Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation a Accounting basis The consolidated financial statements of Aldermore Group PLC the Company and its subsidiary undertakings together, the Group include its principal subsidiary, Aldermore Bank PLC the Bank.
Both the Group consolidated financial statements and the Company financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and as adopted by the European Union EU.
For IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement the exclusion regarding hedge accounting the so-called carve out decreed by the EU on 19 November 2014 is taken into account.
By including the Company financial statements here together with the Group consolidated financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
The principal activity of the Company is that of an investment holding company.
Note on rounding In preparing the 2015 financial statements, the 2014 comparative numbers were restated from the original thousands to millions to one decimal place.
As a result of rounding issues arising from this change, the presentation of some of the comparative numbers may differ slightly to the 2014 financial statements.
All percentage movements as shown in the document are calculated using underlying figures.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries which are entities controlled by the Company jointly referred to as the Group made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved when the Company: Has power over the investee Is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee Has the ability to use its power to affect returns The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Uniform accounting policies are applied consistently across the Group.
Intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated upon consolidation.
Securitisation vehicles The Group has securitised certain loans and advances to customers by the transfer of the beneficial interest in such loans to securitisation vehicles see Note 20.
The securitisation enabled the subsequent issue of debt securities by a securitisation vehicle to investors who have the security of the underlying assets as collateral.
The securitisation vehicles are fully consolidated into the Groups accounts as the Group has control as defined above.
The transfer of the beneficial interest in these loans to the securitisation vehicle are not treated as sales by the Group.
The Group continues to recognise these assets within its own statement of financial position after the transfer as it continues to retain substantially all the risks and rewards from the assets.
c Going concern The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group has the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future which has been taken as 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range of information relating to present and future conditions, including the current state of the balance sheet, future projections of profitability, cash flows and capital resources and the longer term strategy of the business.
The Groups capital and liquidity plans, including stress tests, have been reviewed by the Directors.
The Groups forecasts and projections show that it will be able to operate at adequate levels of both liquidity and capital for the foreseeable future, including a range of stressed scenarios.
After making due enquiries, the Directors believe that the Group has sufficient resources to continue its activities for the foreseeable future and to continue its expansion, and the Group has sufficient capital to enable it to continue to meet its regulatory capital requirements as set out by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
142 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices d Basis of measurement The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following material items in the financial statements: Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value through profit or loss Debt securities designated at fair value through profit or loss Available for sale debt securities are valued at fair value through other comprehensive income Fair value adjustments for portfolios of financial assets and financial liabilities designated as hedged items in qualifying fair value hedge relationships, which reflect changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged e Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
Information about areas of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are included in Note 3. f Presentation of risk disclosures The disclosures required under IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures have been included within the audited sections of the Risk Report on page 105.
Where information is marked as audited, It is incorporated into these financial statements by this cross reference and it is covered by the Independent Auditors report on page 133. g Future accounting developments All standards or amendments to existing standards which have been endorsed by the EU and which are available for early adoption for annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2015 have been adopted by the Group.
There are also a number of standards, amendments and interpretations which have been issued by the IASB but which have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The most significant of these is IFRS 9: Financial instruments, the planned replacement for IAS 39: Financial Instruments: recognition and measurement.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets, hedge accounting and the impairment of financial assets.
Under IFRS 9 financial assets are classified and measured based on the business model under which they are held and the characteristics of their contractual cash flows.
In addition, IFRS 9 is replacing the incurred loss approach to impairment of IAS39 with one based on expected losses, and is replacing the rules based hedging requirements of IAS 39 with new requirements that align hedge accounting more closely with risk management activities.
IFRS 9, including the final version of the requirements in respect of impairment, was issued on 24 July 2014.
The IASB has decided to apply IFRS 9 for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 is required to be applied retrospectively, but prior periods need not be restated.
IFRS 9, including its commencement date, will be subject to endorsement by the EU.
In addition, the IASB has commenced a separate project for macro hedging, which is exploring a new way to account for the dynamic risk management of open portfolios and is likely to be of future relevance to the Group.
That project is still at the Discussion Paper stage and as yet the likely final form of any amendments to IFRS 9, or their required implementation date, is not clear.
The adoption of IFRS 9 is expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
Work is ongoing to quantify the impact.
It is not anticipated that changes in approach to impairment would have a significant impact on the Groups impairment provisions in respect of specifically impaired loans, as the current impairment provisions on such loans are based on estimates of expected losses.
In respect of other loans against which collective provisions are raised, our current approach, as explained in Note 3, is to estimate probabilities of default for the next 12 months.
This approach is similar to that which will be required under IFRS 9 except in order to measure incurred losses, as required by IAS 39, management then adjust the calculated 12 month expected loss for an emergence period reflective of the underlying asset enabling management to reflect only the impairment considered to have been incurred at the reporting date.
In addition, for those loans where there has been a credit deterioration, although the loans are not considered to be yet impaired, IFRS 9 will require the recognition of full life expected losses.
Whilst managements current approach to calculating collective impairment provisions as described above has similarities to the approach required under IFRS 9, it should be noted that IFRS 9 is a complex accounting standard and managements detailed modelling approach under IFRS 9 will require further investigation and consideration before implementation.
As described above, under IFRS 9, impairment provisions on all financial assets are recognised based on either 12 month expected losses or lifetime expected losses.
This will result in the acceleration of the recognition of impairment provisions and will lead to more volatile impairment charges in the income statement.
However, whilst IFRS 9 represents a significant change compared to IAS 39, the quantum of impairment losses recorded against any one loan over the life of the loan will not change as IFRS 9 alters only the timing of recognition of the impairment losses.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 143 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Basis of preparation continued The IASB has also issued IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers.
The impact for the Group is currently being assessed.
The Standard will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with retrospective application subject to EU endorsement.
On 13 January 2016, the IASB issued IFRS 16: Leases as a replacement for IAS 17: Leases.
The Standard will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with early application being permitted for companies that also apply IFRS15, subject to EU endorsement.
A significant change will be the inclusion of a right of use asset within the statement of financial position in respect of the benefit the Group receives where it leases assets under operating leases, together with a financial liability in respect of the obligation to make operating lease payments.
Within the income statement, an operating charge will be reflected in respect of the use of the asset together with interest expense in relation to the financing, replacing the current operating lease charges included in administrative expenses.
Significant accounting policies a Interest income and expense Interest income and expense are recognised in the income statement on an effective interest rate EIR basis.
The EIR is the rate that, at the inception of the financial asset or liability, exactly discounts expected future cash payments and receipts over the expected life of the instrument back to the initial carrying amount.
When calculating the EIR, the Group estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms of the instrument for example, prepayment options but does not consider the assets future credit losses.
At each reporting date, management makes an assessment of the expected remaining life of its financial assets, including any acquired loan portfolios, and where there is a change in those assessments the remaining amount of any unamortised discount or premiums is adjusted so that the interest income continues to be recognised prospectively on the amortised cost of the financial asset at the original EIR.
The adjustment arising is recognised within interest income in the income statement for the current period.
The calculation of the EIR includes all transaction costs and fees paid or received that are an integral part of the interest rate, together with the discounts or premium arising on the acquisition of loan portfolios.
Transaction costs include incremental costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of a financial asset or liability.
Interest income and expense presented in the income statement include: Interest on financial assets and financial liabilities measured at amortised cost calculated on an EIR basis Interest on available for sale debt securities calculated on an EIR basis Interest income recognised on finance leases where the Group acts as the lessor see Note 2 o The effective portion of fair value changes in qualifying hedging derivatives designated in fair value hedges of interest rate risk, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk Interest income on financial assets designated at fair value so as to avoid an accounting mismatch with derivatives held as an economic hedge and the matching interest component of the derivative Interest income includes amounts the Group charges its invoice finance clients as interest each day on the balance of their outstanding loans.
This interest income is recognised in the income statement on an EIR basis.
b Fee and commissions and other operating income i.
Fee and commission income Fee and commission income includes fees relating to services provided to customers which do not meet the criteria for inclusion within interest income.
Within the Invoice Finance segment of the Group, customers are charged a factoring fee for managing their sales ledgers.
This fee is recognised within fee and commissions income over the period in which the ledger management service is provided.
Other fee and commission income includes fees charged for mortgage services, arrears, and insurance commission receivable.
Fee income is recognised as the related services are performed.
Arrangement fees and others fees relating to loans and advances to customers are included within interest income as part of the EIR calculation.
Fee and commission expense Fee and commission expense predominantly consists of introducer commissions, legal and valuation fees and company search fees.
Where these fee and commissions are incremental costs that are directly attributable to the issue of a financial instrument, they are included in interest income as part of the EIR calculation.
Where they are not incremental costs that are directly attributable they are recognised within fee and commission expense as the services are received.
144 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices iii.
Other operating income Other operating income predominantly arises from the provision of invoice finance services and includes disbursements and collect out income.
This income is recognised within other operating income when the service is provided.
c Net income from derivatives and other financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Net income from derivatives and other financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss relates to non trading derivatives held for risk management purposes that do not form part of a qualifying hedging arrangement and financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss.
It includes all realised and unrealised fair value changes, interest and foreign exchange differences, with the exception of interest income on financial assets designated at fair value and the matching interest component of the hedging derivatives.
The assets designated at fair value are treated in this manner so as to avoid an accounting mismatch with derivatives held as an economic hedge.
d Financial instruments recognition and derecognition i.
Recognition The Group initially recognises loans and advances, amounts due to banks, customer accounts and subordinated notes issued on the date that they are originated.
Regular way purchases and sales of debt securities and derivatives are recognised on the trade date at which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
All other financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised on the trade date at which the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Derecognition Financial assets are derecognised when they are qualifying transfers and: The rights to receive cash flows from the assets have ceased: or The Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets When a financial asset is derecognised in its entirety, the difference between the carrying amount, the sum of the consideration received including any new asset obtained less any new liability assumed and any cumulative gain or loss, that had been recognised in other comprehensive income, is recognised in the income statement.
When available for sale financial assets are derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss, including that previously recognised in reserves, is recognised in the income statement.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Any difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability derecognised and the consideration paid is recognised through the income statement.
Funding for Lending Scheme FLS Loans and advances over which the Group transfers its rights to the collateral thereon to the Bank of England under the FLS are not derecognised from the statement of financial position, as the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, including all cash flows arising from the loans and advances and exposure to credit risk.
The treasury bills that the Group borrows against the transferred assets are not recognised in the statement of financial position, but where they are sold to third parties by the Group under agreements to repurchase, the cash received is recognised as an asset within the statement of financial position together with the corresponding obligation to return it which is recognised as a liability at amortised cost within Amounts due to banks.
Interest is accrued over the life of the agreement on an EIR basis.
e Financial assets i. Overview The Group classifies its financial assets excluding derivatives as either: Loans and receivables Available for sale Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss ii.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and that the Group does not intend to sell immediately or in the near term.
These are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the financial asset.
Subsequently, these are measured at amortised cost using the EIR method.
The amortised cost is the amount advanced less principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the EIR method of any difference between the amount advanced and the maturity amount less impairment provisions for incurred losses.
Loans and receivables mainly comprise loans and advances to banks and customers.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 145 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued iii.
Available for sale Available for sale financial assets are debt securities that are not held for trading and are intended to be held for an indefinite period of time.
Subsequently, they are measured at fair value based on current quoted bid prices in active markets for identical assets that the Group can access at the reporting date.
Where there is no active market or the debt securities are unlisted, the fair values are based on valuation techniques including discounted cash flow analysis, with reference to relevant market rates, and other commonly used valuation techniques.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement using the EIR method.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Other fair value changes are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the available for sale reserve in equity.
On disposal, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is reclassified to the income statement.
Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss are assets which have been designated as such to eliminate or significantly reduce a measurement and recognition inconsistency or where management specifically manages an asset or liability on that basis.
These assets are measured at fair value based on current quoted bid prices in active markets for identical assets that the Group can access at the reporting date.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are brought into the income statement within Net income expense from derivatives and other financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss as they arise.
The Group disposed of all of its financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss during the year.
f Financial liabilities i. Overview Financial liabilities are contractual obligations to deliver cash or another financial asset.
Financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs for financial liabilities other than derivatives.
Financial liabilities, other than derivatives, are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Financial liabilities at amortised cost Financial liabilities at amortised cost are recognised initially at fair value, which equates to issue proceeds net of transaction costs incurred.
They are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the EIR.
Subordinated notes Subordinated notes issued by the Group are assessed as to whether they should be treated as equity or financial liabilities.
Where there is a contractual obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets, they are treated as a financial liability and measured at amortised cost using the EIR method after taking account of any discount or premium on the issue and directly attributable costs that are an integral part of the EIR.
The amount of any discount or premium is amortised over the period to the expected call date of the instrument.
All subordinated notes issued by the Group are classified as financial liabilities.
The warrants attached to the subordinated notes, which gave the holders the right to subscribe for shares in Aldermore Group PLC the Parent Company, were included in equity as a warrant reserve at the residual value attributable to the warrants, after deducting from the face value of the instrument, as a whole, the amounts determined separately as the fair value of the subordinated notes at the date of issue.
All the warrants were exercised during the year as described in Note 35. g Impairment financial assets i.
Assessment At each reporting date the Group assesses its financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss as to whether there is objective evidence that the assets are impaired.
Objective evidence that financial assets are impaired may include: Significant financial difficulty of the borrower A breach of contract such as default or delinquency in interest or principal repayments The granting of a concession for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers financial condition that the Group would not otherwise grant Indications that a borrower or issuer will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation The disappearance of an active market for a debt security because of the issuers financial difficulties National or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults within groups of financial assets e. g. increases in unemployment rates or decreases in property prices relating to the collateral held The Group considers evidence for the impairment of loans and advances at both the individual asset and collective level.
In certain cases where a borrower is experiencing significant financial distress, the Group may use forbearance measures to assist them and mitigate against default.
Any forbearance measures agreed are assessed on a case by case basis.
146 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices ii.
Scope The Group considers evidence of impairment of financial assets at both an individual asset and collective level.
Individual impairment All individually significant financial assets are assessed for individual impairment using a range of risk criteria.
Those found not to be individually impaired are then collectively assessed for any impairment that has been incurred but not yet identified.
Assets are considered to be individually impaired where they meet one or more of the following criteria: A default position equivalent to 3 or more missed monthly repayments or a quarterly payment which is over 30 days past due Litigation proceedings have commenced Act of insolvency, e. g. bankruptcy, administration or liquidation, or appointment of an LPA Receiver Invoice finance accounts are classified as in default when there is cessation of additional advances and or when the facility is in collect out Where there is evidence of fraud Collective impairment All financial assets that are not found to be individually impaired are collectively assessed for impairment by grouping together financial assets with similar risk characteristics.
Measurement Impairment provisions on financial assets individually identified as impaired are calculated as the difference between the carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the assets original EIR.
When assessing collective impairment, the Group estimates incurred losses using a statistical model which multiplies the probability of default PD for each class of customer using external credit rating information by the loss given default LGD multiplied by the estimated exposure at default EaD to arrive at the projected expected loss.
An emergence period is subsequently applied to the projected expected loss to determine the estimated level of incurred losses at each reporting date.
In addition an adjustment is made to discount the imputed cash flows from the model at the assets original EIR to arrive at the recorded collective provisions.
The models results are adjusted for managements judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that actual losses are likely to differ from those suggested by historical modelling.
In assessing the level of collective impairment provisions, the Group uses statistical modelling of historical trends of probability of default, the timing of recoveries and the amount of loss incurred, adjusted for managements judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that actual losses are likely to be greater or less than suggested by historical trends.
Default rates, loss rates and the expected timing of future recoveries are benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement and a corresponding reduction in the value of the financial asset is recognised through the use of an allowance account.
A write-off is made when all or part of a financial asset is deemed uncollectible or forgiven after all collection procedures have been completed and the amount of the loss has been determined.
Write-offs are charged against amounts previously reflected in the allowance account or directly to the income statement.
Any additional amounts recovered after a financial asset has been previously written off are offset against the write-off charge in the income statement once they are received.
Allowances for impairment losses are released at the point when it is deemed that, following a subsequent event, the risk has reduced such that an allowance is no longer required.
Interest on impaired financial assets is recognised at the same EIR as applied at the initial recognition of the financial asset but applied to the book value of the financial asset net of any individual impairment allowances that have been raised.
Impairment of financial assets classified as available for sale Impairment losses on available for sale debt securities are recognised by reclassifying the losses accumulated in the available for sale reserve in equity to the income statement.
The cumulative loss that is reclassified from equity to the income statement is the difference between the acquisition cost, net of any principal repayment and amortisation, and the current fair value, less any impairment loss recognised previously in the income statement.
Changes in impairment provisions attributable to the effective interest method are reflected as a component of interest income.
If in a subsequent period the fair value of an impaired available for sale debt security increases and the increase can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, then the impairment loss is reversed.
h Financial instruments fair value measurement Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date in the principal, or in its absence, the most advantageous market to which the Group has access at that date.
The fair value of a liability reflects its non performance risk.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 147 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued When applicable, the Group measures the fair value of an instrument using the quoted price in an active market for that instrument.
A market is regarded as active if transactions for the asset or liability take place with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing on an ongoing basis.
When there is no quoted price in an active market, the Group uses valuation techniques that maximise the use of relevant observable inputs and minimises the use of unobservable inputs.
The chosen valuation techniques incorporate all the factors that market participants would take into account in pricing a transaction.
The best evidence of fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is normally the transaction price i. e. the fair value of the consideration received or given.
If an asset measured at fair value has a bid and an offer price, the Group measures assets and long positions at a bid price and liabilities at an offer price.
i Derivative financial instruments The Group enters into derivative transactions only for the purpose of reducing exposures to fluctuations in interest rates, exchange rates and market indices: they are not used for proprietary trading purposes.
Derivatives are carried at fair value with movements in fair values recorded in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments are principally valued by discounted cash flow models using yield curves that are based on observable market data or are based on valuations obtained from counterparties.
As the Groups derivatives are covered by master netting agreements with the Groups counterparties, with any net exposures then being further covered by the payment or receipt of periodic cash margins, the Group has used a risk free discount rate for the determination of their fair values.
All derivatives are classified as assets where their fair value is positive and liabilities where their fair value is negative.
Where there is the current legal ability and intention to settle net, then the derivative is classified as a net asset or liability, as appropriate.
Where cash collateral is received, to mitigate the risk inherent in amounts due to the Group, it is included as a liability within Amounts due to banks.
Where cash collateral is given, to mitigate the risk inherent in amounts due from the Group, it is included as an asset in Loans and advances to banks.
j Hedge accounting The Group designates certain derivatives held for risk management as hedging instruments in qualifying hedging relationships.
On initial designation of the hedge, the Group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instruments and hedged items, including the risk management objective, the strategy in undertaking the hedge and the method that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship.
The Group makes an assessment both at the inception of the hedge relationship as well as on an ongoing basis, as to whether the hedging instruments are expected to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in the fair value of the respective hedged items during the period for which the hedge is designated.
Fair value hedge accounting for portfolio hedges of interest rate risk The Group applies fair value hedge accounting for portfolio hedges of interest rate risk.
As part of its risk management process, the Group identifies portfolios whose interest rate risk it wishes to hedge.
The portfolios comprise either only assets or only liabilities.
The Group analyses each portfolio into repricing time periods based on expected repricing dates, by scheduling cash flows into the periods in which they are expected to occur.
Using this analysis, the Group designates as the hedged item an amount of the assets or liabilities from each portfolio that it wishes to hedge.
The Group measures monthly the change in fair value of the portfolio relating to the interest rate risk that is being hedged.
Provided that the hedge has been highly effective, the Group recognises the change in fair value of each hedged item in the income statement with the cumulative movement in their value being shown on the statement of financial position as a separate item, Fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk, either within assets or liabilities as appropriate.
This amount is amortised on a straightline basis to the income statement over the remaining average life of the original hedge relationship, from the month in which it is first recognised.
The Group measures the fair value of each hedging instrument monthly.
The value is included in derivative financial instruments in either assets or liabilities as appropriate, with the change in value recorded in the income statement.
Any hedge ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement as the difference between the change in fair value of the hedged item and the change in fair value of the hedging instrument.
k Embedded derivatives A derivative may be embedded in another instrument, known as the host contract.
Where the economic characteristics and risks of an embedded derivative are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value through profit or loss, the embedded derivative is separated from the host and held on the statement of financial position with Derivatives held for risk management at fair value.
Movements in fair value are posted to the income statement, whilst the host contract is accounted for according to the relevant accounting policy for that particular asset or liability.
148 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Embedded derivatives contained within equity instruments are considered separately.
The embedded derivative on the contingent convertible securities is not separated as the Group has an accounting policy not to separate a feature that has already been considered in determining that the entire issue is a non-derivative equity instrument.
l Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost on transition to IFRSs, less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset or costs incurred in bringing the asset to use.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, at rates calculated to write-off the cost of each asset to realisable values on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Fixtures, fittings and equipment five years Computer hardware one to five years Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as part of that equipment.
Goodwill Goodwill is stated at deemed cost upon transition to IFRSs, less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment on an annual basis.
Where impairment is required, the amount is recognised in the income statement and cannot be subsequently reversed.
Computer systems Software acquired by the Group is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Expenditure on internally developed software is recognised as an asset when the Group is able to demonstrate its intention and ability to complete the development and use the software in a manner that will generate future economic benefits, and can reliably measure the costs to complete the development.
The capitalised costs of internally developed software include all costs directly attributable to developing the software, and are amortised over its useful life.
Internally developed software is stated at capitalised cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Software is amortised on a straight-line basis in the income statement over its useful life, from the date that it is available for use.
The estimated useful life of software is one to five years.
n Impairment of non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets are reviewed at least annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, then the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Goodwill Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to operating segments.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of a segment is less than its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of a segment is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
Value in use is calculated from forecasts by management of post tax profits for the subsequent five years, and a residual value, discounted at a risk adjusted interest rate appropriate to the cash generating unit.
Fair value is determined through review of precedent transactions for comparable businesses.
Intangible assets If impairment is indicated, the assets recoverable amount being the greater of value in use and fair value less costs to sell is estimated.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the future cash flows from continuing use of the asset.
If the carrying value of the asset is less than the greater of the value in use and the fair value less costs to sell, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
o Assets leased to customers Leases of assets to customers are finance leases as defined by IAS17.
When assets are leased to customers under finance leases, the present value of the lease payments is recognised as a receivable.
The difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the receivable is recognised as unearned finance income.
Lease income is recognised, within interest income in the income statement, over the term of the lease using the net investment method before tax which reflects a constant periodic rate of return ignoring tax cash flows.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 149 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued p Assets leased from third parties Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the lessor, are charged to the income statement, within administrative expenses or staff costs in the case of company cars, on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
The Group holds no assets under finance leases.
q Provisions A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
The Group has an obligation to contribute to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS to enable the FSCS to meet compensation claims from, in particular, retail depositors of failed banks.
A provision is recognised to the extent it can be reliably estimated and when the Group has an obligation in accordance with IAS 37.
The amount provided is based on information received from the FSCS, forecast future interest rates and the Groups historic share of industry protected deposits.
The FSCS provision is recognised at the commencement of the scheme year in line with IFRIC 21. r Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling using the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences are charged or credited to the income statement.
s Taxation Taxation comprises current and deferred tax, and is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on taxable income or loss for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is not recognised for: Temporary differences on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss Temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future Taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill The measurement of deferred tax reflects the tax consequences that would follow the manner in which the Group expects at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax is measured using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
t Pension costs The cost of providing retirement benefits is charged to the income statement at the amount of the defined contributions payable for each year.
Differences between contributions payable and those actually paid are shown as accruals or prepayments.
The Group has no defined benefit pension scheme.
Capital instruments The Company classifies capital instruments as financial liabilities or equity instruments in accordance with the substance of the contractual terms of the instruments.
Where an instrument contains no obligation on the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets, or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group, or where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments but includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments, then it treated as an equity instrument.
Accordingly, the Companys share capital and contingent convertible securities are presented as components of equity within shareholders funds.
Any dividends, interest or other distributions on capital instruments are recognised in equity.
Any related tax is accounted for in accordance with IAS 12.
150 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices ii.
Share premium Share premium is the amount by which the fair value of the consideration received exceeds the nominal value of the shares issued.
v Capital raising costs Costs directly incremental to the raising of share capital are netted against the share premium account.
Costs directly incremental to the raising of convertible securities included in equity are offset against the proceeds from the issue within equity.
w Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and balances with a maturity of three months or less from the acquisition date, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
x Investment in group undertakings Investments in group undertakings are initially recognised at cost.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made as to whether there is any indication that the investment may be impaired.
If such an indication exists, the Company estimates the investments recoverable amount.
The investment is written down to the recoverable amount if this is lower than its carrying value.
The impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
y Warrants The Companys subsidiary, Aldermore Bank PLC, previously issued subordinated notes with attached warrants.
The warrants gave the holders the right to subscribe for shares in the Company.
These warrants were exercised during the year resulting in an increase in share capital and share premium.
On the exercise of the warrants, the warrant reserve was re-classified to retained earnings.
z Share-based payment transactions Employees including Senior Executives of the Group may receive remuneration in the form of equity settled share-based payment transactions to reward strong long-term business performance and to incentivise growth for the future.
The grant date fair value is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards.
The grant date fair value is determined using valuation models which take into account the terms and conditions attached to the awards.
Inputs into valuation models may include the risk free interest rate, the expected volatility of the Companys share price and other various factors which relate to performance conditions attached to the awards.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards for which the related service and nonmarket vesting conditions are expected to be met such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date.
For share-based payment awards with market performance conditions or non-vesting conditions the grant date fair value of the share-based payment is measured to reflect such conditions and there is no true-up for differences between expected and actual outcomes.
Within the Parent Company stand alone financial statements the share-based payment transactions are recognised as an investment in Group undertakings with an associated credit to the share-based payment reserve.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial information requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The judgements and assumptions that are considered to be the most important to the portrayal of the Groups financial condition are those relating to loan impairment provisions, EIRs, deferred tax, share-based payments and Invoice Finance goodwill.
a Loan impairment provisions Loan portfolios across all segments of the Group are reviewed on at least a monthly basis to assess for impairment.
In determining whether an impairment provision should be recorded, judgements are made as to whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or portfolio of financial assets is impaired as a result of loss events that occurred after recognition of the asset and by the reporting date.
The calculation of impairment loss is managements best estimate of losses incurred in the portfolio at the balance sheet date and reflects expected future cash flows based on both the likelihood of a loan or advance being written off and the estimated loss on such a write-off.
At 31 December 2015, gross loans and advances to customers totalled 6,165.5 million 31 December 2014: 4,823.6 million against which impairment allowances of 20.7 million 31 December 2014: 22.5 million had been made see Note 20.
The Groups accounting policy for loan impairment provisions on financial assets classified as loans and receivables is described in Note2 g. Impairment allowances are made up of two components, those determined individually against specific assets and those determined collectively.
Of the impairment allowance of 20.7 million at 31 December 2015, 10.2 million 31 December 2014: 14.0 million relates to individual provisions and 10.5 million 31 December 2014: 8.5 million relates to collective provisions.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 151 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Use of estimates and judgements continued The section below provides details of the critical elements of judgement within the loan impairment calculations.
Less significant judgements are not disclosed.
Individual Individual impairment allowances are established against the Groups individually significant financial assets that are deemed by management to be impaired.
The determination of individual impairment allowances requires the exercise of considerable judgement by management involving matters such as local economic conditions, the financial status of the customer and the realisable value of the security held.
The actual amount of the future cash flows and their timing may differ significantly from the assumptions made for the purposes of determining the impairment allowances and consequently these allowances can be subject to variation as time progresses and the circumstances of the customer become clearer.
Collective The collective impairment allowance is also subject to estimation uncertainty and in particular is sensitive to changes in economic and credit conditions, including the interdependency of house prices, unemployment rates, interest rates, borrowers behaviour and consumer bankruptcy trends.
All of these factors can influence the key assumptions detailed below.
It is, however, inherently difficult to estimate how changes in one or more of these factors might impact the collective impairment allowance.
The key assumptions used in the collective model are: probability of default PD, the loss given default LGD and the loss emergence period EP the time between a trigger event occurring and the loans being identified as individually impaired.
An additional element is included within the collective provision to reflect fraud losses that are incurred as at the reporting date but are yet to be individually identified.
The Group uses two types of underlying models to calculate the LGD, depending on the availability of default data.
For the mortgage businesses, the models use a range of key assumptions to derive an expected LGD.
The key assumptions are based on management expertise and are validated against available data.
For Asset Finance and Invoice Finance, the models are empirical based models which mainly use past lost data to determine the risk drivers behind the loss.
This allows the portfolios to be segmented into homogenous buckets to derive an LGD.
Further details in respect of assumptions and details of the sensitivity of the estimate to changes in significant assumptions are as follows: iii.
Probability of default The PD is based on external individual customer credit rating information, sourced from an external credit bureau, updated for each reporting date.
This external credit rating information gives a PD in the next 12 months where default is defined as loans which are 2 months or more in arrears 2 MIA and incorporates credit information from a broad range of financial services products for each customer.
Management make an estimate so as to adjust the external data to reflect both the individual nature of the Groups lending and the Groups policy of classifying loans which are 3 months or more in arrears 3 MIA as impaired.
This adjustment is achieved by using two management assumptions: firstly a conversion rate that reflects how many of the loans which fall into 2 MIA will also fall into 3 MIA: and secondly a scalar that adjusts the external PDs to reflect the individual nature of the Groups lending.
A 10 per cent absolute increase in the conversion rate assumed by management between 2 MIA and 3 MIA e. g. a PD increasing from 50 per cent to 60 per cent, when the loans are considered to be individually impaired would increase the impairment allowance by 0.3 million A 10 per cent relative worsening of the scaling factors applied to external data in order to arrive at PDs appropriate to the individual nature of lending being undertaken would increase the impairment allowance by 0.6 million iv.
Loss given default The model calculates the LGD from the point of repossession.
Not all cases that are 3 MIA will reach repossession.
Management therefore adjust the model by applying an assumption of the percentage of accounts 3 MIA that will reach repossession.
A 10 per cent absolute reduction in this assumption would decrease the impairment allowance by 0.3 million The LGD is also sensitive to the application of the House Price Index HPI and Forced Sale Discount FSD which affect the underlying value of the collateral which is expected to be received A 10 per cent relative reduction in the HPI would increase the overall impairment allowance by 1.3 million A 5 per cent absolute increase in the FSD would increase the overall impairment provision by 1.0 million The above assumptions are important factors when calculating the LGD to be applied for the mortgage business.
For the Asset Finance and Invoice Finance model, the assumption with most judgement is the absolute LGD value calculated.
A 10 per cent relative increase in the LGDs used would increase the overall impairment allowance by 0.6 million v. Emergence period The Groups collective models estimate the expected losses for the next 12 months, which are then scaled back to reflect the level of incurred loss as at the reporting date, using the emergence period.
The emergence period is the time taken from the trigger event such as a job loss to the Group identifying the loan is impaired.
The emergence period varies by business line and requires management to make judgements because of the limited data available.
A three-month increase in all emergence periods would increase the overall impairment allowance by 3.6 million.
152 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices b Effective interest rate IAS 39 requires interest earned from mortgages to be measured under the EIR method.
Management must therefore use judgement to estimate the expected life of each type of instrument and hence the expected cash flows relating to it.
The accuracy of the EIR would therefore be affected by unexpected market movements resulting in altered customer behaviour, inaccuracies in the models used compared to actual outcomes and incorrect assumptions.
A critical estimate in determining EIR is the expected life to maturity of the Groups commercial, Buy-to-Let and residential mortgage portfolios, as a change in the estimates will have an impact on the period over which the directly attributable costs and fees, and any discount received on the acquisition of the mortgage loan portfolios, are recognised.
As at 31 December 2015 a reassessment was made of the estimates used in respect of the expected lives of the commercial, Buy-toLet and residential mortgage portfolios and also of those for the asset finance portfolios.
As a consequence an overall adjustment of 0.4 million was recorded to increase the value of the loan portfolios and the interest income recognised in the current period, so that interest can continue to be recognised at the original effective the interest rate over the remaining life of the relevant lending portfolios.
The adjustment made at 31 December is analysed as follows: Impact on 2015 interest income m Asset Finance organic lending 1.6 SME Commercial acquired portfolios 0.7 SME Commercial organic lending 0.9 Buy-to-Let acquired portfolios 0.6 Buy-to-Let organic portfolios 0.1 Residential acquired portfolios 1.1 Residential organic lending 5.2 0.4 A change in the estimated expected lives, after taking account of the above adjustment, to extend the expected lives of the commercial, Buy-to-Let and residential portfolios by six months would have the effect of reducing the cumulative profit before tax recognised as at 31 December 2015 by 1.5 million 31 December 2014: 2.4 million.
Included within this sensitivity of 1.5 million, is a 2.8 million cumulative reduction in profit relating to acquired portfolios 31 December 2014: 2.9 million due to a change in the unwind of the discount which is offset by a 1.3 million cumulative increase in profit relating to the organic portfolios 31 December 2014: 0.5 million.
A 0.1 per cent increase in the rate of early redemptions, expressed as a percentage of the outstanding balance in respect of asset finance portfolios would have the impact of reducing cumulative profit before tax recognised as at 31 December 2015 by 0.3 million 31 December 2014: 0.2 million.
c Deferred tax Taxation involves estimation techniques to assess the liability in terms of possible outcomes.
The assessment of the recoverability or otherwise of deferred tax assets is based mainly on a determination of whether sufficient profits will be generated within five years to realise deferred tax assets.
This is reviewed at each reporting date with a detailed exercise conducted to establish the validity of profit forecasts and other information including timescales over which the profits are expected to arise and the deferred tax assets will reverse.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date and which are expected to apply when the related deferred tax assets are realised.
The judgement required in the assessment of whether to recognise a deferred tax asset is set out in Note 2 s. The Group estimates that even after reasonably possible changes in the profit forecasts, the Group would have sufficient profits against which to realise the deferred tax assets.
Based on the analysis of the timing and level of reversal of existing taxable temporary differences, management conclude that a net deferred tax asset of 16.4 million should be recognised at the balance sheet date.
d Share-based payments The fair value of the share awards is calculated using statistical models.
The inputs to these models require management judgement to estimate the probability and timings of events taking place in the future.
The significant inputs used in the models include the exercise price, share price, expected volatility, expected life and the risk free rate.
The share-based payment recognised can be materially affected by these assumptions.
Further information on the key assumptions can be found in Note 36.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 153 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Use of estimates and judgements continued e Invoice Finance goodwill At 31 December 2015, the Group held goodwill balances totalling 12.6 million, 8.5 million of which is attributable to the SME Commercial Mortgages segment, with the remaining balance of 4.1 million attributable to the Invoice Finance segment.
IAS 36 requires an assessment of goodwill balances for impairment on at least an annual basis.
An impairment charge should be recognised where the recoverable amount from the segment is less than the carrying value of the goodwill.
The recoverable amount is the greater of either the Value in Use VIU of a business or its Fair Value less Costs of Disposal FVLCD.
VIU is determined by discounting the future cash flows forecasted to be generated from the continuing use of the segment and requires judgement to be applied, specifically in relation to the assumptions used within the discounted future cash flow calculation.
FVLCD is defined as the price that would be expected to be received if sold in an orderly transaction between market participants and equally requires judgement to be applied, specifically in assessing comparable transactions in order to derive a fair value.
Management has considered both methods for calculating the recoverable amount.
The VIU calculation is sensitive to key inputs into the calculation, including the forecasted future cash flows and the discount rate applied.
During 2015 the business was refocused and management revised their projections for the business while the impact of this is being assessed.
Using these updated projections, under the VIU method, the goodwill relating to the Invoice Finance business of 4.1 million would be fully impaired, although management note a reasonably small change in the key assumptions would result in the goodwill balance being supportable.
Management has determined the FVLCD by reviewing recent transactions for similar businesses and applying the Price Tangible Book Value ratio from those transactions to the Aldermore Invoice Finance business.
Management have performed an exercise to assess the comparability of the businesses involved in recent transactions with the Aldermore Invoice Finance business.
Before relying on the market value, analysis has been performed to understand the differing valuations produced by both the FVLCD and VIU methods.
Management believe that the Price Tangible Book Value ratio is the most appropriate Fair Value methodology to use but note that applying an alternative Price Earnings methodology also supports the goodwill balance.
After considering the above, management has concluded it is appropriate to use FVLCD and therefore are satisfied that the goodwill balance of 4.1 million in relation to the Invoice Finance segment is supportable.
The estimated value would be required to fall approximately 25 per cent before the goodwill balance would be fully impaired.
Segmental information The Group has five reportable operating segments as described below which are based on the Groups five lending segments plus Central Functions.
Each segment offers groups of similar products and services and are managed separately based on the Groups internal reporting structure.
In the prior period, the Group had four reportable operating segments.
In late 2015, the Group concluded that it was necessary to split out the Buy-to-Let segment from SME Commercial and Residential Mortgages segments, where it was previously reported.
This split ensures a closer alignment to the Groups evolving operating model and greater transparency over the Buy-to-Let segmental results.
The prior year comparatives have been re-presented on the new basis.
Residential Mortgages, SME Commercial mortgages and Buy-to-Let are operated under a single management team and supported by a single IT platform.
Shared administrative expenses in the mortgages business have been apportioned across these segments on the basis of business activity levels in each segment.
However, the characteristics of the three businesses are sufficiently different and accordingly the segments are reported separately to the Board.
Therefore, the three businesses represent separate operating segments in accordance with IFRS 8.
For each of the reportable segments the Board, which is the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker, reviews internal management reports on a monthly basis.
The following summary describes the operations in each of the Groups reportable segments: Asset Finance Lease and hire purchase financing for SMEs, focusing on sectors with strong returns and liquid secondary asset markets.
Invoice Finance Provides UK SMEs with working capital solutions through invoice discounting, factoring and asset based lending.
SME Commercial Mortgages Property finance needs of professional, commercial property investors, and owner-occupier SMEs.
Targets prime and specialist prime segments with loan sizes generally below 5 million.
Buy-to-Let Offers a wide range of standard and specialist Buy-to-Let mortgages for residential units, multi-unit freehold or houses with multiple occupation HMO to both individuals and companies.
Residential Mortgages Prime residential mortgages targeting underserved segments of creditworthy borrowers that provide attractive and sustainable margins.
154 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Central Functions include the reconciling items between the total of the five reportable operating segments and the consolidated income statement.
As well as common costs, Central Functions includes the Groups Treasury and Savings functions which are responsible for raising finance on behalf of the operating segments.
The costs of raising finance are all recharged by Central Functions to operating segments, apart from those costs relating to the subordinated notes Note 6 and the net expense income from derivatives held at fair value.
Common costs are incurred on behalf of the operating segments and typically represent savings administration costs, back office costs and support function costs such as Finance, Risk and Human Resources.
The costs are not directly attributable to the operating segments.
Information regarding the results of each reportable segment and their reconciliation to the total results of the Group are included below.
Performance is measured based on the segmental result as included in the internal management reports.
Segmental information for the year ended 31 December 2015 SME Asset Invoice Commercial Residential Central Finance Finance Mortgages Buy-to-Let Mortgages Functions Total m m m m m m m Interest income external customers 75.7 7.6 44.8 111.0 66.4 5.1 300.4 Interest expense external customers 101.5 101.5 Interest expense income internal 23.9 2.3 10.6 37.7 22.6 97.1 Net fees and other income external customers 4.3 15.2 0.8 3.0 2.2 0.3 25.8 Total operating income 56.1 20.5 35.0 76.3 46.0 9.2 224.7 Administrative expenses including depreciation and amortisation 12.0 14.5 4.8 9.0 5.1 74.2 119.6 Impairment losses on loans and advances to customers 4.8 1.5 2.0 1.3 0.8 10.4 Segmental result 39.3 4.5 28.2 66.0 40.1 83.4 94.7 Tax 16.4 Profit after tax 78.3 Assets 1,346.7 160.8 829.2 2,417.9 1,390.2 863.7 7,008.5 Liabilities 6,474.9 6,474.9 Net assets liabilities 1,346.7 160.8 829.2 2,417.9 1,390.2 5,611.2 533.6 Segmental information for the year ended 31 December 2014 SME Asset Invoice Commercial Residential Central 1 1 Finance Finance Mortgages Buy-to-Let Mortgages Functions Total m m m m m m m Interest income external customers 56.7 9.3 37.0 91.6 34.5 1.3 227.8 Interest expense external customers 87.6 87.6 Interest expense income internal 19.8 3.3 9.5 34.3 14.3 81.2 Net fees and other income external customers 3.1 17.5 1.1 2.9 1.7 1.5 24.8 Total operating income 40.0 23.5 28.6 60.2 21.9 9.2 165.0 Administrative expenses including depreciation and amortisation 11.9 14.7 3.0 9.3 4.1 62.1 105.1 Impairment losses on loans and advances to customers 2.7 3.4 3.0 0.3 0.8 9.6 Segmental result 25.4 5.4 22.6 51.2 17.0 71.3 50.3 Tax 11.9 Profit after tax 38.4 Assets 1,044.3 180.6 552.4 2,044.1 979.7 764.1 5,565.2 Liabilities 5,186.3 5,186.3 Net assets liabilities 1,044.3 180.6 552.4 2,044.1 979.7 4,422.2 378.9 1 A 1.6 million write-off in relation to an Asset Finance intangible asset has been recorded within Central Functions as the asset was under construction at the time of write-off.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 155 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Interest income 2015 2014 m m On financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss: On loans and advances to customers 305.4 227.8 On loans and advances to banks 0.7 1.5 On debt securities 11.1 5.1 317.2 234.4 On financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: Net interest expense on financial instruments hedging assets 18.5 12.1 Net interest income on debt securities designated at fair value 1.7 5.5 300.4 227.8 Included within interest income on loans and advances to customers for the year ended 31 December 2015 is a total of 3.2 million 31 December 2014: 2.0 million relating to impaired financial advances.
Included within net interest expense on financial instruments hedging assets are fair value gains of 2.7 million 31 December 2014: loss of 8.8 million on derivatives held in qualifying fair value hedging arrangements, together with losses of 6.1 million 31 December 2014: gains of 7.2 million representing changes in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged interest rate risk on loans and advances to customers.
Interest expense 2015 2014 m m On financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss: On customers accounts 91.6 80.0 On amounts due to banks 2.8 1.5 On debt securities in issue 3.5 3.3 On subordinated notes 6.5 6.4 104.4 91.2 On financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Net interest income on financial instruments hedging liabilities 4.5 4.8 Other 1.6 1.2 101.5 87.6 Included within net interest income on financial instruments hedging liabilities are fair value losses of 1.8 million 31 December 2014: gains of 1.6 million on derivatives held in qualifying fair value hedging arrangements, together with gains of 2.3 million 31 December 2014: losses of 1.5 million representing changes in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged interest rate risk on customers accounts.
Fee and commission income 2015 2014 m m Invoice finance fees 12.6 14.5 Valuation fees 4.1 4.4 Documentation fees 3.2 2.5 Other fees 5.3 5.0 25.2 26.4 Details of Other fee and commission income are provided in Note 2 b.
156 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices 8.
Fee and commission expense 2015 2014 m m Introducer commissions 1.7 1.9 Legal and valuation fees 2.7 2.5 Company searches and other fees 1.6 1.8 Credit protection and insurance charges 0.8 1.2 Other 0.2 0.4 7.0 7.8 9.
N et expense from derivatives and other financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 2015 2014 m m Net gains losses on derivatives 5.0 17.3 Net losses gains on assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 0.2 9.1 Net losses gains on available for sale assets held in fair value hedges 6.9 4.1 2.1 4.1 10.
Other operating income 2015 2014 m m Disbursements, collect out and other invoice finance income 6.4 7.1 Other 1.0 0.3 7.4 7.4 11.
Administrative expenses 1 2015 2014 Note m m Staff costs 12 62.1 50.0 Legal and professional and other services 25.8 23.5 Information technology costs 7.3 8.3 Office costs 4.9 4.0 Provisions 32 2.3 3.6 Other 11.9 11.8 114.3 101.2 1 The prior year comparatives have been re-presented to reclassify 0.6 million relating to share-based payments, from Other to Staff costs.
Included in other administrative expenses are costs relating to temporary staff of 5.0 million 31 December 2014: 4.5 million, travel and subsistence of 3.2 million 31 December 2014: 2.8 million and staff recruitment of 1.6 million 31 December 2014: 2.1 million.
Information technology costs for the year ended 31 December 2014 included 1.6 million in relation to a write-off of intangible assets.
Costs associated with the IPO Included within administrative expenses for the year is 4.1 million 31 December 2014: 6.0 million of costs associated with the IPO.
The 4.1 million consists of 0.4 million for a one-off share award to employees and 3.7 million for fees associated with listing.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issuance of capital, including advisory and underwriting fees, have been charged directly to equity.
Other costs associated with the listing have been allocated between administrative expenses and equity, based on the proportion of new shares issued in the IPO compared to the total number of shares.
Total costs associated with the listing for the year ended 31 December 2015 are 6.8 million, comprising 4.1 million charged to the income statement and 2.7 million charged to equity.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 157 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Staff costs 2015 2014 m m Wages and salaries 50.8 43.2 Social security costs 6.2 5.0 Other pension costs 1.6 1.2 Share-based payments 3.5 0.6 62.1 50.0 The analysis above includes staff costs in relation to Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year, excluding Non-Executive Directors, was 845 31 December 2014: 757.
Remuneration of Directors 2015 2014 000 000 Directors emoluments 2,639.4 2,797.0 Payments in respect of personal pension plans 26.5 24.0 Compensation for loss of office 20.0 Contributions to money purchase scheme 20.9 61.0 Loan forgiveness 139.6 Long-term incentive schemes 7,784.3 555.0 10,610.7 3,457.0 The above disclosure is prepared in accordance with schedule 5 of the Accounting Regulations.
Compensation for loss of office in 2014 of 20,000 relates to two Directors.
Loan forgiveness From 1 January 2015 until admission to the LSE a number of Directors had loans with the Company.
Upon admission the Company forgave loans totalling 0.1 million.
At 31 December 2015 there is one loan to a Director for the value of 0.05 million under normal terms of business 31 December 2014: two loans, 0.1 million.
Long-term incentive schemes The Directors held certain shares pre-IPO which converted into ordinary shares on IPO.
The reported gains have been calculated on the market value of shares held at IPO 1.92 less the actual cost on any share bought pre-IPO, regardless of whether such shares were acquired as an investment or an incentive.
The aggregate gains on such shares held by Directors on IPO was 7,782,900.
Total aggregate emoluments The aggregate emoluments of all Directors comprising salary fees, benefits, market adjusted allowance and bonuses during the year was 10,588,400.
Pension and other post-retirement benefit commitments The Group operates two defined contribution pension schemes.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
Pension contributions of 1.6 million 31 December 2014: 1.2 million were charged to the income statement during the year in respect of these schemes.
The Group made payments amounting to 26,500 31 December 2014: 24,000 in aggregate in respect of Directors individual personal pension plans during the year.
There were outstanding contributions of 0.3 million at the year end 31 December 2014: 0.2 million.
Depreciation and amortisation 2015 2014 Note m m Depreciation 25 1.1 0.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 24 4.2 3.0 5.3 3.9 158 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices 16.
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation The profit on ordinary activities is after charging: 2015 2014 m m Operating lease rentals including service charges land and buildings 2.3 1.9 plant and equipment 0.5 0.5 Foreign exchange losses 0.1 The remuneration of the Groups external auditors, KPMG LLP, and their associates is asfollows: Fees payable to the Group's auditor for the audit of the annual accounts excluding VAT 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Group's auditor for the audit of the accounts of subsidiaries excluding VAT 0.4 0.3 Audit fees 0.5 0.4 Fees payable to the Group's auditor and its associates for other services excluding VAT : 1 Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.6 Other taxation advisory services 0.2 0.2 2 Corporate finance services 0.3 0.8 3 Other assurance services 0.1 0.6 All other services 0.1 Non-audit fees 0.8 2.2 1.3 2.6 1 Audit related assurance services for the year ended 31 December 2014 comprise services provided in relation to IFRS conversion audit and interim profit verifications during the year.
Also included was work in relation to the Groups issuance of Additional Tier 1 contingent convertible securities.
2 Fees payable for corporate finance services for the year include 0.3 million 2014: 0.8 million for the Reporting Accountants reports in relation to the Groups Initial Public Offering.
3 Other assurance services for the year ended 31 December 2014 relate to services provided in relation to the audit of the Groups results in preparation for its Initial Public Offering.
Taxation a Tax charge 2015 2014 m m Current tax on profits for the year 25.1 15.5 Under over provision in previous periods 1.1 0.1 Total current tax 26.2 15.4 Deferred tax 5.2 3.7 Over under provision in previous periods 0.9 0.2 Effect of change in tax rates including the Bank surcharge on the net deferred tax asset 3.7 Total deferred tax 9.8 3.5 Total tax charge 16.4 11.9 A tax credit of 0.6 million was recognised in other comprehensive income during the year ended 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: 0.2 million, tax charge in respect of available for sale debt securities.
A tax credit of 1.0 million 31 December 2014: nil was reflected directly in equity in respect of tax relief for AT1coupon and issue costs.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 159 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Taxation continued b Factors affecting tax charge for the year The tax assessed for the year is different to that resulting from applying the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25 per cent 31 December 2014: 21.5 per cent.
The differences are explained below: 2015 2014 m m Profit before tax 94.7 50.3 Tax at 20.25% 2014: 21.5% thereon 19.2 10.8 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.7 0.7 Under provision in previous period 0.2 0.1 Effect of change in tax rates including the Bank surcharge on the net deferred tax asset 3.7 0.3 16.4 11.9 c Deferred tax asset A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable future taxable profits against which the unwinding of the asset can be offset.
Analysis of recognised deferred tax asset: Recognised in Balance at Recognised in other start of the income comprehensive Balance at end year statement income of the year m m m m Year ended 31 December 2015 Capital allowances less than depreciation 6.5 10.0 16.5 Gains on available for sale debt securities recognised through other comprehensive income 0.3 0.1 0.2 Other temporary differences 0.4 0.8 0.4 Share-based payment timing differences 0.5 0.5 6.6 9.8 16.4 Year ended 31 December 2014 Capital allowances less than depreciation 3.3 3.2 6.5 Gains on available for sale debt securities recognised through other comprehensive income 0.1 0.2 0.3 Other temporary differences 0.1 0.3 0.4 3.3 3.5 0.2 6.6 Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 23 per cent to 21 per cent effective from 1 April 2014 and 20 per cent effective from 1 April 2015 were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013.
In the Budget on 8 July 2015, the Chancellor announced additional planned reductions to 19 per cent with effect from 1 April 2017 and to 18 per cent with effect from 1 April 2020.
In addition, the Chancellor announced the introduction of a corporation tax surcharge applicable to banking companies with effect from 1 January 2016.
The surcharge will be levied at a rate of 8 per cent on the profits of banking companies chargeable to corporation tax after an annual allowance of 25 million.
These changes, which were all substantively enacted on 26 October 2015 will result in an overall increase in the Groups tax charge for years commencing from 1 January 2016.
Deferred tax as at 31 December 2015 has been provided for at the revised substantively enacted rates that will apply when deferred tax assets are realised or deferred tax liabilities are settled.
The impact of this change increased the net deferred tax asset recognised as at 31 December 2015 by 3.7 million, with a corresponding reduction to the tax charge recognised in the income statement.
There were no unrecognised deferred tax balances at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: nil.
160 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices 18.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Group by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
2015 2014 Profit after taxation attributable to equity holders of the Group million 78.3 38.4 Coupon paid on contingent convertible securities, net of tax million 2.8 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Group million 75.5 38.4 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue million 332.4 296.2 Basic earnings per share p 22.7 13.0 The ordinary shares in issue used in the denominator in the calculation of basic earnings per share are the ordinary shares of the Company since the share reorganisation that occurred on the Companys admission to the LSE on 13 March 2015.
Further details of the share reorganisation are provided in Note 35.
Prior to that date, the ordinary shares in issue figure was based on the A1, A2, D and E ordinary shares in issue.
The B and C ordinary shares were excluded from the calculation on the basis that they had no entitlement to dividends or other distributions of the Company.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share in the prior period has been restated to reflect the impact of the bonus share issue that was made to existing shareholders as part of the share reorganisation that occurred on the Companys admission to the LSE on 13 March 2015.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share has been based on the same profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Group as for basic earnings and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding after the potential dilutive effect of share-based payment awards to Directors and employees.
The share warrants, giving rise to dilution for 2014, were exercised on 9 September 2015 and new shares were issued and listed on the London Stock Exchange for details see Note 35.
2015 2014 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue million basic 332.4 296.2 Effect of share warrants prior to their exercise 2.2 2.8 Effect of share-based payment awards 0.1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue million diluted 334.7 299.0 Diluted earnings per share p 22.6 12.9 19.
Loans and advances to banks 2015 2014 m m Included in cash and cash equivalents: balances with less than three months to maturity at inception 51.6 60.4 Cash collateral on derivatives placed with banks 31.7 46.1 Other loans and advances to banks 10.9 10.9 94.2 117.4 There were no individual or collective provisions for impairment held against loans and advances to banks.
10.9 million is recoverable more than 12 months after the reporting date 2014: 10.9 million and relates to cash held by the Groups securitisation vehicle, Oak No.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 161 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Loans and advances to customers 2015 2014 m m Gross loans and advances 6,165.5 4,823.6 less: allowance for impairment losses 20.7 22.5 6,144.8 4,801.1 Amounts include: Expected to be recovered more than 12 months after the reporting date 5,345.5 4,205.8 At 31 December 2015, loans and advances to customers of 1,445.5 million 31 December 2014: 719.9 million were pre-positioned with the Bank of England and HM Treasury Funding for Lending Scheme.
These loans and advances were available for use as collateral with the Scheme, against which 750.0 million of UK Treasury Bills had been drawn as at the reporting date 31 December 2014: 485.0 million.
At 31 December 2015, loans and advances to customers include 206.5 million 31 December 2014: 293.1 million which have been used in secured funding arrangements, resulting in the beneficial interest in these loans being transferred to Oak No.
1 PLC which is a securitisation vehicle consolidated into these financial statements.
The carrying value of these loans on 10 April 2014, when the beneficial interest was transferred, was 362.3 million.
These loans secured 333.3 million of funding for the Group.
All the assets pledged are retained within the statement of financial position as the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards relating to the loans.
Allowance for impairment losses Individual Collective Total m m m Year ended 31 December 2015 Balance as at 1 January 14.0 8.5 22.5 Impairment loss for the year: Charge to the income statement 6.8 3.6 10.4 Unwind of discounting 1.6 1.6 3.2 Write-offs net of recoveries 9.0 9.0 Balance as at 31 December 10.2 10.5 20.7 Individual Collective Total m m m Year ended 31 December 2014 Balance as at 1 January 14.7 6.3 21.0 Impairment loss for the year: Charge to the income statement 6.4 3.2 9.6 Unwind of discounting 1.0 1.0 2.0 Write-offs net of recoveries 6.1 6.1 Balance as at 31 December 14.0 8.5 22.5 162 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Finance lease receivables Loans and advances to customers include the following finance leases where the Group is the lessor: 1 2015 2014 m m Gross investment in finance leases, receivable: Less than one year 528.9 383.6 Between one and five years 913.4 689.9 More than five years 22.8 16.6 1,465.1 1,090.1 Unearned finance income 166.0 130.4 Net investment in finance leases 1,299.1 959.7 Net investment in finance leases, receivable: Less than one year 453.3 290.7 Between one and five years 824.1 652.8 More than five years 21.7 16.2 1,299.1 959.7 1 The 2014 comparatives have been re-presented to exclude block discounting facilities and unsecured lending which were previously included.
The Group enters into finance lease and hire purchase arrangements with customers in a wide range of sectors including plant and machinery, cars and commercial vehicles.
The accumulated allowance for uncollectible minimum lease payments receivable is 3.9 million 31 December 2014: 2.2 million.
Due to the nature of the business undertaken, there are no material unguaranteed residual values for any of the finance leases at 31 December 2015 or 31 December 2014.
Debt securities 2015 2014 m m Debt securities designated at fair value through profit or loss: UK Government gilts 116.4 Supranational bonds 38.0 154.4 Available for sale debt securities: UK Government gilts and treasury bills 94.4 21.5 Supranational bonds 267.9 293.0 Corporate bonds 29.9 24.5 Asset-backed securities 74.9 16.3 Covered bonds 139.0 606.1 355.3 606.1 509.7 At 31 December 2015, 566.6 million 31 December 2014: 459.1 million of debt securities are expected to be recovered more than 12 months after the reporting date.
There were no impairment losses in respect of available for sale debt securities.
The Group disposed of its holding of debt securities designated at fair value through profit or loss during the year.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 163 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Derivatives held for risk management Amounts included in the statement of financial position are analysed as follows: 2015 2014 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Instrument type Interest rate not in hedging relationships 0.8 1.4 1.1 23.2 Interest rate fair value hedges 5.9 33.9 6.6 30.6 Equity 0.4 0.4 Foreign exchange 0.1 0.1 6.7 35.4 8.2 54.2 All derivatives are held either as fair value hedges qualifying for hedge accounting or are held for the purpose of managing risk exposures arising on the Groups other financial instruments.
a Fair value hedges of interest rate risk The Group uses interest rate swaps within qualifying hedge accounting relationships to manage its exposure to changes in the fair values of certain fixed rate lending and savings products and debt securities held, attributable to changes in market interest rates.
Further details regarding the Groups approach to hedge accounting, including a description of the Groups exposure to volatility are provided in the risk report on page 125. b Other derivatives held for risk management The Group uses other derivatives, not designated in qualifying hedge relationships, to manage its exposure to the following: Interest rate risk on certain debt securities held which are designated at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate basis risk on certain mortgage loans Equity market risk on equity linked products offered to depositors Foreign exchange risk on currency loans provided to invoice finance customers 23.
Investment in subsidiaries The Company has an interest in the total ordinary share capital of the following subsidiaries except the securitisation vehicles, all of which are registered in England and operate in the UK.
All subsidiary undertakings are included in these consolidated financial statements.
Subsidiary undertakings direct interest Principal activity Shareholding % Aldermore Bank PLC Banking and related services 100 Dormant subsidiary undertakings indirect interest Aldermore Invoice Finance Holdings Limited Dormant 100 Aldermore Invoice Finance Limited Dormant 100 Aldermore Invoice Finance Oxford Limited Dormant 100 AR Audit Services Limited Dormant 100 Securitisation vehicles Oak No.
1 Mortgage Holdings Limited Holding company for securitisation vehicle Oak No.
1 PLC Securitisation vehicle The share capital of the securitisation vehicles is not owned by the Group but the vehicles are included in the consolidated financial statements as they are controlled by the Group.
164 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices 24.
Intangible assets Computer systems Goodwill Total m m m Cost 1 January 2015 19.2 12.6 31.8 Additions 5.6 5.6 31 December 2015 24.8 12.6 37.4 1 January 2014 16.3 12.6 28.9 Additions 4.5 4.5 Write-off 1.6 1.6 31 December 2014 19.2 12.6 31.8 Amortisation 1 January 2015 9.2 9.2 Charge for the year 4.2 4.2 31 December 2015 13.4 13.4 1 January 2014 6.2 6.2 Charge for the year 3.0 3.0 31 December 2014 9.2 9.2 Net book value 31 December 2015 11.4 12.6 24.0 31 December 2014 10.0 12.6 22.6 Goodwill arose on the acquisitions of Ruffler Holdings Limited subsequently renamed Aldermore Holdings Limited, Base Commercial Mortgages Holdings Limited and Absolute Invoice Finance Holdings Limited.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Groups operating segments.
The aggregate amount allocated to each segment is as follows: 2015 2014 m m SME Commercial Mortgages 8.5 8.5 Invoice Finance 4.1 4.1 12.6 12.6 No impairment losses on goodwill were recognised during the year ended 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: nil.
The Value in Use VIU for SME Commercial Mortgages and Invoice Finance segment have been determined by discounting the future cash flows to be generated from the continuing use of the segment.
VIU at 31 December 2015 has been determined in a similar manner as at 31 December 2014.
Key assumptions used in the calculation of VIU were the following: Cash flows were projected based on past experience, actual operating results and the five-year business plan 31 December 2014: the five-year business plan.
Cash flows after the planning period were extrapolated using a constant growth rate of 2 per cent 31 December 2014: 3 per cent into perpetuity Pre-tax discount rates of 13.0 per cent and 14.3 per cent 31 December 2014: 13.0 per cent and 15.0 per cent respectively were applied in determining the recoverable amounts for the SME Commercial Mortgages and Invoice Finance operating segments.
These discount rates were based on the weighted average cost of funding for the segments taking into account the Groups regulatory capital requirement and expected market returns for debt and equity funding, adjusted for risk premiums to reflect the systemic risk of the individual segments The VIU of the SME Commercial Mortgage segment is significantly above the carrying value of the attributable goodwill and net assets.
The Group estimates that reasonably possible changes in the above assumptions are not expected to cause the recoverable amount of SME Commercial Mortgage to reduce below the carrying amount.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 165 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Intangible assets continued Goodwill attributable to Invoice Finance During 2015, the Invoice Finance business was refocused and management revised their projections for the business while the impact of this is being assessed.
Under IAS 36, the recoverable amount is the greater of either the VIU of a business or its Fair Value less Costs of Disposal FVLCD.
Management has therefore also considered the FVLCD valuation method.
Management considers the goodwill attributable to the Invoice Finance business to be a critical accounting judgement.
Note 3 provides further details of the method used to calculate the FVLCD valuation method.
Under the FVLCD method, the goodwill balance of 4.1 million in relation to the Invoice Finance segment is supportable.
The valuation calculated using the FVLCD method is categorised as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13.
Other assets 2015 2014 m m Amounts recoverable within one year 1.4 3.1 Amounts recoverable after one year 0.2 1.4 3.3 27.
Prepayments and accrued income 2015 2014 m m Amounts recoverable within 12 months: Accrued income 1.9 2.6 Other prepayments 3.2 4.1 5.1 6.7 166 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices 28.
Amounts due to banks 2015 2014 m m Amounts repayable within 12 months: Due to banks repurchase agreements 398.6 304.2 Due to banks deposits 5.2 0.6 Cash collateral received on derivatives 1.3 1.1 405.1 305.9 Collateral given under repurchase agreements The face value of securities sold under agreements to repurchase at 31 December 2015 was 400.0 million 31 December 2014: 305.0 million all of which were drawn down from the Bank of England under the terms of the Funding for Lending Scheme.
The Group conducts these repurchase transactions under the terms of applicable General Master Repurchase Agreement guidelines.
Consideration received in return for the collateral is recorded as Amounts due to banks and is accounted for as a financial liability at amortised cost.
Other liabilities 2015 2014 m m Amounts payable within 12 months: Amounts payable to Invoice Finance customers 9.4 10.1 Other taxation and social security costs 4.3 3.8 Trade creditors 3.2 2.9 Other payables 5.0 1.8 21.9 18.6 31.
Accruals and deferred income 2015 2014 m m Amounts payable within 12 months: Accruals 24.0 19.1 Deferred income 1.7 2.0 25.7 21.1 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 167 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Provisions Financial Services Compensation Customer Scheme redress Total m m m 1 January 2015 1.2 0.8 2.0 Utilised during the year 2.3 0.9 3.2 Provided during the year 2.2 0.1 2.3 31 December 2015 1.1 1.1 1 January 2014 0.7 0.5 1.2 Utilised during the year 2.1 0.7 2.8 Provided during the year 2.6 1.0 3.6 31 December 2014 1.2 0.8 2.0 Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS In common with all regulated UK deposit takers, the Groups principal subsidiary, Aldermore Bank PLC, pays levies to the FSCS to enable the FSCS to meet claims against it.
The FSCS levy consists of two parts: a management expenses levy and a compensation levy, which includes capital and interest levies.
The management expenses levy covers the costs of running the scheme and the compensation levy covers the amount of compensation the scheme pays, net of any recoveries it makes using the rights that have been assigned to it.
The FSCS provision at 31 December 2015 of 1.1 million 31 December 2014: 1.2 million represents the interest levy for the 2015 2016 scheme year 31 December 2014: interest levy for the 2014 2015 scheme year.
Customer redress The Group has a small number of loans which are regulated under the Consumer Credit Act CCA and had identified that, following changes to the CCA in 2008, certain letters and statements were sent to customers that did not fully comply with the requirements prescribed by the CCA.
Accordingly, these customers were entitled to redress for interest and fees charged on the relevant loans as a result of this technical non-compliance, notwithstanding there is unlikely to have been any customer detriment.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, a provision of 1.0 million was recorded in relation to CCA non-compliance.
A further provision of 0.1 million has been recorded in the year ended 31 December 2015.
Remedial payments to customers affected were all made during the year and accordingly there is nil provision at 31 December 2015.
Debt securities in issue Debt securities in issue are repayable from the reporting date in the ordinary course of business as follows: 2015 2014 m m In more than one year 193.9 279.1 Debt securities in issue with a principal value of 194.8 million 31 December 2014: 280.5 million are secured on certain portfolios of variable and fixed rate mortgages through the Groups securitisation vehicle, Oak No.
These notes are redeemable in part from time to time, such redemptions being limited to the net capital received from mortgage customers in respect of the underlying assets.
There is no obligation for the Group to make good any shortfall.
Further disclosure relating to the underlying assets is contained in Note 20.
Subordinated notes 2015 2014 m m Subordinated notes 38.1 36.8 During 2012, the Group issued 40 million subordinated 12.875 per cent loan notes, repayable in 2022, with an option for the Group to redeem early after five years.
The interest rate is fixed until May 2017.
The loan notes were issued at a discount and are carried in the statement of financial position at amortised cost using an EIR of 18.597 per cent.
In addition to the loan notes, warrants were issued by the Groups Parent Company, Aldermore Group PLC.
The warrants were valued at 2.2 million, and this was treated as a warrant reserve within equity in accordance with the accounting policy in Note 2 f. On 9 September 2015, the warrants were exercised resulting in 5.5 million ordinary 0.10 shares being issued see Note 35.
168 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices 35.
Share capital 2015 2014 000 000 Type Ordinary shares of 0.10 each 34,474.0 A1 ordinary shares of 0.10 each 3,569.4 A2 ordinary shares of 0.10 each 5,870.4 B ordinary shares of 0.10 each 385.5 C ordinary shares of 0.0001 each 13.2 D ordinary shares of 0.10 each 5,440.5 E ordinary shares of 0.10 each 8,458.4 34,474.0 23,737.4 On 13 March 2015, the Company reorganised its share capital in preparation for listing on the LSE.
The restructuring can be summarised as follows: 1,025,586 A1 ordinary shares, 131,593,114 C ordinary shares and 568,253 E ordinary shares were re-designated as deferred shares 406,886 C ordinary shares nominal value of 0.0999 per share were issued and allotted to C ordinary shareholders on a pro-rata basis by way of bonus issue using distributable reserves, resulting in an increase of 40,648 in share capital Each C ordinary share with a nominal value of 0.0999 was consolidated with a C ordinary share with a nominal value of 0.0001, resulting in 406,886 C ordinary shares with a nominal value of 0.10 each being in issue The following shares were re-designated as ordinary shares: 34,668,414 A1 ordinary shares, 58,704,268 A2 ordinary shares, 3,854,632 B ordinary shares, 406,886 C ordinary shares, 54,405,224 D ordinary shares, and 84,016,023 E ordinary shares 63,944,554 ordinary shares were issued and allotted on a pro-rata basis to all shareholders excluding holders of deferred shares by way of bonus issue using distributable reserves, resulting in an increase of 6,394,455 in share capital The Company bought back 133,186,953 deferred shares for an aggregate price of 1 using distributable reserves.
This resulted in the creation of a capital redemption reserve of 172,543 and a reduction in the Companys share capital of the same amount Following the reorganisation, 117,934,783 ordinary shares of 0.10 each were issued in the IPO at a price of 1.92 per share.
Of the 117,934,783 shares in the offer, 78,872,283 were sold by existing shareholders, with the remaining 39,062,500 being issued by the Company, resulting in an increase in share capital of 3,906,250 and share premium account of 71,093,750 excluding costs.
Ordinary shares have full voting rights, dividend rights and distribution rights in the event of sale or wind up.
At 13 March 2015, after completion of the IPO, there were 339,062,500 shares in circulation.
Following the listing, the Company granted 174,920 shares to eligible employees as free share awards under the Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Further details regarding the SIP are provided in Note 36.
The shares vested on 17 April 2015, resulting in an increase of 17,492 in share capital and a reduction in retained earnings of the same amount.
On 9 September 2015, the share warrants attached to the subordinated notes see Note 2 f were exercised resulting in the issue of 3,668,110 ordinary 0.10 shares at a price of 0.89 per share and 1,834,054 ordinary 0.10 shares at a price of 1.23 per share.
The aggregate nominal value of the shares issued was 550,216.40, whilst the total consideration was 5,520,504.32.
The shares were issued to Centerbridge Credit Partners L. P. Centerbridge Credit Partners TE Intermediate I, L. P. Centerbridge Special Credit Partners AIV III, L. P. and Centerbridge Special Credit Partners II, L. P. The mid-market closing price of the Companys shares on 9 September 2015, the date that the share warrants were exercised, was 2.93.
The share issue resulted in an increase in share capital of 550,216 and share premium account of 4,970,288.
The warrant reserve of 2,200,000 was transferred within equity to retained earnings.
At 31 December 2015, there were 344,739,584 ordinary 0.10 shares in circulation resulting in share capital of 34,473,958.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 169 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36.
Share-based payments The Group implemented a number of new share schemes during the year as described below: Eligible Plan Employees Nature of award Vesting conditions Grant date A Performance Selected senior Conditional Continuing employment or leavers in certain 2 March 2015 Share Plan employees shareaward limited circumstances and achievement of earnings per share andTotal Shareholder Return performance conditions B Pre-IPO award under Selected senior Conditional Continuing employment or leavers 2 March 2015 the Performance employees shareaward in certainlimited circumstances and SharePlan achievement of Total Shareholder  C Restricted SharePlan Selected senior Conditional Continuing employment or leavers incertain 2 March 2015 employees shareaward limited circumstances D Share Incentive Plan All employees Non-conditional Employment at date of grant 17 April 2015 shareaward E Sharesave Plan All employees Option to Monthly contributions to the scheme and 29 October 2015 purchase shares at continuing employment or leavers in certain the vesting date limited circumstances F Deferred SharePlan Selected senior Deferred Continuing employment or leavers incertain See f below employees conditional share limited circumstances award Further details of each of the schemes are provided below.
a Performance Share Plan The Performance Share Plan PSP is open to senior employees including the Executive team.
The grant date of awards was 2 March 2015, with individuals being required to remain in employment until 2 March 2018.
The awards are subject to a two-year holding period which ends on 2 March 2020 and are exercisable between that date and 1 March 2025.
Awards under the PSP are subject to performance conditions.
Performance conditions are set by the Remuneration Committee each time awards are granted and determine the extent to which awards can become available to individuals.
The performance conditions for these first awards relate to the growth in Total Shareholder Return TSR for the period to 31 December 2017, measured from the date of admission to the LSE 13 March 2015 for 50 per cent of each award and Earnings Per Share EPS performance for the year ended 31 December 2017 for the remaining 50 per cent of each award.
The outcome of the performance conditions, as assessed by the Remuneration Committee, will determine the vesting outcome of the awards and the shares available for exercise.
In addition, there are underpin performance conditions which must be met, including in relation to the TSR element of the award.
The value of the TSR achieved, over the performance period, must be equal to or greater than the TSR of the median company of FTSE 350 companies, excluding Investment Trusts.
b Pre-IPO award under the PSP The Pre-IPO awards were granted to individuals, as a one-off reward to those who contributed significantly to the development of the Group in the build-up to its IPO.
The awards were granted to a number of senior employees, including the Executive team.
The grant date of the awards was 2 March 2015.
The awards are subject to performance conditions which must be satisfied in order for individuals to be entitled to receive the shares awarded.
If the performance conditions are achieved the awards will vest on 31 December 2016.
The performance conditions relate to growth in TSR for the period to 31 December 2016, measured from the date of admission to the LSE 13 March 2015.
The outcome of the performance conditions determine the extent to which shares awarded become available to individual participants.
Similar underpin performance conditions apply to the awards as those in the PSP see a above, including the TSR condition based on the median of FTSE 350 companies excluding Investment Trusts.
c Restricted Share Plan The Restricted Share Plan RSP is open to a small number of senior employees engaged in risk functions.
There are no financial performance conditions attached to the awards under the RSP.
170 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices d Share Incentive Plan All employees are eligible to participate in the Share Incentive Plan SIP.
An award of free shares was granted under the SIP on 17 April 2015.
Each eligible employee received shares worth 200, with an additional 200 for each year of service up to a maximum award of 1,000.
The shares are subject to a minimum holding period of the shorter of three years from their award date or the date to when the employee ceases to be employed.
There are no performance conditions associated with the share awards.
Participants in the SIP are the beneficial owners of the shares granted to them, but not the registered owner.
Voting rights over the shares are normally exercised by the registered owner at the direction of the participant.
e Sharesave Plan All employees are eligible to participate in the Sharesave Plan.
The grant date of the awards was 29 October 2015, with individuals in the Plan contributing a set amount each month for three years, commencing in January 2016.
At the end of the contribution period there is the option to buy shares in Aldermore Group PLC at an option price of 2.52, which was fixed at the grant date.
There are no financial performance conditions attached to the awards but the options are subject to service conditions based on employment and whether the employee continues to contribute to the Plan.
Employees have the option but not the obligation to buy shares depending upon the share price at the end of the Plan.
There are no holding conditions at the end of the Plan.
f Deferred Share Plan The Deferred Share Plan DSP is open to senior employees including the Executive team and represents the portion of the Annual Incentive Plan that is deferred to align the interests of senior employees and the Executive team with shareholders.
Shares within the DSP may accrue dividend equivalents which may be settled in shares or cash equivalents.
The awards are typically released in tranches of one-third on the first, second and third anniversary of the award, subject to continued employment.
There are no financial performance conditions attached to the awards under the DSP.
Share awards for the deferred element of the 2015 bonuses will be granted under this scheme in 2016.
Shares worth 1.2 million are expected to be granted.
Awards under the DSP are accounted for as equity settled share-based payments.
Awards options granted, forfeited and vested The table below details the number of awards options granted, forfeited and vested during the year, the number outstanding as at 31 December 2015 and the average fair values at grant date of the awards made during the year: Awards Average fair Total fair outstanding value per value to be Awards Awards Awards at award at recognised 2015 income options options options 31 December grant date over the statement granted forfeited vested 2015 rounded vesting period charge Plan Number Number Number Number m m Performance Share Plan 1,539,629 133,398 1,406,231 1.13 1.6 1.2 Pre-IPO award under the PSP 7,549,101 115,092 7,434,009 0.31 2.3 0.5 Restricted Share Plan 105,753 105,753 1.92 0.2 0.1 Share Incentive Plan 174,920 174,920 2.41 0.4 0.4 Sharesave Plan 794,966 794,966 0.79 0.6 Where there have been leavers from the schemes, the individual circumstances of each leaver is considered and the IFRS 2 charge expensed over a shorter period or the shares forfeited as appropriate.
The B, C and E ordinary shares granted to employees in previous periods were included in the reorganisation of the Companys share capital which took place on 13 March 2015 in preparation for the Companys listing on the LSE.
Of the 132 million C ordinary shares granted to employees, 113,593,114 were converted to deferred shares, on 13 March 2015, which the Company repurchased for total consideration of 1 and the remaining C shares were converted into ordinary shares on the same date.
As the awards under the DSP have yet to be granted, it is not possible to provide details of the specific number of awards granted.
A charge of 1.2 million has been recorded in the 2015 income statement.
Determination of grant date fair values Share awards Share awards are not entitled to dividends until the awards vest, but the number of shares subject to vested PSP and RSP awards may be increased to reflect the value of dividends that would have been paid up to the end of the holding period for the awards.
This is designed to deliver a benefit similar to that which ordinary shareholders may receive in respect of any dividends paid during the vesting period.
Accordingly, the grant date fair value of the awards with no performance conditions other than service conditions has been taken as the market value of the Companys ordinary shares at the grant date.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 171 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36.
Share-based payments continued In respect of awards for which there are non-market performance conditions e. g. EPS, the grant date fair value per award has been taken as the market value of an ordinary share at the grant date.
A forecast is made of the number of awards expected to vest in order to determine the overall share-based payment charge to be recognised over the vesting period.
In respect of awards for which there are market performance conditions e. g. TSR, the grant date fair value of each award is required to reflect the likelihood of achieving the market conditions within the valuation.
For the awards concerned, the grant date fair values for each award were determined using stochastic simulation models with the following significant inputs: Pre-IPO PSP Ordinary share price 1.92 1.92 Risk free rate 0.59% p. a.
0.90% p. a. Probability distributions of TSRs for Aldermore and the median FTSE 350 excluding Investment Trust companies Log normal Log normal Annual volatility of logarithm of TSR for Aldermore share price based on recently floatedbanks 24% 24% Annual volatility of logarithm of TSR for median of FTSE 350 excluding Investment Trust companies based on 5 years data 15% 15% Correlation between volatilities None None Share options Sharesave Plan Options granted under the Sharesave Plan have no entitlement to dividends until they are exercised.
The grant date fair value of the options were determined using a Black Scholes valuation model with the following significant inputs: Sharesave Plan Share price at grant date 2.62 Exercise price 2.52 Risk free rate 0.89% p. a.
1 Expected volatility of Company share price 39.18% Expected life 3.25 years 1 Based on Aldermore Group PLC share price volatility, from the date of listing 13 March 2015 to the grant date, measured on an annualised basis.
The overall share-based payment charge for the year ended 31 December 2015 totalled 3.4 million 31 December 2014: 0.6 million.
Contingent convertible securities On 9 December 2014, the Company issued 75 million Fixed Rate Reset Additional Tier 1 Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities the Securities.
Net proceeds arising from the issuance, after deducting issuance costs and the associated tax credit totalled 74.0 million.
The Securities are perpetual and have no fixed redemption date.
Redemption of the Securities is at the option of the Company on 30 April 2020 and annually thereafter.
The Securities bear interest at an initial rate of 11.875 per cent per annum until 30 April 2020 and thereafter at the relevant Reset Interest Rate as provided in the Information Memorandum.
Interest is payable on the Securities annually in arrears on each interest payment date commencing 30 April 2015 and is non-cumulative.
The Borrower has the full discretion to cancel any interest scheduled to be paid on the Securities.
The Securities are convertible into ordinary shares of the Company in the event of the Groups Common Equity Tier 1 ratio falling below 7 per cent.
As the Securities contain no obligation on the Company to make payments of principal or interest, they have been classified as equity instruments as required by IAS 32.
Accordingly, the Securities have been included in equity at the fair value of the proceeds received less any direct costs attributable to the issue of the Securities, net of tax relief thereon.
Any interest paid on the Securities, net of tax relief thereon, is a distribution to holders of equity instruments and has been recognised directly in equity on the payment date.
Although there are number of additional terms relating to events such as acquisition and wind up, there are no circumstances in which the Group has an unavoidable obligation to issue a variable number of its own shares.
The Group has not separated any embedded derivative features because the Group has an accounting policy not to separate a feature that has already been considered in determining that the entire issue is a non-derivative equity instrument.
172 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices 38.
Statement of cash flows a Adjustments for non-cash items and other adjustments included within the income statement 2015 2014 m m Depreciation and amortisation 5.3 3.9 Write-off of intangible assets 1.6 Amortisation of securitisation issuance cost 0.5 0.4 Discount accretion on subordinated notes 1.4 1.2 Impairment losses on loans and advances 10.4 9.6 Unwind of discounting 3.2 2.0 Write-offs net of recoveries 9.0 6.0 Net losses gains on debt securities designated at fair value through profit or loss 0.2 9.5 Losses gains on hedged available for sale debt securities recognised in profit or loss 6.9 4.1 Net gains on disposal of available for sale debt securities 2.1 2.5 Interest expense on subordinated notes 5.1 5.2 Interest income on debt securities 12.8 10.7 Interest expense on debt securities in issue 3.0 2.9 Equity settled share-based payment charge 3.4 0.6 9.1 9.4 b Increase in operating assets 2015 2014 m m Loans and advances to customers 1,341.9 1,428.8 Loans and advances to banks 14.4 45.7 Derivative financial instruments 1.5 0.7 Fair value adjustments for portfolio hedged risk 6.1 7.2 Other operating assets 2.0 6.8 1,317.9 1,487.8 c Increase in operating liabilities 2015 2014 m m Amounts due to banks 99.2 80.0 Customers' accounts 1,283.0 995.0 Derivative financial instruments 18.8 36.3 Fair value adjustments for portfolio hedged risk 2.3 1.5 Other operating liabilities 7.0 10.0 1,368.1 962.8 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 173 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 38.
Statement of cash flows continued d Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on demand and overnight deposits classified as cash and balances at central banks unless restricted and balances within loans and advances to banks.
The following balances have been identified as being cash and cash equivalents.
2015 2014 m m Cash and balances at central banks 105.3 79.6 Less restricted balances 7.5 6.0 Loans and advances to banks 51.6 60.4 149.4 134.0 Restricted balances comprise minimum balances required to be held at the Bank of England as they are not readily convertible to cash in hand or demand deposits.
Loans and advances to banks as at 31 December 2015 include 10.9 million held by the securitisation vehicle, Oak No.
1 PLC, which is not available to the other members of the Group 31 December 2014: 10.9 million.
Commitments and contingencies At 31 December 2015, the Group had undrawn commitments to lend of 556.0 million 31 December 2014: 404.6 million.
These relate mostly to irrevocable lines of credit granted to customers.
At the end of the reporting period, the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable as follows: 2015 2014 Land and buildings m m In less than one year 1.9 1.5 Between one and five years 6.0 3.0 More than five years 2.4 0.5 10.3 5.0 2015 2014 Equipment m m In less than one year 0.4 0.2 Between one and five years 0.2 0.3 0.6 0.5 At 31 December 2015, the majority of operating leases for equipment related to 70 cars that the Group held under lease 31 December 2014: 49.
The majority of these leases are due to expire in 2017.
Legislation As a financial services Group, Aldermore Group PLC is subject to extensive and comprehensive regulation.
The Group must comply with numerous laws and regulations, which significantly affect the way it does business.
Whilst the Group believes there are no unidentified areas of failure to comply with these laws and regulations which would have a material impact on the financial statements, there can be no guarantee that all issues have been identified.
174 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices 40.
Related parties a Controlling parties The Group was previously controlled by AnaCap Financial Partners, II L. P. 52.3 per cent.
of voting rights and AnaCap Financial Partners, L. P. 47.7 per cent.
of voting rights who were the sole voting shareholders of Aldermore Group PLC.
On 13 March 2015, the Company was admitted to the LSE, offering 117,934,783 ordinary shares, of which 78,872,283 shares were sold by the Selling shareholders.
Upon admission, AnaCap Financial Partners L. P. AnaCap Financial Partners II L. P. AnaCap Derby CoInvestment No.
L. P. andAnaCap Derby Co-Investment No.
2. collectively the Principal Shareholders and the Company entered into the Relationship agreement.
Details of the Relationship agreement were provided within the Prospectus issued prior to the admission to the LSE.
On 15 September 2015 the Principal Shareholders sold 40,885,613 Ordinary 0.10 shares on the open market.
At 31 December 2015, AnaCap Financial Partners L. P. AnaCap Financial Partners II L. P. AnaCap Derby Co-Investment No.
L. P. and AnaCap Derby Co-Investment No.
L. P held 11.26 per cent, 11.01 per cent, 9.54 per cent and 8.33 per cent of the Companys ordinary share capital respectively.
Although Anacap is no longer a controlling party for the Group it continues to have significant influence and is therefore considered to be a related party.
The Group had agreements in place with Syscap Limited Syscap at the start of the year.
Syscap were previously under the control of Anacap Financial Partners II L. P. and AnaCap Financial Partners, L. P. Syscap ceased to be a related party when Anacap sold their interest on 20 February 2015.
During the year the following agreements were in place between the Group and Syscap: The Group provides 5 million of block discounting facilities to Syscap Limited, a provider of business finance solutions.
The facilities are secured by underlying receivables of short-term loans, primarily to solicitors practices which are funded at a discount to the face value of the loans.
The facilities contain appropriate conditions relating to performance, non-performing deal substitution rights and default provisions in line with the Groups standard commercial policies.
Pricing on the facilities is subject to normal commercial terms Until 20 February 2015 Syscap introduced business of 9.6 million year ended 31 December 2014: 21.9 million and received commission of 0.1 million year ended 31 December 2014: 0.4 million of which nil was outstanding as at 20 February 2015 31 December 2014: nil In addition, Anacap charged the Group investment monitoring fees of 29,000 for the year ended 31 December 2015 year ended 31 December 2014: 0.2 million.
The balance outstanding at 31 December 2015 is nil 31 December 2014: 0.1 million.
During 2015, the Group also incurred fees of 0.1 million in relation to the  Directors year ended 31 December 2014: nil.
b Key management personnel Key Management Personnel KMP comprise Directors of the Group and members of the Executive Committee.
Details of the compensation paid in accordance with IAS 24 to KMP are: 2015 2014 000 000 Emoluments 5,035.8 3,366.0 Payments in respect of personal pension plans 45.9 24.0 Compensation for loss of office 20.0 Contributions to money purchase scheme 71.3 72.0 Loan forgiveness 162.3 Share-based payments 1,196.5 555.0 6,511.8 4,037.0 Compensation for loss of office for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 20,000 relates to two key persons.
The Group made payments of 45,900 in aggregate in respect of four key persons personal pension plans during the year ended 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: 24,000, two key persons.
Key persons emoluments includes 0.8 million of deferred bonus 31 December 2014: nil.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 175 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 40.
Related parties continued Share-Based Payments SBP As at 31 December 2014, certain KMP held a number of shares in the B, C and E classes.
In preparation for the IPO, the rights to these shares were varied and the holdings re-designated.
A number of KMP were awarded shares in the Company under new share incentive plans created upon IPO.
In total, KMP were granted awards over 5,938,906 shares.
Further details of the share schemes, including performance conditions are provided in Note 36.
In addition, a number of KMP participated in the Sharesave Plan, holding options over a total of 17,855 shares at 31 December 2015.
The aggregate value of transactions and outstanding balances related to KMP as defined by IAS 24 Related Party Disclosure were as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Deposits At 1 January 1,565.0 1,067.0 Net movement 454.2 498.0 At 31 December 2,019.2 1,565.0 The table above includes transactions and balances relating to KMP in post at the end of the year.
At 31 December 2015 there are two loans with KMP for the value of 0.1 million 31 December 2014: four loans, 0.2 million.
From 1 January 2015 until admission to the LSE a number of KMP had loans with the Company.
Upon admission the Company forgave loans totalling 0.2 million.
A number of KMP continue to have loans and deposits in the ordinary course of business with the Group.
During 2014 and up to Admission, interest rates charged on loan balances outstanding from related parties were lower than the rates that would be charged in arms length transactions.
Interest was charged on these loans at an annual rate of 0.8 per cent above 1 month LIBOR.
All deposit arrangements have been operated by the Group on commercial terms and conditions.
176 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices 41.
Financial instruments and fair values The following table summarises the classification and carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets and liabilities: Designated at Fair value fair value through profit Liabilities at Loans and Available through profit or loss Fair value amortised receivables forsale or loss required hedges cost Total 31 December 2015 m m m m m m m Cash and balances at central banks 105.3 105.3 Loans and advances to banks 94.2 94.2 Debt securities 606.1 606.1 Derivatives held for risk management 6.7 6.7 Fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk 1.1 1.1 Loans and advances to customers 6,144.8 6,144.8 Other assets 0.4 0.4 Total financial assets 6,344.7 606.1 6.7 1.1 6,958.6 Non-financial assets 49.9 Total assets 7,008.5 Amounts due to banks 405.1 405.1 Customers accounts 5,742.0 5,742.0 Derivatives held for risk management 35.4 35.4 Fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk 0.8 0.8 Other liabilities 17.6 17.6 Debt securities in issue 193.9 193.9 Subordinated notes 38.1 38.1 Total financial liabilities 35.4 0.8 6,396.7 6,431.3 Non-financial liabilities 43.6 Total liabilities 6,474.9 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 177 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 41.
Financial instruments and fair values continued Designated at Fair value fair value through profit Loans and Available through profit or loss Fair value Liabilities at receivables forsale or loss required hedges amortised cost Total 31 December 2014 m m m m m m m Cash and balances at central banks 79.6 79.6 Loans and advances to banks 117.4 117.4 Debt securities 355.3 154.4 509.7 Derivatives held for risk management 8.2 8.2 Fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk 7.2 7.2 Loans and advances to customers 4,801.1 4,801.1 Other assets 1.2 1.2 Total financial assets 4,999.3 355.3 154.4 8.2 7.2 5,524.4 Non-financial assets 40.8 Total assets 5,565.2 Amounts due to banks 305.9 305.9 Customers accounts 4,459.0 4,459.0 Derivatives held for riskmanagement 54.2 54.2 Fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk 1.5 1.5 Other liabilities 14.8 14.8 Debt securities in issue 279.1 279.1 Subordinated notes 36.8 36.8 Total financial liabilities 54.2 1.5 5,095.6 5,151.3 Non-financial liabilities 35.0 Total liabilities 5,186.3 The following table summarises the carrying amounts and fair values of those financial assets and liabilities not presented in the statement of financial position at fair value.
The fair values in this note are stated at a specific date and may be significantly different from the amounts which will actually be paid on the maturity or settlement dates of the instruments.
As a wide range of valuation techniques are available, it may be inappropriate to compare this fair value information to that of independent market or other financial institutions.
2015 2014 1 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value m m m m Cash and balances at central banks 105.3 105.3 79.6 79.6 Loans and advances to banks 94.2 94.2 117.4 117.4 Loans and advances to customers 6,144.8 6,194.1 4,801.1 4,831.0 Other assets 0.4 0.4 1.2 1.2 Total financial assets 6,344.7 6,394.0 4,999.3 5,029.2 Amounts due to banks 405.1 405.1 305.9 305.9 Customers accounts 5,742.0 5,752.8 4,459.0 4,469.4 Other liabilities 17.6 17.6 14.8 14.8 Debt securities in issue 193.9 194.8 279.1 281.3 Subordinated notes 38.1 48.0 36.8 47.9 Total financial liabilities 6,396.7 6,418.3 5,095.6 5,119.3 1 During the year the methodology used to calculate the fair value of loans and advances to customers has been enhanced based on more granular discounted cash flow calculations.
Accordingly, the 31 December 2014 comparatives have been represented on this basis.
178 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Key considerations in the calculation of the disclosed fair values for those financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost include the following: a Cash and balances at central banks These represent amounts with an initial maturity of less than three months and as such their carrying value is considered a reasonable approximation of their fair value.
b Loans and advances to banks These represent either amounts with an initial maturity of less than three months or longer term variable rate deposits placed with banks, where adjustments to fair value in respect of the credit risk of the counterparty are not considered necessary.
Accordingly the carrying value of the assets is considered to be not materially different from their fair value.
c Loans and advances to customers For fixed rate lending products the Group has estimated the fair value of the fixed rate interest cash flows by discounting those cash flows by the current appropriate market reference rate used for pricing equivalent products plus the credit spread attributable to the borrower.
For standard variable rate lending products, and fixed rate products when they revert to the Groups standard variable rate, the interest rate on such products is considered equivalent to a current market product rate and as such the Group considers the discounted future cash flows of these mortgages to be equal to their carrying value.
The fair value estimations do not incorporate adjustments for changes in future credit risk, since loans were granted, however, incurred loss provisions are deducted from the fair value amounts.
d Other assets and liabilities These represent short-term receivables and payables and as such their carrying value is not considered to be materially different from their fair value.
e Amounts due to banks These mainly represent securities sold under agreements to repurchase which were drawn down from the Bank of England under the terms of the Funding for Lending Scheme.
These transactions are collateralised by UK Government Treasury Bills, which have a low susceptibility to credit risk, so adjustments to fair value in respect of the credit risk of the counterparty are not considered necessary.
Accordingly the carrying value of the liabilities are not considered to be materially different from their fair value.
f Customers accounts The fair value of fixed rate customers accounts have been determined by discounting estimated future cash flows based on rates currently offered by the Group for equivalent deposits.
Customers accounts at variable rates are at current market rates and therefore the Group regards the fair value to be equal to the carrying value.
The estimated fair value of deposits with no stated maturity is the amount repayable on demand.
g Debt securities in issue As the securities are actively traded in a recognised market, with readily available and quoted prices, these have been used to value the securities.
These securities are therefore regarded as having Level 1 fair values.
h Subordinated notes The estimated fair value of the subordinated notes is based on discounted cash flows using interest rates for similar liabilities with the same remaining maturity, credit ranking and rating.
The calculated fair value takes no account of the warrants issued separately to the holders of the subordinated notes, which have been separately accounted for as a capital contribution within equity on issue.
The warrants were exercised during September 2015 see Note 35.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 179 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 41.
Financial instruments and fair values continued The following table provides an analysis of financial assets and liabilities held on the consolidated statement of financial position at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 31 December 2015 m m m m Financial assets: Derivatives held for risk management 6.7 6.7 Debt securities: Asset backed securities 74.9 74.9 UK Gilts and Supranational bonds 362.3 362.3 Corporate bonds 29.9 29.9 Covered bonds 139.0 139.0 531.2 81.6 612.8 Financial liabilities: Derivatives held for risk management 35.4 35.4 35.4 35.4 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 31 December 2014 m m m m Financial assets: Derivatives held for risk management 8.2 8.2 Debt securities: Asset backed securities 16.3 16.3 UK Gilts and Supranational bonds 468.9 468.9 Corporate bonds 24.5 24.5 493.4 24.5 517.9 Financial liabilities: Derivatives held for risk management 54.2 54.2 54.2 54.2 Level 1: Fair value determined using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Fair value determined using directly or indirectly observable inputs other than unadjusted quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable.
Level 3: Fair value determined using one or more significant inputs that are not based on observable market data.
The fair values of UK Gilts, Supranational bonds, Corporate bonds and Covered bonds are based on quoted bid prices in active markets.
The fair value of asset backed securities are based on indicative prices provided by market counterparties, but before relying on these prices, the Group has obtained an understanding of how the prices were derived to ensure that each investment is assigned an appropriate classification within the fair value hierarchy.
The fair values of derivative assets and liabilities are determined using widely recognised valuation methods for determining the fair values of common derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps that used only observable market data that require little management judgement and estimation.
Credit value and debit value adjustments have not been applied as the derivative assets and liabilities are largely collateralised.
Fair value measurement financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost All the fair values of financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost are considered to be Level 2 valuations which are determined using directly or indirectly observable inputs other than unadjusted quoted prices, except for debt securities in issue which are Level 1 and loans and advances to customers which are Level 3.
180 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Fair value of transferred assets and associated liabilities Securitisation vehicle The sale of the beneficial ownership of the loans and advances to customers to the securitisation vehicle by the Bank fail the derecognition criteria, and consequently, these loans remain on the statement of financial position of the Group.
The Bank therefore recognises a deemed loan financial liability on its statement of financial position and an equivalent deemed loan asset is held on the securitisation vehicles statement of financial position.
As the securitisation vehicle is consolidated into the Group with the Bank the deemed loans net out in the consolidated accounts.
The deemed loans are repaid as and when principal repayments are made by customers against these transferred loans and advances.
The securitisation vehicle has issued fixed and floating rate notes which are secured on loans and advances to customers.
The notes are redeemable in part from time to time, such redemptions being limited to the net capital received from mortgagors in respect of the underlying assets.
The Group retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
The Group benefits to the extent to which surplus income generated by the transferred mortgage portfolios exceeds the administration costs of these mortgages.
The Group continues to bear the credit risk of these mortgage assets.
The results of the securitisation vehicle listed in Note 23 are consolidated into the results of the Group.
The table below shows the carrying value and fair value of the assets transferred to the securitisation vehicle and its associated liabilities.
The carrying value presented below are the carrying amounts recorded in the Group accounts.
Some of the notes issued by the securitisation vehicle are held by the Group and as such are not shown in the consolidated statement of financial position of the Group.
Carrying amount of Carrying Fair value of transferred amount of transferred Fair value of assets not associated assets not associated derecognised liabilities derecognised liabilities Net position 31 December 2015 m m m m m Oak No.
1 Plc 206.5 193.9 209.9 194.8 15.1 Carrying amount of Carrying Fair value of transferred amount of transferred Fair value of assets not associated assets not associated derecognised liabilities derecognised liabilities Net position 31 December 2014 m m m m m Oak No.
Country-by-Country reporting The Capital Requirements Country-by-Country reporting Regulations came into effect in 1 January 2014 and introduce reporting obligations for institutions within the scope of the European Unions Capital Requirements Directive CRD IV.
The requirements aim to give increased transparency regarding the activities of institutions.
All companies consolidated within the Groups financial statements are UK registered entities.
Note 23 to these financial statements includes an analysis of subsidiary undertakings and their principal activities.
All of the subsidiary undertakings were incorporated in England.
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Jurisdiction income expense arose m Total operating income UK 224.7 Profit before tax UK 94.7 Corporation tax paid UK 20.2 Employees average FTE equivalent UK 822 43.
Post balance sheet events There have been no material post balance sheets events.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 181
