Appendices Glossary AIP: Annual Incentive Plan.
Annual bonus scheme that is open to selected senior employees.
ALCO: Asset and Liabilities Committee.
Responsible for managing the Groups exposure to capital, liquidity, interest rate and market risk.
Allowance for impairment losses: Allowances held against assets on the statement of financial position as a result of the raising of a charge against profit for the incurred losses in the lending book.
The allowance represents managements best estimate of losses incurred in the loan portfolio at the reporting date.
AnaCap: See Principal Shareholders below.
Arrears: Customers are said to be in arrears or non-performing when they are behind in fulfilling their obligations with the result that an outstanding loan is unpaid or overdue.
Corporate customers may also be considered non-performing prior to being behind in fulfilling their obligations.
This can happen when a significant restructuring exercise begins.
AT1 Capital: See Contingent Convertible Securities below.
Bank: Aldermore Bank PLC, the principal subsidiary of Aldermore Group PLC.
Basis points bps : One hundredth of a per cent 0.01 per cent.
It is used in quoting movements in interest rates or yields on securities.
BBR: Bank of England Base Rate.
Board: The Board of Directors of Aldermore Group PLC.
Buy-to-Let BTL : A commercial practice of buying a property to let to tenants, rather than for the borrower to live in.
Capital Requirements Directive CRD IV : This encompasses the Capital Requirements Directive and the Capital Requirements Regulation CRR as well as the PRAs Policy Statement PS7 13: Strengthening capital standards.
CRD IV implements Basel III within the European Union including the UK and is a strengthening of the requirements laid out in Basel II.
Capital Requirements Regulation CRR : The European Union has implemented the Basel III capital proposals through the Capital Requirements Regulation CRR and the Capital Requirements Directive CRD, collectively known as CRD IV.
CRD IV was implemented on 1 January 2014.
Capital resources: Capital held, allowable under regulatory rules, less specific regulatory adjustments and deductions that are required to be made.
Capital includes retained earnings, share capital and share premium.
Capital risk: The risk that the Group has insufficient capital to cover regulatory requirements and growth plans.
CEO: Chief Executive Officer, Phillip Monks.
CET1: See Fully loaded CRD IV Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 capital CFO: Chief Financial Officer, James Mack.
Outlines what actions the Group could take to ensure it complies with the liquidity adequacy rules, maintains sufficient capital and operated within its risk appetite and limits, as set and approved by the Board.
Forms part of the Groups Recovery and Resolution Plan see RRP below.
CML: Council of Mortgage Lenders, the main trade body representing UK mortgage lenders, of which Aldermore Bank PLC is a full member.
Collateral: A borrowers pledge, usually a property, which acts as security for repayment of the loan.
Company: Aldermore Group PLC as a standalone entity.
Conduct risk: The risk of detriment to the Groups customers due to the inappropriate execution of its business activities and processes.
188 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Contingent Convertible Securities: Fixed Rate Reset Additional Tier 1 Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities, also referred to as AT1 Capital.
The Group issued 75 million of AT1 securities on the Irish Stock Exchange on 9 December 2014.
COO: Chief Operating Officer, Paul Myers.
Cost of risk: Cost of risk is defined as credit impairment losses divided by average gross loans for a given period.
Cost income ratio: Administrative expenses, including depreciation and amortisation, divided by total operating income.
Coverage ratio: The proportion of individually impaired loans and advances that are covered by individual allowances for impairment losses.
Credit risk: The risk of financial loss arising from a borrower failing to meet their financial obligations to the Group in accordance with agreed terms.
Credit Support Annex CSA : The swap Credit Support Annex agreement requires the Group or a swap counterparty to hold cash in a deposit account, depending on whether the swap is in or out of the money.
CRO: Chief Risk Officer, Steve Barry.
Customers accounts: Money deposited by individuals and companies that are not credit institutions.
Such funds are recorded as liabilities in the Groups statement of financial position under customers accounts.
Debt securities in issue: Securities issued by the Group that are secured on certain portfolios of variable and fixed rate mortgages through the Groups securitisation vehicle, Oak No.
Derivative: A financial instrument that has a value based on the expected future price movements of the instrument to which it is linked.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR : A set of rules implemented by the United Kingdom Listing Authority which covers matters relating to financial reporting.
Effective Interest Rate EIR : The effective interest rate method calculates the amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability, and allocates the interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset or financial liability.
Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account all contractual terms of the financial instrument but includes all amounts received or paid that are an integral part of the overall return, direct incremental transaction costs related to the acquisition or issue of a financial instrument and all other premiums and discounts.
Emergence Period EP : The time between a trigger event occurring and the loans being identified as individually impaired.
Executive Directors: Phillip Monks CEO and James Mack CFO.
Executive Committee: Under the leadership of the CEO, the Executive Committee is responsible for the management of the Group.
Comprises Phillip Monks CEO, James Mack CFO, Steve Barry CRO, Paul Myers COO, Carl DAmmassa Group Managing Director Business Finance, Charles Haresnape Group Managing Director Mortgages, Ali Humphries Group HR Director and Vicki Harris Group Strategy and Marketing Director.
Expected loss EL : A measure of anticipated loss for exposures captured under an internal ratings based credit risk approach.
The 12 month expected loss amount is the exposure, arising from a potential default of a counterparty, over the next 12 months in respect of the amount expected to be outstanding at default.
Exposure at default EaD : An estimate of the amount expected to be owed by a customer at the time of a customers default.
External audit: An independent opinion, by an external firm KPMG LLP, on the Group and Companys financial statements.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 189 Appendices Glossary continued Fair Value: Fair value is defined as the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between willing parties in an arms length transaction.
Financial Conduct Authority FCA : The FSA was replaced as the UKs financial regulator on 1 April 2013 by two new regulatory bodies: the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the FCA.
The FCA is responsible for the regulation of conduct in retail, as well as wholesale, financial markets and the infrastructure that supports those markets.
Financial instruments: Any document with monetary value.
Examples include cash and cash equivalents, but also securities such as bonds and stocks which have value and may be traded in exchange for money.
Financial Services Authority FSA : An independent non-governmental body, given statutory powers by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, which regulated the financial services industry.
It was replaced as the UKs financial regulator on 1 April 2013 by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS : The UKs compensation fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms.
The FSCS may pay compensation to customers, up to a specified limit, if a firm is unable, or likely to be unable, to pay claims against it, usually because it has stopped trading or has been declared in default.
The FSCS is funded by the financial services industry.
Every firm authorised by the PRA is obliged to pay an annual levy, which goes towards its running costs and compensation payments.
Forbearance: Forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the contractual terms of a loan in response to borrowers financial difficulties.
Forbearance options are determined by assessing the customers personal circumstances.
Forced Sale Discount FSD : The difference in sale proceeds between a sale under normal conditions and a sale at auction.
FTSE 250: The share index consisting of the 101st to 350th largest company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Aldermore Group PLC has been a member of the FTSE 250 since June 2015.
Fully loaded CRD IV Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 capital: A measure of capital that is predominantly common equity as defined by the Capital Requirements Regulation.
CET 1 capital is the highest quality of capital and comprises share capital, share premium, capital redemption reserve, available for sale assets and retained earnings.
The book values of goodwill and intangible assets as well as other regulatory adjustments, including the full 12 month amount of expected loss over provisions, are deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 capital for the purposes of capital adequacy.
Funding for Lending Scheme FLS : The Bank of England launched the Funding for Lending scheme.
Originally due to end in January 2015, the FLS was extended for another year in December 2014 and will now end in January 2016.
Gap: The Banks net exposure between fixed and variable rate elements being managed within its market risk, e. g. interest rate movements see Market risk.
Hedging: A technique used by the Group to offset risks on one instrument by purchasing a second instrument that is expected to perform in the opposite way.
Help to Buy: Help to Buy was formed as part of the 2013 Budget announcement by the Government and is part of a package of measures designed to increase the availability of low-deposit mortgages for creditworthy households and to boost the supply of new housing.
HMO: Houses of multiple occupancy.
A property rented out by at least 3 people who are not from 1 household e. g. a family but share facilities like the bathroom and kitchen.
Its sometimes called a house share.
IASB: International Accounting Standards Board.
A London-based organisation which seeks to set and enforce standards for accounting procedures.
It is responsible for maintaining the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
190 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices IFRSs: International Financial Reporting Standards, the accounting standards subject to endorsement by the EU by which the Group prepared its statutory accounts commencing from 1 January 2014.
Impaired loans: Loans where the Group does not expect to collect all the contractual cash flows or expects to collect them later than they are contractually due.
Impairment allowance: A loss allowance held on the statement of financial position as a result of the raising of a charge against profit for the incurred losses in the lending book.
An impairment loss allowance may be either individual or collective.
Independent Non-Executive Directors: A Director that is free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Individual Capital Guidance ICG : The PRAs statement as to the regulatory capital under Pillar 2a that it expects the Group to hold over the Pillar 1 requirement.
Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA : The Groups assessment of its liquidity risks, controls and quantification of liquid assets required to survive severe financial shocks addressed through the use of stress tests prescribed by the PRA see Liquidity risk.
Individually significant: Large value loans that exceed a balance threshold established by the Group, above which it is deemed appropriate to assess accounts for impairment on an individual basis.
Initial Public Offering IPO : The act of offering ordinary equity shares of a company on a public stock exchange for the first time.
The Group completed its IPO on 13 March 2015.
Interest rate risk: The risk of financial loss through un-hedged or mismatched asset and liability positions sensitive to changes in interest rates.
Internal audit: The examination of the Groups records and reports by its employees.
Internal audits are conducted to ensure compliance with Board directives and management policies and are usually intended to prevent fraud.
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP : The Groups own assessment, as part of Basel II and Basel III requirements, of the levels of capital that it needs to hold in respect of its regulatory capital requirements for credit, market and operational risks and for other risks including stress events.
KMP: Key management personnel, namely Directors of the Group and members of the Executive Committee.
Leverage ratio: A CRD IV measure, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to total exposures.
Total exposures include on-balance sheet items, off-balance sheet items and derivatives.
The leverage ratio is a supplementary measure to the risk based capital requirements and is intended to constrain the build-up of excess leverage in the banking sector.
LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate : The interest rate participating banks offer to other banks for loans on the London market.
Liquid Asset Buffer: The stock of assets which the Bank has available in order to manage its liquidity risk.
These assets have relatively short maturity dates.
Liquidity risk: The risk that the Group is not able to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can only do so at excessive cost.
Loan to value LTV : A ratio which expresses the amount of a mortgage outstanding as a percentage of the value of the property.
The Group calculates residential mortgage LTV on an indexed basis the value of the property is updated on a quarterly basis to reflect changes in the house price index HPI.
Loans to Deposit Ratio: The ratio of loans and advances to customers net of allowance for impairment losses divided by customer deposits.
Loss given default LGD : An estimate of the actual loss that would occur in the event of default expressed as a percentage of the Exposure at Default.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 191 Appendices Glossary continued Market risk: The financial impact from movements in market prices on the value of assets and liabilities.
The majority of the Banks market risk arises from changes in interest rates.
Net interest income: The difference between interest received on assets and interest paid on liabilities after taking into account the effect of hedging derivatives.
Net Interest Margin NIM : Net interest income as a percentage of average interest-earning assets.
Net revenue margin: Total operating income as a percentage of average interest-earning assets.
NPL non-performing loans ratio: Individually impaired loans expressed as a percentage of gross loans.
Oak No 1 PLC: The Groups securitisation vehicle.
Operational risk: The risk of financial loss and or reputational damage resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events including financial crime.
Origination: The process of creating or acquiring a loan or mortgage.
Parent Company: Aldermore Group PLC.
Past due: When a counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due.
Pillar 1: Minimum capital requirement under Capital Requirements Regulation.
Principal Shareholders: Collectively AnaCap Financial Partners L. P. AnaCap Financial Partners II L. P. AnaCap Derby Co-Investment No.
1 L. P. and AnaCap Derby Co-Investment No.
2 L. P. Probability of default PD : The likelihood that a loan will not be repaid and will fall into default.
To calculate PD, the Group assesses the credit quality of borrowers and other counterparties and assigns them an internal risk rating.
Prudential Regulation Authority PRA : The FSA was replaced as the UKs financial regulator on 1 April 2013 with two new regulatory bodies: the PRA and the FCA.
The PRA, a subsidiary of the Bank of England, is responsible for promoting the stable and prudent operation of the financial system through regulation of all deposit-taking institutions, insurers and investment banks.
A share plan that is open to selected senior employees.
Pts: Percentage points RAF: Risk Appetite Framework Recovery and Resolution Plan RRP : The FSA required all UK deposit takers and large investment firms to draw up a Recovery and Resolution Plan by 31 December 2012.
The Recovery Plan assesses and documents the recovery options available in situations of financial stress or negative financial shocks, either market-wide or idiosyncratic.
The Resolution Plan will provide authorities with sufficient information to enable them to determine a detailed roadmap to resolve a failed financial institution, without resorting to Government effectively taxpayer support.
Return on Equity RoE : The ratio of profit for the year after tax to average shareholders equity, expressed as a percentage.
Risk Weighted Assets RWA : A measure of a banks assets adjusted for their associated risks.
Risk weightings are established in accordance with Basel II.
RMBS: Residential Mortgage Backed Securities.
The Risk Management Framework outlines the governance, policies, procedures, systems, tools, techniques and activities by which the Board and senior management establish and monitor the Groups risk appetite and effectively manage risk.
192 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices SBP: Share-Based Payments.
Securitisation: Securitisation is a process by which a group of assets, usually loans, are aggregated into a pool, which is used to back the issuance of new securities.
A company sells assets to a securitisation vehicle which then issued securities backed by the assets.
This allows the credit quality of the assets to be separated from the credit rating of the original company.
Assets used in the securitisations undertaken to date include mortgages to create residential mortgage backed securities RMBS.
The Group established Oak No 1 PLC as part of its funding and capital management activities.
Senior Independent Director: Danuta Gray joined the Board as the Senior Independent Director in September 2014.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns that the normal channels of communication to shareholders via the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other Executive Directors have failed to resolve any issues, or for which such channels of communication are inappropriate.
A share plan that is open to all employees.
SMEs: Small and medium sized businesses engaging with the Group as customers.
SREP: Supervisory Review Evaluation Process.
The SREP is a process by which the PRA will taking into account the nature, scale and complexity of a firms activities review the arrangements, strategies, processes and mechanisms implemented by a firm to comply with its regulatory requirements laid down in PRA rules and the CRR, evaluate the risks to which the firm is or might be exposed, assess the risks that the firm poses to the financial system, and evaluate the further risks revealed by stress testing.
Standard Variable Rate SVR : A variable and basic rate of interest charged on a mortgage.
This may change in reaction to market conditions resulting in monthly repayments going up or down.
Within Aldermore the SVR is called the Aldermore Managed Rate AMR.
Strategic risk: The risk which can affect the Groups ability to achieve its corporate and strategic objectives.
The Bank: Aldermore Bank PLC, the principal subsidiary of Aldermore Group PLC.
The Group: The Aldermore Group PLC standalone entity and its subsidiary undertakings, including its principal subsidiary, Aldermore Bank PLC.
Tier 1: A regulatory measure of financial capital strength.
Tier 1 is divided into Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 and Additional Tier 1 capital.
CET 1 capital comprises share capital, share premium, capital redemption reserve, available for sale assets and retained earnings.
The book values of goodwill and intangible assets are deducted from CET1 capital and other regulatory adjustments may be made for the purposes of capital adequacy.
Qualifying capital instruments such as Contingent convertible Securities are included in Additional Tier 1 capital.
Tier 1 ratio: Tier 1 capital divided by Risk Weighted Assets.
Tier 2: Tier 2 capital comprises the Groups subordinated notes and collective impairment allowance for exposures treated on a Basel II standardised basis.
Certain regulatory deductions may be made for the purposes of assessing capital adequacy.
Total capital ratio: The sum of the Tier 1 capital ratio and the Tier 2 capital ratio.
A measure of performance that combines share price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return to the shareholder expressed as an annualised percentage.
Unsecured lending: Lending for which there is no collateral for the loan.
Value at risk VaR : VaR measures the daily maximum potential gain or loss due to market volatility within a statistical confidence level of 95 per cent and a one day holding period.
The VaR methodology employed is historical simulation using a time series of one year to latest day.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 193 Appendices Shareholder information A range of shareholder information is Annual General Meeting AGM Information on your available online at Equinitis website, shareholding The AGM will be held at 10.30am on www.
co. uk, including the 17 May 2016 at the offices of Linklaters The Companys registrars are Equiniti portfolio service which gives you LLP, 1 Silk Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ.
If you have any questions about access to more information on your Further details about the meeting, your shareholding or you require any investments such as balance movements including proposed resolutions, can be other guidance you can contact Equiniti and indicative share prices.
You can found in the Notice of AGM which will as follows: also obtain forms that you may need to be posted to shareholders and made manage your shareholding for example Equiniti available on the Companys website at a change of address form or a stock Aspect House www.
co. uk transfer form and can register your Spencer Road Reports and communications email address to receive shareholder Lancing information and the Annual Report and West Sussex The Group issues regulatory Accounts electronically.
BN99 6DA announcements through the Regulatory News Service RNS : shareholders can Tel: 0371 384 2030 Share price information view releases via the News and Results Shareholders can access both the latest Overseas: 44 0 121 415 7047 section of the Companys website at and historical share prices via our website www.
You will Lines open 8:30am to 5:30pm Monday at www.
co. uk as well also find frequently asked questions and to Friday.
as in listings in most national newspapers.
For a real-time buying or selling price, you A summary of our statutory reports and will need to contact a stockbroker.
shareholder communications which can also be found in the News and Results section of the Companys website are listed below: Available format Month Online RNS Paper Email Preliminary results Mar Annual Report and Accounts Apr Pillar 3 report Apr Notice of AGM and voting materials Apr Q1 update May Interim results Aug Q3 update Nov 194 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices If you have any concerns whatsoever, do Electronic shareholder Share dealing facilities not take any action and do not part with communications Please note that the Company itself any money without being certain that: does not endorse any one service for Shareholders can choose to receive all the buying and selling of its shares that Company information, such as the Annual You fully understand the transaction may be offered by Equiniti and you are Report and Accounts and AGM notice, You know who you are dealing with free to buy and sell your shares through electronically.
This way of receiving and that they are registered with and any broker.
information has a number of advantages authorised by the FCA including quicker delivery of documents Share fraud warning You have consulted a financial adviser and the ability to access reports and to shareholders if you have any doubts.
Remember, if it results on the internet wherever you are.
sounds too good to be true, it almost In recent years, a number of other There are also cost and environmental certainly is.
You run the risk of losing any companies have become aware that their benefits due to the reduction in printing, money you pay out shareholders have received unsolicited packaging and posting costs.
phone calls or correspondence If you are worried that you may already Registering for electronic shareholder concerning investment matters.
These are have been a victim of fraud, report the communications is very straightforward typically from overseas based brokers facts immediately using the Action and can be done online at any time at who target UK shareholders, offering Fraud Helpline.
co. uk, which is a website to sell them what often turn out to be provided by our registrar, Equiniti.
Action Fraud Helpline 0300 123 2040 worthless or high-risk shares in US or www.
These operations are Further information on the options commonly known as boiler rooms.
available to you for receiving shareholder More information about boiler room These brokers can be very persistent communications is included with the and other investment-type frauds can also and extremely persuasive.
Please note that if be found at www.
uk scams aware of any Aldermore Group investors you do not return the Response Form having been targeted, but we would urge included with the mailing by 6 May 2016, you to remain vigilant.
we will assume that you have consented to being notified by hard copy letter It is not just the novice investor that has whenever documents are available on the been duped in this way: many of the Companys website and you will no longer victims had been successfully investing receive hard copies by post.
You are free for several years.
5,000 people contact at any time to change your mind and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA elect to receive paper documentation about share fraud each year, with victims by contacting Equiniti using the contact losing an average of 20,000 details noted on page 194.
If you do not know the source of a call, check the details through the FCA website, www.
uk, and if you have any specific information, report it to the FCA using the Consumer Helpline 0800 111 6768 or the online reporting form at www.
uk scams Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 195 Appendices Key contact information Company information Registered office and contact details: Aldermore Group PLC, 4th Floor Block D, Apex Plaza Forbury Road Reading RG1 1AX Registered in England Company number: 06764335 Corporate website: www.
co. uk Investor Relations website: www.
co. uk Company Secretary: company.
co. uk Registrar Equiniti Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Shareholder helpline 0371 384 2030 from within the UK 44 0 121 415 7047 from outside the UK Lines open 8:30am to 5:30pm Monday to Friday.
co. uk 196 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Aldermore are committed to caring for the environment and looking for sustainable ways to minimise our impact on it.
Printed by L&S Printing Company Ltd who are certified to ISO 14001 environmental management system.
Printed using vegetable oil based inks.
This report is printed on Chorus Lux Silk which contains material sourced from responsibly managed forests, certified in accordance with the FSC r Forest Stewardship Council.
This ensures that there is an audited chain of custody from the tree in the well-managed MIX forest through t o the finished document in the printing factory.
Paper from responsible sources ISO 14001.
A pattern of control for an environmental management system against which an organisation can be accredited FSC C014531 www.
org by a third party Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Aldermore Group PLC Registered Office: Apex Plaza 4th Floor Block D Forbury Road Reading Berkshire RG1 1AX United Kingdom aldermore.
