Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 89 Information for shareholders Information held on the Companys Register of Members is, Incorporation by law, information to which the public may, for a proper Alliance Trust PLC is incorporated in Scotland with the purpose, have access and the Company cannot prevent any registered number 1731. person inspecting it or having copies of it for such purpose, on payment of the statutory fee.
The Companys Register of Members is held at Computershare Investor Services PLC, Annual Report and Electronic Leven House, 10 Lochside Place, Edinburgh Park, Edinburgh EH12 9DF Communications We only send paper Annual Reports to shareholders who General Enquiries have asked us to do so.
All shareholders receive notices of our meetings and information on how to access our Annual Report.
If you have an enquiry about the Company, or wish to receive a Shareholders can opt to receive all notifications electronically by paper copy of our Annual Report, please contact the Company going to www.
htm which will provide a Secretary at our registered office: link to our registrars website.
8 West Marketgait, Dundee DD1 1QN Taxation Tel: 01382 321000 Fax: 01382 321185 Email: investor@alliancetrust.
co. uk If you are in any doubt about your liability to tax arising from a shareholding in the Company you should seek For security and compliance monitoring purposes telephone professional advice.
Income Tax Investor Relations Dividends paid by the Company carry a tax credit at 10% of the Our Director of Investor Relations can be contacted at our gross dividend.
Dividends are paid net of the tax credit.
If you hold your shares in your own name, the tax voucher Our website www.
co. uk contains information about which you need for your tax records will be sent to the address the Company, including daily share price and net asset value.
we have for you on the register maintained by Computershare.
The Registrar will send a consolidated tax voucher to members after the final dividend during the tax year is paid.
Registrars If your dividends are received by a nominee, such as your Our registrars are: stockbrokers nominee, you must contact that person for the tax Computershare Investor Services PLC voucher.
If you invest in the Company through Alliance Trust PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Savings, it will automatically supply you with a consolidated Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH income tax voucher for income received for you in the Investment Dealing Account.
Change of address notifications and registration enquiries for shareholdings registered in your own name should be sent to the Companys registrars at the above address.
You should Capital Gains Tax also contact the registrars if you would like the dividends on For investors who purchased shares prior to 31 March 1982, the shares registered in your own name to be sent to your bank cost of those shares for capital gains tax purposes is deemed to or building society account.
You may check your holdings and be the price of the share on that date.
The market value of each view other information about Alliance Trust shares registered in Alliance Trust PLC ordinary 25p share on that date was 2.85 your own name at www.
which, when adjusted for the split on a 10 for 1 basis on 21 June 2006, gives an equivalent value of 0.285 per share.
The market value of each Second Alliance Trust PLC ordinary 25p Data Protection share on 31 March 1982 was 2.35.
Holders of Second Alliance The Company is a data controller as defined under the Trust PLC shares received 8.7453 ordinary 2.5p shares for each Data Protection Act 1998.
Information received from or about 25p ordinary share they held on 20 June 2006 and are treated shareholders or investors for example from a stockbroker, as though they acquired these shares at the same time and at whether by telephone or in writing, by fax or by any other the same cost as the Second Alliance Trust shares they previously held.
This gives an equivalent value of 0.269 per share.
electronic or digital means of communication may be processed.
90 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 recommend that if you wish to sell your shares you only deal Share investment with a financial services firm that is authorised by the FCA.
Alliance Trust PLC invests primarily in equities and aims to generate capital growth and a progressively rising dividend from its portfolio of investments.
Annual General Meeting Alliance Trust currently conducts its affairs so that its shares The 128th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be can be recommended by IFAs to ordinary retail investors in held at 11.00am on Friday 6 May 2016 at the Gardyne Theatre, accordance with the FCAs rules in relation to non-mainstream Dundee and Angus College, Gardyne Road, Dundee DD5 1NY.
The Notice of Meeting, detailing the business of the meeting, is investment products and intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment products because they are Financial calendar shares in an investment trust.
Proposed dividend payment dates for the financial year to The shares in Alliance Trust may also be suitable for institutional 31 December 2016 are on or around: investors who seek a combination of capital and income return.
30 June 2016 Private investors should consider consulting an independent 30 September 2016 financial adviser who specialises in advising on the acquisition of shares and other securities before acquiring shares.
30 December 2016 31 March 2017 Investors should be capable of evaluating the risks and merits of such an investment and should have sufficient resources to bear any loss that may result.
Dividend Tax Allowance From April 2016 dividend tax credits will be replaced by an Risks annual 5,000 tax-free allowance across an individuals entire share portfolio.
Above this amount, individuals will pay tax on If you wish to acquire shares in the Company, you should take their dividend income at a rate dependent on their income tax professional advice as to whether an investment in our shares is bracket and personal circumstances.
Our Registrars will continue suitable for you.
You should be aware that: to provide registered shareholders with a confirmation of the Investment should be made for the long term.
dividends paid by Alliance Trust PLC and this should be included with any other dividend income received when calculating and The price of a share will be affected by the supply and reporting total dividend income received.
It is the Shareholders demand for it and may not fully represent the underlying responsibility to include all Dividend Income when calculating value of the assets of the Company.
The price generally tax requirements.
stands below the net asset value of the Company at a discount but it may also stand above it at a premium.
This change was announced by the Chancellor, as part of the Your capital return will depend upon the movement of the UK government Budget, in July 2015.
If you have any Tax discount premium over the period you own the share, as well queries, please contact your Financial Advisor.
as the capital performance of the Companys own assets.
The assets owned by the Company may have exposure Common Reporting Standards to currencies other than Sterling.
Changes in market From January 2016 you may receive requests from our Registrar movements and in rates of exchange may cause the value for personal information to comply with new legal obligations of your investment to go up or down.
introduced to reduce tax evasion.
To provide HMRC with Past performance is not a guide to the future.
What you get information on shareholders.
While it is not compulsory that back will depend on investment performance.
You may not you complete and return these requests we are required by law get back the amount you invest.
to make these requests and to report on the responses received.
Please note that only a small number of our shareholders fall Bogus telephone calls into the category where we have to make theses requests and only those shareholders will receive the request.
If you have We have become aware of a numbers of telephone calls being any queries on the validity of any document received from our made to shareholders wherein the caller offers to buy the registrars you can contact them directly on 0870 889 3187. recipients shares at a price significantly above the current market price.
We are prohibited from advising shareholders on whether to buy or to sell shares in Alliance Trust PLC, but
