Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 57 Notes 1 General Information Alliance Trust PLC was incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Acts 1862-1886.
The address of the registered office is given on page 90.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are a global investment trust.
The following notes refer to the year ended 31 December 2015 and the comparatives, which are in brackets, for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the group operates.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of the financial statements necessarily requires the exercise of judgement, both in application of accounting policies, which are set out below, and in the selection of assumptions used in the calculation of estimates.
These estimates and judgements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are continually evaluated based on historical experience and other factors.
However, actual results may differ from these estimates.
The most significantly affected components of the financial statements and associated critical judgements are as follows: Valuation of unlisted investments Investments which are not listed or which are not frequently traded are stated at the Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same or similar instruments.
Investments in subsidiary investments are valued in the Company and Group accounts at the Directors' estimate of their fair value, using the guidelines and methodologies on valuation published by the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Association and, where relevant the use of external valuers.
With respect specifically to investments in private equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors rely on unaudited valuations of the underlying investments as supplied by the managers of those funds or partnerships.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers to those valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the above policies.
Defined benefit scheme The estimation of the expected cash flows used in the calculation of the defined benefit pension scheme's liabilities includes a number of assumptions around mortality and inflation rates applicable to defined benefit pension schemes.
More detail is given in note 25 of the financial statements.
The Directors take actuarial advice when selecting these assumptions and when selecting the discount rate used to calculate the defined benefit pension scheme surplus.
2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail can be found on page 33.
Basis of accounting The same accounting policies, presentations and methods of computation are followed in these financial statements as were applied in the Groups last annual audited financial statements, other than those stated below.
Both the parent Company and the Group financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRSs.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except that investments and investment properties are stated at fair value and office premises are revalued on a periodic basis.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in November 2014, is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, then the Directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
The Group and the Company have prepared the financial statements under the SORP save for the matters noted below.
The Company allocates direct costs, including expenses incidental to the purchase and sale of investments and incentive awards deemed to be performance related pursuant to the SORP against capital profits.
However, the Company treatment varies with the recommendation of the SORP that either a proportion of all indirect expenditure or no indirect expenditure is allocated against capital profits.
The Company allocates indirect expenditure against revenue profits save that two thirds of the costs of bank indebtedness, an indirect cost, are allocated against capital profits save for the costs associated with seeding the fixed income bond fund which are all charged to revenue.
The allocation of the costs of bank indebtedness reflects the long term return expected from the Companys investment portfolio.
Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 An amendment to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements was introduced and became effective from 1 January 2014.
This amendment included additional accounting requirements for entities regarded as an investment entity and where the definition of an investment entity was met, consolidated financial statements were no longer required in prescribed circumstances.
An investment entity is required to measure an investment in a subsidiary at fair value through the income statement in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments:Recognition and Measurement if it meets specified criteria.
An investment entity is still required however to consolidate any subsidiary entity where that subsidiary provides services that relate directly to the investment entity's investment activities and is not itself regarded as an investment entity.
The Company qualifies as an investment entity under IFRS 10 meeting all the key characteristics required and as such is no longer permitted to consolidate the majority of its subsidiaries on a line by line basis, but instead recognise them as investments at fair value through the income statement.
"The consolidated financial statements therefore incorporate the financial statements of the Company and Alliance Trust Services Limited 'ATSL' as a result of the application of the ""Investment Entities"" exemption noted above."
All other entities controlled by the Company are recorded at fair value through the income statement.
"They are included within the ""Investments at fair value"" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as they are no longer controlled on a line by line basis."
ATSL acts as a payment agent and employer for all entities within the corporate structure and as such provides services that relate directly to the investment activities of the Company.
All intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses with the entity are eliminated on consolidation.
58 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies The following subsidiaries and related companies have not been consolidated into the Group results and have been valued at fair value through the income statement: Shares Country of Name held incorporation Principal Activity Alliance Trust Savings Limited 'ATS' Ordinary Scotland Provision and administration of investment and pension products Alliance Trust Savings England Limited 'ATS England ' Ordinary England Inactive Alliance Trust Finance Limited 'ATF' Ordinary Scotland Asset holding in liquidation AT2006 Limited 'AT2006' Ordinary Scotland Intermediate holding company Second Alliance Trust Limited 'SATL' Ordinary Scotland Inactive Second Alliance Leasing Limited 'SAL' Ordinary Scotland Inactive in liquidation Alliance Trust Real Estate Partners GP Limited 'ATREP GP' Ordinary Scotland Real estate general partner Alliance Trust Real Estate Partners LP ATREP LP - Scotland Limited partnership Alliance Trust Investments Limited 'ATI' Ordinary Scotland Investment management Alliance Trust Investments England Limited 'ATI England ' Ordinary England Inactive Intermediate holding company in Alliance Trust Equity Partners Holdings Limited 'ATEP' Ordinary Scotland liquidation Alliance Trust Equity Partners Limited 'ATEPL' Ordinary Scotland Investment management Albany Venture Managers GP Limited 'AVMGP' Ordinary Scotland Private equity general partner Alliance Trust PE Manco Limited 'AT PE Manco' Ordinary Scotland Inactive in liquidation ATEP 2008 GP Limited 'ATEP 2008GP' Ordinary Scotland Private equity general partner ATEP 2009 GP Limited 'ATEP 2009GP' Ordinary Scotland Private equity general partner Allsec Nominees Limited Ordinary Scotland Nominee Alliance Trust Savings Nominees Limited Ordinary Scotland Nominee Alliance Trust Investment Funds ICVC 'ATIF' Ordinary Scotland UK domiciled Open Ended Investment Company Alliance Trust Sustainable Future ICVC 'ATSF' Ordinary Scotland UK domiciled Open Ended Investment Company The same accounting policies, presentations and methods of computation are followed in these financial statements as were applied in the Group's last annual audited financial statements.
Adopted IFRSs Amendments to the following IFRSs were applicable for the year ended 31 December 2015: IAS 19 Amendments to consider contributions from employees for defined benefit plans IFRSs not yet applied The following standards and interpretations which have been endorsed by the European Union but are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2015 and have not been applied in preparing the financial statements but are relevant to the financial statements of the Group and the Company: Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities IAS 1 Disclosure initiative IAS 16 and IAS 38 Depreciation and Amortisation IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 11 Accounting for depreciation and amortisation Any required changes will be applicable to the financial statements of the Company and Group for the year ended 31 December 2016 and future years and are expected to impact the Company and Groups accounting for financial assets and liabilities and the disclosures thereof.
The Directors do not believe that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Company or the Group in future years.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 59 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and Alliance Trust Services Limited as a result of the application of the Investment Entities exemption from consolidation required by IFRS 10.
They are included within the Investments held at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as they are no longer controlled on a line by line basis.
Alliance Trust Services Limited acts as a payment agent and employer for all entities within the corporate structure and as such provides services that relate directly to the investment activities of the Company.
"Presentation of income statement In order to reflect the activities of an investment trust more accurately, and in accordance with guidance issued by the Association of Investment Companies ""AIC"", supplementary information which analyses the income statement between items of a revenue and capital nature have been presented alongside the income statement."
Net capital returns are not generally distributed by way of a dividend but a dividend has been paid out of capital reserves in the current year Note 17.
Revenue recognition Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established, normally the exdividend date.
Where the Group has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of shares received over the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as a capital gain in the income statement.
Rental income from investment property and income from mineral rights is recognised on a time-apportioned basis.
Interest income is accrued on a time-apportioned basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Special dividends receivable are treated as repayment of capital or as income depending on the facts of each particular case.
Underwriting commission is recognised as earned.
Expenses connected with rental income and mineral rights are included as administrative expenses.
Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than Sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange applicable to the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary items and non-monetary assets and liabilities that are stated at fair value and are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included as capital net profit or loss for the year where investments are classified as fair value through profit or loss.
Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
In respect of the analysis between revenue and capital items presented within the income statement, all expenses have been presented as revenue items except as follows: Expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of an investment are included within the cost of that investment.
Expenses which are incidental to the disposal of an investment are deducted from the disposal proceeds of that investment.
Annual bonus and Long Term Incentive Plan costs which relate to the achievement of investment manager performance objectives, total shareholder return and net asset value performance objectives are allocated against capital profits and those that relate to the achievement of other corporate targets or job performance objectives against revenue profits save for those costs associated with the monthly income bond fund which are all allocated to revenue costs.
The Directors have determined to allocate two thirds of the cost of bank indebtedness incurred to finance investment against capital profits with the balance being allocated against revenue profits save for those costs associated with the fixed income bond fund which are all allocated to revenue costs.
Operating leases Charges for operating leases are debited to the income statement on an accruals basis.
Note 26 Operating lease commitments discloses the commitments to pay charges for leases expiring within 1 year, between 2-5 years and over 5 years.
Share based payments The Group operates two share based payment schemes, the All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP and the Long Term Incentive Plans LTIP.
The cost of the AESOP is recognised as a revenue cost in the year.
The fair value of options granted to employees under the LTIP is recognised as staff costs, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the year in which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense may be adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest.
For share based compensation schemes settled by the Company a recharge equal to the cost during the year is made to subsidiary companies.
Investment incentive plan The Equity Annual Incentive Plan is a discretionary plan for members of the investment team.
It consists of matching awards which are based upon the proportion of annual bonus set aside in the scheme by the participants either in the form of cash or shares in the funds which they manage.
The awards are settled in cash at the end of a three year performance period subject to meeting predefined performance targets.
60 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Pension costs Employer contributions to pension arrangements for staff are charged to revenue costs.
Contributions in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme are calculated by reference to actuarial valuations carried out for the Trustees at intervals of not more than three years, and represent a charge to cover the accrued liabilities on a continuing basis.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of comprehensive income in the year in which they occur.
Taxation The Company carries on its business as an investment trust and conducts its affairs so as to qualify as such under the provisions of Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The tax expense predominantly represents the sum of the withholding tax suffered on foreign dividends.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the income statement is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the income statement, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recorded within equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and where they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Neither the Company or the Group recognise deferred tax assets or liabilities on capital profits or losses on the basis that the investment trust status of the Company means no tax is due on the capital profits or losses of the Company.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group will only offset financial assets and financial liabilities if it has a legally enforceable right of set off and intends to settle on a net basis.
Derivative financial instruments The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in market prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative transactions which the Group may enter include interest rate futures and swaps.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value on the date on which the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The fair value of the forward currency contract is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts of similar maturity dates.
Changes in fair value of derivatives financial instruments are recognised in the Income Statement.
The effective portion of change in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Investments Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date where a purchase or sale is made under a contract whose terms require delivery within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Investments, which include collective investment schemes, are principally designated as fair value through profit and loss upon initial recognition not including transaction costs.
Listed investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Investments in property are initially recognised at cost and then valued at fair value based on an independent professional valuation at the reporting date, with changes in fair value recognised through the income statement.
Disposals of investment property are recognised when contracts for sale have been exchanged and the sale has been completed.
Investments which are not listed or which are not frequently traded are valued at the Directors' best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arm's length transactions in the same or similar instruments.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 61 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Investments in subsidiary companies are valued in the Companys accounts at the Directors estimate of their fair value, using the guidelines and methodologies on valuation published by the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Association and where relevant the use of external valuers.
For investments in private equity, the Directors make use of unaudited valuations of the underlying investments as supplied by the managers of those private equity funds.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by those managers to ensure they are in compliance with the Companys policies.
Valuation of mineral rights, included in unlisted investments is based upon the gross income received from the asset in the previous twelve months multiplied by appropriate factors for gas and oil.
Mineral rights are included in unlisted investments.
Foreign exchange gains and losses for fair-value designated investments are included within the changes in its fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
Other receivables Other receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Office premises Office premises are valued annually by chartered surveyors on the basis of market value in accordance with the RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards.
No depreciation has been charged on these assets as, in the opinion of the Board, any provision for depreciation would be immaterial.
Intangible assets The external costs associated with the development and procurement of significant technology systems are capitalised where it is probable that the expected future economic benefit of that system will flow to the entity.
They are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
On the completion of each project amortisation is charged so as to write off the value of these assets over periods up to five years.
Other fixed assets Other fixed assets are held at cost less accumulated depreciation, which is charged to write off the value of the asset over three to five years.
Impairment At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated to determine the extent of any impairment loss if any.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Unsecured fixed rate loan notes and bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for through the income statement on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the year in which they arise.
Unsecured fixed rate loan notes are recorded at the proceeds received.
After initial recognition, they are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Finance charges are accounted for through the income statement on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate method.
Other payables Other payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Buy backs and cancellation of shares The costs of acquiring own shares for cancellation, together with any associated trading costs, are written back to distributable reserves.
Share capital is reduced by the nominal value of the shares bought back with an equivalent entry made to the capital redemption reserve.
Realised and unrealised capital reserves A description of each of the reserves follows: Capital reserve The following are recorded through this reserve: Gains and losses on realisation of investments Changes in fair value of investments Realised exchange differences of a capital nature Purchases of shares by the Trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust Payment of capital dividends 62 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Amounts recognised in relation to share based payments which are capital in nature Amounts by which other assets and liabilities valued at fair value differ from their book value Buy back and cancellation of own shares Amounts recognised in relation to the defined benefit pensions scheme Revaluation reserve This reserve is used to record changes in the valuation of the office premises.
A downward revaluation in office premises is charged to the income statement to the extent that there is no earlier upward revaluation in this reserve for those premises.
Merger reserve This reserve was created as part of the arrangements for the acquisition of the assets of SATL.
Capital redemption reserve This reserve was created on the cancellation and repayment of the Companys preference share capital.
Further movements in this reserve reflects the nominal value of the buy back and cancellation of a portion of the share capital of the Company.
Revenue reserve Net revenue profits and losses of the Company and its subsidiaries and the fair value costs of share based payments which are revenue in nature are recorded within this reserve, together with the dividend payments made by the Company.
