Notes to the financial statements 1 General information Prior to the application of IFRS 10, the Group consolidated Ashmore Group plc the Company is a public limited company listed investments where its shareholding resulted in control, as defined on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in by IFRS.
This policy has not changed subsequent to the adoption of IFRS 10.
However, the change to the definition of control under the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended IFRS 10 means that certain of the Groups funds, principally where 30 June 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on the Group holds seed capital investments, now meet the definition of a subsidiary as they are deemed to be controlled by the Group.
The principal activity of the Group is described in the Directors report on page 66.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements outlines the classification and accounting for jointly controlled arrangements that involve 2 Basis of preparation contractually agreed sharing of control.
An arrangement subject The Group and Company financial statements have been prepared to joint control under IFRS 11 is classified as either a joint venture in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS representing a share of net assets, accounted for using the equity as adopted by the European Union EU effective for the Groups method or a joint operation representing rights to assets and reporting for the year ended 30 June 2015 and applied in accordance obligations for liabilities, accounted for accordingly.
The adoption with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. of this Standard has not resulted in any impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities requires certain basis under the historical cost convention, except for the additional disclosures to be made in respect of the Groups measurement at fair value of certain financial assets that are interests in the funds it manages but does not control, as defined available-for-sale or classified as fair value through profit or loss.
These disclosures are included in note 28.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 which allows it not to present its Change in accounting policy individual statement of comprehensive income and related notes.
The Group adopted the indirect method of presenting cash generated from operations in the Group consolidated cash flow statement with The preparation of financial statements requires management to effect from 1 July 2014. make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, In accordance with IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows, the Group income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions has elected to present cash generated from operations using are based on historical experience and various other factors that the indirect method i. e. presenting a line-by-line reconciliation are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of operating profit to net cash from operating activities on the face of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying of the consolidated cash flow statement.
Previously, the Group values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from presented cash generated from operations using the direct method other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
i. e. presenting cash receipts from customers less cash paid to Further information about key assumptions and other key sources suppliers and employees on the face of the cash flow statement.
of estimation and areas of judgement are set out in note 33.
The Group believes that the indirect method provides additional information regarding the items that affect cash flows generated 3 Effects of new and amended IFRSs from operating activities.
Comparative consolidated cash flow New standards, interpretations and amendments statement information has also been restated to reflect the new adopted during the year presentation: however, this did not result in any impact on the The following standards and amendments to standards relevant to current or prior periods cash flows generated from operations.
the Groups operations were adopted with effect from 1 July 2014.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements redefines the concept At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial statements of control for consolidation purposes and its adoption has led to the following standards and interpretations relevant to the Groups four additional funds being consolidated where the Group is now operations were issued by the IASB but are not yet mandatory.
deemed to hold a controlling interest, as defined by this accounting The Group is assessing the impact of these standards on the Groups Standard.
This has resulted in the total assets and liabilities of those future consolidated financial statements.
funds being consolidated on a line-by-line basis within the Groups consolidated balance sheet, and the third-party interest in the consolidated funds being recorded within liabilities.
There is no impact on the net assets or total comprehensive income of the Group.
The Groups previously reported consolidated balance sheets from 1 July 2013 and consolidated cash flows for the year ended 30 June 2014 have been restated to include the consolidation of those funds.
Further details on the effect of the restatement on the Groups consolidated financial statements are set out in note 31.
80 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 80 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements 1 General information Prior to the application of IFRS 10, the Group consolidated IFRS 9 Financial instruments was originally issued in November Interests in subsidiaries 2009, and the finalised version, incorporating requirements for Ashmore Group plc the Company is a public limited company listed investments where its shareholding resulted in control, as defined Subsidiaries are those entities, including investment funds, over classification and measurement, impairment, general hedge on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in by IFRS.
This policy has not changed subsequent to the adoption which the Group has control as defined by IFRS 10.
However, the change to the definition of control under accounting and derecognition, was issued in July 2014.
The consolidated financial statements of the control if it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its replaces the classification and measurement models for financial Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended IFRS 10 means that certain of the Groups funds, principally where involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns instruments in IAS 39 with three classification categories: 30 June 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on the Group holds seed capital investments, now meet the definition through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of of a subsidiary as they are deemed to be controlled by the Group.
amortised cost, fair value through profit or loss and fair value 7 September 2015.
The principal activity of the Group is described in subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the Directors report on page 66. through other comprehensive income.
Under IFRS 9, the Groups the date on which control commences until the date when control IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements outlines the classification and business model and the contractual cash flows arising from its accounting for jointly controlled arrangements that involve ceases.
The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an entity 2 Basis of preparation investments in financial instruments will determine the appropriate if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or contractually agreed sharing of control.
An arrangement subject The Group and Company financial statements have been prepared classification.
All equity investments within the scope of IFRS 9 are more of the elements of control.
to joint control under IFRS 11 is classified as either a joint venture in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS to be measured at fair value, with gains or losses reported either in representing a share of net assets, accounted for using the equity The profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive as adopted by the European Union EU effective for the Groups the statement of comprehensive income or, by election, through method or a joint operation representing rights to assets and income are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the reporting for the year ended 30 June 2015 and applied in accordance other comprehensive income.
However, where fair value gains and obligations for liabilities, accounted for accordingly.
The adoption Group and to any non-controlling interests.
Based on their nature, with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. losses are recorded through other comprehensive income there of this Standard has not resulted in any impact on the Groups the interests of third-parties in consolidated funds are classified as will no longer be a requirement to transfer gains or losses to the consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern liabilities and appear as Third-party interests in consolidated funds statement of comprehensive income on impairment or disposal.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities requires certain basis under the historical cost convention, except for the on the Groups balance sheet.
Associates and joint ventures are In addition, IFRS 9 introduces an expected loss model for the additional disclosures to be made in respect of the Groups measurement at fair value of certain financial assets that are presented as single line items in the statement of comprehensive assessment of impairment.
The current model under IAS 39 interests in the funds it manages but does not control, as defined available-for-sale or classified as fair value through profit or loss.
income and balance sheet see note 27.
Intercompany transactions incurred loss model requires the Group to recognise impairment by IFRS 10.
These disclosures are included in note 28. and balances are eliminated on consolidation.
Consistent accounting The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section losses when there is objective evidence that an asset is impaired.
policies have been applied across the Group in the preparation of the 408 of the Companies Act 2006 which allows it not to present its Change in accounting policy Under the expected loss model, impairment losses are recorded if consolidated financial statements as at 30 June 2015. individual statement of comprehensive income and related notes.
The Group adopted the indirect method of presenting cash generated there is an expectation of credit losses, even in the absence of a default event.
The Group does not anticipate that this will have a A change in the ownership interest of a consolidated entity that from operations in the Group consolidated cash flow statement with The preparation of financial statements requires management to does not result in a loss of control by the Group is accounted for as effect from 1 July 2014. material impact on its results.
IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a consolidated beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and has yet to be endorsed application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, In accordance with IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows, the Group entity, it derecognises the related assets, goodwill, liabilities, for use in the EU.
The estimates and associated assumptions has elected to present cash generated from operations using non-controlling interest and other components of equity, and any IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers deals with are based on historical experience and various other factors that the indirect method i. e. presenting a line-by-line reconciliation gain or loss is recognised in consolidated comprehensive income.
revenue recognition and establishes a single, principles-based are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of operating profit to net cash from operating activities on the face Any investment retained is recognised at its fair value at the date of model to be applied to all contracts with customers.
Revenue is of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying of the consolidated cash flow statement.
Previously, the Group loss of control.
recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from presented cash generated from operations using the direct method and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits other sources.
i. e. presenting cash receipts from customers less cash paid to Interests in associates and joint arrangements from the good or service.
IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and Further information about key assumptions and other key sources suppliers and employees on the face of the cash flow statement.
Associates are partly owned entities over which the Group has IAS 11 Construction Contracts and related interpretations.
The of estimation and areas of judgement are set out in note 33.
The Group believes that the indirect method provides additional significant influence but no control.
Joint ventures are entities through Standard provides guidance on topics such as the point at which information regarding the items that affect cash flows generated which the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity 3 Effects of new and amended IFRSs revenue is recognised, accounting for variable consideration, costs from operating activities.
Comparative consolidated cash flow which is subject to joint control.
of fulfilling and obtaining a contract and various related matters.
New standards, interpretations and amendments statement information has also been restated to reflect the new New disclosures about revenue are also introduced.
IFRS 15 is adopted during the year Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are presentation: however, this did not result in any impact on the effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 measured using the equity method of accounting.
Under this method, The following standards and amendments to standards relevant to current or prior periods cash flows generated from operations.
and has yet to be endorsed for use in the EU.
the investments are initially recognised at cost, including attributable the Groups operations were adopted with effect from 1 July 2014. goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition changes New standards and interpretations not yet adopted No other standards or interpretations issued and not yet effective IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements redefines the concept in the Groups share of net assets.
The Groups share of postAt the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial statements are expected to have an impact on the Groups consolidated of control for consolidation purposes and its adoption has led to acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the statement of the following standards and interpretations relevant to the Groups financial statements.
four additional funds being consolidated where the Group is now comprehensive income.
operations were issued by the IASB but are not yet mandatory.
deemed to hold a controlling interest, as defined by this accounting 4 Significant accounting policies The Group is assessing the impact of these standards on the Groups Where the Groups financial year is not coterminous with those Standard.
This has resulted in the total assets and liabilities of those The following principal accounting policies have been applied future consolidated financial statements.
funds being consolidated on a line-by-line basis within the Groups of its associates or joint ventures, unaudited interim financial consistently where applicable to all years presented in dealing information is used after appropriate adjustments have been made.
consolidated balance sheet, and the third-party interest in the with items which are considered material in relation to the Group consolidated funds being recorded within liabilities.
There is no and Company financial statements, unless otherwise stated.
Interests in consolidated structured entities impact on the net assets or total comprehensive income of the The Group acts as fund manager to investment funds that are Group.
The Groups previously reported consolidated balance Basis of consolidation considered to be structured entities.
Structured entities are entities sheets from 1 July 2013 and consolidated cash flows for the The consolidated financial statements of the Group comprise the that have been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the year ended 30 June 2014 have been restated to include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, associates dominant factor in deciding which party has control: for example, consolidation of those funds.
Further details on the effect of the and joint ventures.
This includes an Employee Benefit Trust EBT when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the restatement on the Groups consolidated financial statements established for the employee share-based awards and consolidated relevant activities of the entity are directed by means of contractual are set out in note 31. investment funds.
The Groups assets under management are managed within structured entities.
These structured entities typically consist of unitised vehicles such as Socits dInvestissement Capital Variable SICAVs, limited partnerships, unit trusts and open-ended and closedended vehicles which entitle third-party investors to a percentage of the vehicles net asset value.
80 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Foreign currency transactions The Group has interests in structured entities as a result of the Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective management of assets on behalf of its clients.
Where the Group functional currency of the Group entities at the spot exchange rates holds a direct interest in a closed-ended fund, private equity fund or at the date of the transactions.
open-ended pooled fund such as a SICAV, the interest is accounted Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies for either as a consolidated structured entity or as a financial asset, at the balance sheet date are translated into the functional currency depending on whether the Group has control over the fund or not.
at the spot exchange rate at that date.
Non-monetary assets and Control is determined in accordance with IFRS 10, based on an liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign assessment of the level of power and aggregate economic interest currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of that the Group has over the fund, relative to third-party investors.
Power is normally conveyed to the Group through the existence Foreign currency differences arising on translation are generally of an investment management agreement and or other contractual recognised in comprehensive income.
Aggregate economic interest is a measure of the differences arising from the translation of the following items are Groups exposure to variable returns in the fund through a recognised in other comprehensive income: combination of direct interest, carried interest, expected management fees, fair value gains or losses, and distributions receivable from available-for-sale equity instruments: and the fund.
qualifying cash flow hedges to the extent that the hedge is effective.
The Group concludes that it acts as a principal when the power it has over the fund is deemed to be exercised for self-benefit, considering Foreign operations the level of aggregate economic exposure in the fund and the The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill assessed strength of third-party investors kick-out rights.
The Group and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated concludes that it acts as an agent when the power it has over the into Sterling at the spot exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
fund is deemed to be exercised for the benefit of third-party The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into investors.
Sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling The Group concludes that it has control and, therefore, will at the dates of the transactions.
consolidate a fund as if it were a subsidiary where the Group acts Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive as a principal.
If the Group concludes that it does not have control income, and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve, over the fund, the Group accounts for its interest in the fund as a except to the extent that the translation difference is allocated to financial asset.
Interests in unconsolidated structured entities When a foreign operation is disposed of such that control is lost, The Group classifies the following investment funds as the cumulative amount in the foreign currency translation reserve unconsolidated structured entities: related to that foreign operation is reclassified to comprehensive income as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
If the Group disposes Segregated mandates and pooled funds managed where the of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign Group does not hold any direct interest.
In this case, the Group operation while retaining control, then the relevant proportion of the considers that its aggregate economic exposure is insignificant, cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interests.
and, in relation to segregated mandates, the third-party investor has the practical ability to remove the Group from acting as fund If the settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to manager, without cause.
As a result, the Group concludes that it a foreign operation is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable acts as an agent for third-party investors.
future, then foreign currency differences arising on the item form Pooled funds managed by the Group where the Group holds part of the net investment in the foreign operation and are recognised a direct interest, for example seed capital investments, and the in other comprehensive income, and accumulated in the foreign Groups aggregate economic exposure in the fund relative to thirdcurrency translation reserve within equity.
party investors is less than 20% i. e. the threshold established by Business combinations the Group for determining agent versus principal classification.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition As a result, the Group concludes that it is an agent for third-party method as at the acquisition date.
The acquisition date is the date investors and, therefore, will account for its beneficial interest in on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
the fund as a financial asset.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition is generally The disclosure of the AuM in respect of consolidated and measured at the acquisition date fair value, as are the identifiable unconsolidated structured entities is provided in note 28. net assets acquired, liabilities incurred including any asset or liability Foreign currency resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement and The Groups financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control Sterling, which is also the Companys functional and presentation of the acquiree.
Items included in the financial statements of each of Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred, except if they the Groups entities are measured using the functional currency, are related to the issue of debt or equity securities.
which is the currency that prevails in the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
82 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 82 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Foreign currency transactions Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will Financial instruments be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequently, The Group has interests in structured entities as a result of the Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective Recognition and initial measurement changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is management of assets on behalf of its clients.
Where the Group functional currency of the Group entities at the spot exchange rates Financial instruments are recognised when the Group becomes party deemed to be a liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 holds a direct interest in a closed-ended fund, private equity fund or at the date of the transactions.
to the contractual provisions of an instrument, initially at fair value in comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified open-ended pooled fund such as a SICAV, the interest is accounted plus transaction costs except for financial assets classified at fair Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies as equity, it will not be remeasured and settlement is accounted for for either as a consolidated structured entity or as a financial asset, value through profit or loss.
Purchases or sales of financial assets are at the balance sheet date are translated into the functional currency within equity.
depending on whether the Group has control over the fund or not.
recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits at the spot exchange rate at that date.
Non-monetary assets and to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial assets are derecognised when If share-based payment awards replacement awards are required Control is determined in accordance with IFRS 10, based on an liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or to be exchanged for awards held by the acquirees employees assessment of the level of power and aggregate economic interest currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of been transferred or when the Group has transferred substantially all acquirees awards and relate to past services, then all or a portion that the Group has over the fund, relative to third-party investors.
risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are derecognised of the amount of the acquirers replacement awards is included Power is normally conveyed to the Group through the existence Foreign currency differences arising on translation are generally when the obligation under the liability has been discharged, cancelled in measuring the consideration transferred in the business of an investment management agreement and or other contractual recognised in comprehensive income.
However, foreign currency or expires.
This determination is based on market-based value arrangements.
Aggregate economic interest is a measure of the differences arising from the translation of the following items are of the replacement awards compared with the market-based value Groups exposure to variable returns in the fund through a Subsequent measurement recognised in other comprehensive income: of the acquirees awards and the extent to which the replacement combination of direct interest, carried interest, expected management The subsequent measurement of financial instruments depends on awards relate to pre-combination service.
fees, fair value gains or losses, and distributions receivable from available-for-sale equity instruments: and their classification in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: the fund.
qualifying cash flow hedges to the extent that the hedge recognition and measurement and IFRS 5 Non-current assets heldGoodwill is effective.
The Group concludes that it acts as a principal when the power it has The cost of a business combination in excess of the fair value of net over the fund is deemed to be exercised for self-benefit, considering identifiable assets or liabilities acquired, including intangible assets Foreign operations Financial assets the level of aggregate economic exposure in the fund and the identified, is recognised as goodwill and stated at cost less any The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: assessed strength of third-party investors kick-out rights.
The Group accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill has an indefinite useful life, and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated financial assets held-for-sale, investment securities, fair value through concludes that it acts as an agent when the power it has over the is not subject to amortisation and is tested annually for impairment into Sterling at the spot exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
profit or loss investments, available-for-sale financial assets and nonfund is deemed to be exercised for the benefit of third-party or when there is an indication of impairment.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into current financial assets held-for-sale.
Sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling Intangible assets The Group may, from time to time, invest in funds where an The Group concludes that it has control and, therefore, will at the dates of the transactions.
The cost of intangible assets, such as management contracts and Ashmore Group subsidiary is the investment manager or an adviser consolidate a fund as if it were a subsidiary where the Group acts Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive brand names, acquired as part of a business combination is their seeding.
Where the holding in such investments is deemed to as a principal.
If the Group concludes that it does not have control income, and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve, fair value as at the date of acquisition.
The fair value at the date of represent a controlling stake and is acquired exclusively with a view over the fund, the Group accounts for its interest in the fund as a except to the extent that the translation difference is allocated to acquisition is calculated using the discounted cash flow methodology to subsequent disposal through sale or dilution, these seed capital financial asset.
and represents the valuation of the profits expected to be earned investments are recognised as non-current financial assets held-forfrom the management contracts and brand name in place at the Interests in unconsolidated structured entities sale in accordance with IFRS 5.
The Group recognises 100% of the When a foreign operation is disposed of such that control is lost, date of acquisition.
The Group classifies the following investment funds as investment in the fund as a held-for-sale asset and the interest the cumulative amount in the foreign currency translation reserve unconsolidated structured entities: held by other parties as a liability held-for-sale.
Where control is related to that foreign operation is reclassified to comprehensive Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less not deemed to exist, and the assets are readily realisable, they are income as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
If the Group disposes any accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible Segregated mandates and pooled funds managed where the recognised as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss in of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign assets are amortised, if appropriate, over their useful lives, which Group does not hold any direct interest.
In this case, the Group accordance with IAS 39.
Where the assets are not readily realisable, operation while retaining control, then the relevant proportion of the have been assessed as being between 31 months and eight years.
considers that its aggregate economic exposure is insignificant, they are recognised as non-current asset investments.
If a seed cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interests.
and, in relation to segregated mandates, the third-party investor capital investment remains under the control of the Group for more Non-controlling interests NCI has the practical ability to remove the Group from acting as fund If the settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to than one year from the original investment date, the underlying fund NCI are measured at their proportionate share of the acquirees manager, without cause.
As a result, the Group concludes that it a foreign operation is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable is consolidated line-by-line.
identifiable net assets at the acquisition date.
Changes to the acts as an agent for third-party investors.
future, then foreign currency differences arising on the item form Groups interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control Pooled funds managed by the Group where the Group holds part of the net investment in the foreign operation and are recognised Investment securities are accounted for as equity transactions.
a direct interest, for example seed capital investments, and the in other comprehensive income, and accumulated in the foreign Investment securities represent listed securities, other than Groups aggregate economic exposure in the fund relative to thirdcurrency translation reserve within equity.
derivatives, held by consolidated funds.
These securities are held at Property, plant and equipment party investors is less than 20% i. e. the threshold established by fair value with gains and losses recognised through the consolidated Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated Business combinations the Group for determining agent versus principal classification.
Cost is determined on the basis Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition As a result, the Group concludes that it is an agent for third-party of the direct and indirect costs that are directly attributable.
Property, method as at the acquisition date.
The acquisition date is the date investors and, therefore, will account for its beneficial interest in Non-current financial assets held-for-sale plant and equipment is depreciated using the straight-line method on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
Non-current financial assets held-for-sale are measured at the lower over the estimated useful lives, assessed to be five years for office of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell except where The consideration transferred for the acquisition is generally The disclosure of the AuM in respect of consolidated and equipment and four years for IT equipment.
The residual values and measurement and remeasurement is outside the scope of IFRS 5. measured at the acquisition date fair value, as are the identifiable useful lives of assets are reviewed at least annually.
unconsolidated structured entities is provided in note 28.
Where investments that have initially been recognised as non-current net assets acquired, liabilities incurred including any asset or liability financial assets held-for-sale, because the Group has been deemed Deferred acquisition costs Foreign currency resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement and as holding a controlling stake, are subsequently disposed of or diluted Costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment The Groups financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control such that the Groups holding is no longer deemed a controlling stake, management contract are deferred if they can be identified separately Sterling, which is also the Companys functional and presentation of the acquiree.
the investment will subsequently be classified as fair value through and measured reliably and it is probable that they will be recovered.
Items included in the financial statements of each of Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred, except if they profit or loss investments in accordance with IAS 39.
Subsequent Deferred acquisition costs represent the contractual right to benefit the Groups entities are measured using the functional currency, are related to the issue of debt or equity securities.
movements will be recognised in accordance with the Groups from providing investment management services and are charged as which is the currency that prevails in the primary economic accounting policy for the newly adopted classification.
the related revenue is recognised.
environment in which the entity operates.
82 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Trade and other receivables Available-for-sale financial assets Trade and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction costs.
The fair value on acquisition is normally the cost.
Available-for-sale financial assets include readily realisable interests Impairment losses with respect to the estimated irrecoverable in seeded funds that are either allocated specifically to this category amount are recognised through the statement of comprehensive or cannot be assigned to any other category.
They are carried income when there is appropriate evidence that trade and other at fair value and changes in fair value are recognised in other receivables are impaired.
However, if a longer-term receivable carries comprehensive income, until the asset is disposed of or impaired, at no interest, the fair value is estimated as the present value of all which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is included in profit for the year as part of future cash payments or receipts discounted using the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
The resulting adjustment is comprehensive income.
Dividend income and impairment losses are recognised as interest expense or interest income.
Subsequent recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
to initial recognition these assets are measured at amortised cost Financial assets designated as fair value through profit less any impairment.
or loss FVTPL Cash and cash equivalents Financial assets designated as FVTPL include certain readily realisable Cash represents cash at bank and in hand and cash equivalents interests in seeded funds, non-current asset investments and comprise short-term deposits and investments in money market derivatives.
The Group designates financial assets as FVTPL when: instruments with an original maturity of three months or less.
the financial assets are managed, evaluated and reported internally on a fair value basis: and Financial liabilities the classification at fair value eliminates or significantly reduces an The Group classifies its financial liabilities into the following accounting mismatch which would otherwise arise.
categories: non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale, financial liabilities designated as FVTPL and financial liabilities at From the date the financial asset is designated as FVTPL all amortised cost.
subsequent changes in fair value, foreign exchange differences, interest and dividends are reflected in the consolidated statement of Non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale comprehensive income and presented in finance income or expense.
Non-current financial liabilities represent interests held by other parties in funds in which the Group recognises 100% of the i FVTPL investments investment in the fund as a held-for-sale financial asset.
These The Group classifies new readily realisable interests in seeded liabilities are carried at fair value with gains or losses recognised funds as FVTPL investments with fair value changes being directly in the statement of comprehensive income within finance income recognised through the consolidated statement of comprehensive or expense.
Fair value is measured based on the proportionate net asset value in the fund.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial liabilities at FVTPL include derivative financial instruments ii Non-current asset investments and third-party interests in consolidated funds.
They are carried at fair Non-current asset investments include closed-end funds which are value with gains or losses recognised in the consolidated statement designated as FVTPL.
They are held at fair value with changes in of comprehensive income within finance income or expense.
fair value being recognised through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Fair value is assessed by taking account of Other financial liabilities the extent to which potential dilution of gains or losses may arise Other financial liabilities including trade and other payables as a result of additional investors subscribing to the fund where are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective the final close of a fund has not occurred.
iii Derivatives Fair value of financial instruments Derivatives include foreign exchange forward contracts and options Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to used by the Group to manage its foreign currency exposures and sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability i. e. the exit price those held in consolidated funds.
Derivatives are initially recognised in an orderly transaction between market participants at the at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into measurement date.
In determining fair value, the Group uses various and subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Transaction costs are valuation approaches and establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
measuring fair value that maximises the use of relevant observable All derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is inputs and minimises the use of unobservable inputs by requiring positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
that the most observable inputs be used when available.
Observable Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the derivatives are taken directly in comprehensive income, except for asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from the effective portion of cash flow hedges, which is recognised in sources independent of the Group.
84 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 84 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Trade and other receivables Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the Groups assumptions Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities about the assumptions other market participants would use in pricing Available-for-sale financial assets Trade and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value plus The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual the asset or liability, developed based on the best information transaction costs.
rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers Available-for-sale financial assets include readily realisable interests available in the circumstances.
Impairment losses with respect to the estimated irrecoverable the financial asset and substantially all the risk and rewards of in seeded funds that are either allocated specifically to this category amount are recognised through the statement of comprehensive ownership of the asset.
The Group derecognises a financial or cannot be assigned to any other category.
They are carried Securities listed on a recognised stock exchange or dealt on any income when there is appropriate evidence that trade and other liability when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled at fair value and changes in fair value are recognised in other other regulated market that operates regularly, recognised and receivables are impaired.
However, if a longer-term receivable carries or they expire.
comprehensive income, until the asset is disposed of or impaired, at open to the public, are valued at the last known available closing bid no interest, the fair value is estimated as the present value of all which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other price.
If a security is traded on several actively traded and organised Impairment of financial assets comprehensive income is included in profit for the year as part of future cash payments or receipts discounted using the Groups financial markets, the valuation is made on the basis of the last known General weighted average cost of capital.
Dividend income and impairment losses are bid price on the main market on which the securities are traded.
recognised as interest expense or interest income.
Subsequent At each reporting date, the carrying amounts of the Groups assets recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
In the case of securities for which trading on an actively traded and are reviewed to assess whether there is any objective evidence of to initial recognition these assets are measured at amortised cost organised financial market is not significant, but which are bought and Financial assets designated as fair value through profit less any impairment.
impairment in the value of financial assets classified as either sold on a secondary market with regulated trading among security or loss FVTPL available-for-sale or as trade and other receivables.
Impairment losses dealers with the effect that the price is set on a market basis, the Cash and cash equivalents Financial assets designated as FVTPL include certain readily realisable are recognised if an event has occurred which will have an adverse valuation may be based on this secondary market.
Cash represents cash at bank and in hand and cash equivalents interests in seeded funds, non-current asset investments and impact on the expected future cash flows of an asset and the comprise short-term deposits and investments in money market derivatives.
The Group designates financial assets as FVTPL when: Where instruments are not listed on any stock exchange or not expected impact can be reliably estimated.
If any such indication instruments with an original maturity of three months or less.
traded on any regulated markets, valuation techniques are used exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment the financial assets are managed, evaluated and reported internally by valuation specialists.
These techniques include the market loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds on a fair value basis: and Financial liabilities approach, the income approach or the cost approach for which its recoverable amount.
the classification at fair value eliminates or significantly reduces an The Group classifies its financial liabilities into the following sufficient and reliable data is available.
The use of the market The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of an assets fair accounting mismatch which would otherwise arise.
categories: non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale, financial approach generally consists of using comparable market transactions value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in use, liabilities designated as FVTPL and financial liabilities at or using techniques based on market observable inputs, while the From the date the financial asset is designated as FVTPL all the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present amortised cost.
use of the income approach generally consists of the net present subsequent changes in fair value, foreign exchange differences, value using the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
For an value of estimated future cash flows, adjusted as deemed appropriate interest and dividends are reflected in the consolidated statement of asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the Non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale for liquidity, credit, market and or other risk factors.
comprehensive income and presented in finance income or expense.
recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to Non-current financial liabilities represent interests held by other Investments in open-ended funds are valued on the basis of the which the asset belongs.
parties in funds in which the Group recognises 100% of the i FVTPL investments last available NAV of the units or shares of such funds.
investment in the fund as a held-for-sale financial asset.
These Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets are measured The Group classifies new readily realisable interests in seeded liabilities are carried at fair value with gains or losses recognised The fair value of the derivatives is their quoted market price at funds as FVTPL investments with fair value changes being directly as the difference between cost and the current fair value.
Where in the statement of comprehensive income within finance income the balance sheet date.
recognised through the consolidated statement of comprehensive there is evidence that the available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, or expense.
the cumulative loss that had been previously recognised in other income.
Fair value is measured based on the proportionate net asset Hedge accounting value in the fund.
comprehensive income is reclassified from the available-for-sale fair Financial liabilities at FVTPL The Group applies cash flow hedge accounting when the transactions value reserve and recognised in the consolidated statement of Financial liabilities at FVTPL include derivative financial instruments meet the specified hedge accounting criteria.
To qualify, the following ii Non-current asset investments comprehensive income.
and third-party interests in consolidated funds.
They are carried at fair conditions must be met: Non-current asset investments include closed-end funds which are Impairment losses in respect of assets other than goodwill are value with gains or losses recognised in the consolidated statement designated as FVTPL.
They are held at fair value with changes in formal documentation of the relationship between the hedging measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the of comprehensive income within finance income or expense.
fair value being recognised through the consolidated statement of instrument s and hedged item s must exist at inception: financial asset and the present value of estimated cash flows comprehensive income.
Fair value is assessed by taking account of Other financial liabilities the hedged cash flows must be highly probable and must present discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Such the extent to which potential dilution of gains or losses may arise Other financial liabilities including trade and other payables an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of as a result of additional investors subscribing to the fund where are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective comprehensive income: other comprehensive income and are recognised against the carrying the final close of a fund has not occurred.
amount of the impaired asset on the consolidated statement of the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured: and financial position.
Interest on the impaired asset continues to be iii Derivatives the hedge must be highly effective, with effectiveness assessed Fair value of financial instruments accrued on the reduced carrying amount based on the original Derivatives include foreign exchange forward contracts and options on an ongoing basis.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to effective interest rate of the asset.
used by the Group to manage its foreign currency exposures and sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability i. e. the exit price For qualifying cash flow hedges, the change in fair value of those held in consolidated funds.
Derivatives are initially recognised Subsequent increases in fair value of previously impaired available-forthe effective hedging instrument is initially recognised in other in an orderly transaction between market participants at the at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into sale financial assets are reported as fair value gains in the  income and is released to comprehensive income measurement date.
Transaction costs are for-sale fair value reserve through other comprehensive income and valuation approaches and establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in in the same period during which the relevant financial asset or recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
not separately identified as an impairment reversal.
liability affects the Groups results.
measuring fair value that maximises the use of relevant observable All derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is inputs and minimises the use of unobservable inputs by requiring For all other assets other than goodwill, if in a subsequent year the positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Where the hedge is highly effective overall, any ineffective portion that the most observable inputs be used when available.
Observable amount of the estimated impairment loss decreases because of an of the hedge is immediately recognised in comprehensive income.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously Where the instrument ceases to be highly effective as a hedge, or derivatives are taken directly in comprehensive income, except for asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from recognised impairment loss is reversed, but is limited to the extent is sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is discontinued.
the effective portion of cash flow hedges, which is recognised in sources independent of the Group.
that the value of the asset may not exceed the original carrying other comprehensive income.
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, had no impairment occurred.
84 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 85 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 85 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Share-based payments Goodwill The Group issues share awards to its employees under share-based Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an compensation plans.
indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable based For equity-settled awards, the fair value of the amounts payable on managements judgements regarding the future prospects of the to employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding business, estimates of future cash flows and discount rates.
When increase in equity over the vesting period after adjusting for the assessing the appropriateness of the carrying value of goodwill at estimated number of shares that are expected to vest.
The fair value year end, the recoverable amount is considered to be the greater of is measured at the grant date using an appropriate valuation model, fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
The pre-tax discount rate taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the applied is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital instruments were granted.
At each balance sheet date prior to after making allowances for any specific risks.
vesting, the cumulative expense representing the extent to which The business of the Group is managed as a single unit, with asset the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate allocations, research and other such operational practices reflecting of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest is calculated.
The the commonality of approach across all fund themes.
Therefore, movement in cumulative expense is recognised in the statement of for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, the Group is comprehensive income with a corresponding entry within equity.
considered to have one cash-generating unit to which all goodwill For cash-settled awards, the fair value of the amounts payable to is allocated and, as a result, no further split of goodwill into smaller employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding liability cash-generating units is possible and the impairment review is on the Groups balance sheet.
The fair value is measured using an conducted for the Group as a whole.
appropriate valuation model, taking into account the estimated An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
number of awards that are expected to vest and the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted.
During the Revenue vesting period, the liability recognised represents the portion of the Revenue comprises management fees, performance fees and other vesting period that has expired at the balance sheet date multiplied revenue.
Revenue is recognised in the statement of comprehensive by the fair value of the awards at that date.
Movements in the liability income as and when the related services are provided.
Revenue is are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Operating leases Specific revenue recognition policies are: Payments payable under operating leases are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over Management fees the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised Management fees net of rebates are accrued over the period for on a straight-line basis over the lease term and are recorded as which the service is provided.
Where management fees are received a reduction in premises costs.
in advance these are recognised over the period of the provision of the asset management service.
Finance income and expense Finance income includes interest receivable on the Groups cash and Performance fees cash equivalents, realised gains on available-for-sale financial assets Performance fees net of rebates relate to the performance of funds and both realised and unrealised gains on held-for-sale assets and managed during the period and are recognised when the quantum investments measured at FVTPL.
of the fee can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the fee Finance expense includes realised losses on available-for-sale financial will crystallise.
This is usually at the end of the performance period assets and both realised and unrealised losses on held-for-sale assets or upon early redemption by a client.
and investments measured at FVTPL.
Other revenue Taxation Other revenue includes transaction, structuring and administration Tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
fees, and reimbursement by funds of costs incurred by the Group.
Tax is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive This revenue is recognised when the related services are provided.
income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised Distribution costs directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Distribution costs are cost of sales payable to third-parties and Current tax are recognised over the period for which the service is provided.
Current tax comprises the expected tax payable or receivable on Employee benefits the taxable income or loss for the year, and any adjustment to the tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years.
It is measured Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance are recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive sheet date in the countries where the Group operates.
Current income when payable in accordance with the scheme particulars.
tax also includes withholding tax arising from dividends.
86 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 86 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax Segmental information Share-based payments Goodwill Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, Key management information, including revenues, margins, The Group issues share awards to its employees under share-based in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of investment performance, distribution costs and AuM flows, Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an compensation plans.
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts which is relevant to the operation of the Group, is reported to and indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable based For equity-settled awards, the fair value of the amounts payable used for taxation purposes.
The following differences are not reviewed by the Board on the basis of the investment management on managements judgements regarding the future prospects of the to employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding provided for: business as a whole.
Hence the Groups management considers business, estimates of future cash flows and discount rates.
When increase in equity over the vesting period after adjusting for the that the Groups services and its operations are not run on a discrete assessing the appropriateness of the carrying value of goodwill at goodwill not deductible for tax purposes: and estimated number of shares that are expected to vest.
The fair value geographic basis and comprise one business segment being year end, the recoverable amount is considered to be the greater of differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent is measured at the grant date using an appropriate valuation model, fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
The pre-tax discount rate provision of investment management services.
that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the applied is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital instruments were granted.
At each balance sheet date prior to Company-only accounting policies after making allowances for any specific risks.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected vesting, the cumulative expense representing the extent to which In addition to the above accounting policies, the following specifically manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets The business of the Group is managed as a single unit, with asset the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate relates to the Company: and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the allocations, research and other such operational practices reflecting of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest is calculated.
the commonality of approach across all fund themes.
Therefore, Investment in subsidiaries movement in cumulative expense is recognised in the statement of for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, the Group is Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is Investments by the Company in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, comprehensive income with a corresponding entry within equity.
considered to have one cash-generating unit to which all goodwill probable that future taxable profits will be available against which where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
For cash-settled awards, the fair value of the amounts payable to is allocated and, as a result, no further split of goodwill into smaller the assets can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding liability cash-generating units is possible and the impairment review is reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer on the Groups balance sheet.
probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be number of awards that are expected to vest and the terms and applied to temporary differences when they reverse, using tax conditions upon which the instruments were granted.
During the Revenue rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
vesting period, the liability recognised represents the portion of the Revenue comprises management fees, performance fees and other vesting period that has expired at the balance sheet date multiplied revenue.
Revenue is recognised in the statement of comprehensive Dividends by the fair value of the awards at that date.
Revenue is Dividends are recognised when shareholders rights to receive are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits payments have been established.
will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Operating leases Equity shares Specific revenue recognition policies are: Payments payable under operating leases are recognised in the The Companys ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each are classified statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over Management fees as equity instruments.
Ordinary shares issued by the Company the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised Management fees net of rebates are accrued over the period for are recorded at the fair value of the consideration received or the on a straight-line basis over the lease term and are recorded as which the service is provided.
Where management fees are received market price at the day of issue.
Direct issue costs, net of tax, a reduction in premises costs.
in advance these are recognised over the period of the provision of are deducted from equity through share premium.
When share capital the asset management service.
is repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, including directly Finance income and expense attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
Finance income includes interest receivable on the Groups cash and Performance fees cash equivalents, realised gains on available-for-sale financial assets Performance fees net of rebates relate to the performance of funds Own shares and both realised and unrealised gains on held-for-sale assets and managed during the period and are recognised when the quantum Own shares are held by the EBT.
The holding of the EBT comprises investments measured at FVTPL.
of the fee can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the fee own shares that have not vested unconditionally to employees of the Finance expense includes realised losses on available-for-sale financial will crystallise.
This is usually at the end of the performance period Group.
In both the Group and Company, own shares are recorded at assets and both realised and unrealised losses on held-for-sale assets or upon early redemption by a client.
cost and are deducted from retained earnings.
Other revenue Treasury shares Taxation Other revenue includes transaction, structuring and administration Treasury shares are recognised in equity and are measured at cost.
Tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised Tax is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive This revenue is recognised when the related services are provided.
in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from the sale income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised and original cost being taken to retained earnings.
Distribution costs directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
86 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 87 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 87 Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Segmental information The location of the Groups non-current assets at year end other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit assets is shown in the table below.
Disclosures relating to revenue are in note 6.
Analysis of non-current assets by geography 2015 2014 m m United Kingdom 12.4 14.3 United States 70.9 70.1 Other 0.6 0.5 6 Revenue Management fees are accrued throughout the year in line with prevailing levels of assets under management and performance fees are recognised when they can be estimated reliably and it is probable that they will crystallise.
The Group is not considered to be reliant on any single source of revenue.
During the year, none of the Groups funds FY2013 14: none provided more than 10% of total revenue in the year respectively when considering management fees and performance fees on a combined basis.
Analysis of revenue by geography 2015 2014 m m United Kingdom earned revenue 247.3 266.2 United States earned revenue 14.4 22.2 Other revenue 6.4 5.7 7 Foreign exchange The foreign exchange rates which had a material impact on the Groups results are the US dollar, the Brazilian real and Indonesian rupiah.
Average rate Average rate Closing rate Closing rate year ended year ended as at 30 June as at 30 June 30 June 30 June 1 2015 2014 2015 2014 US dollar 1.5712 1.7106 1.5822 1.6281 Brazilian real 4.8744 3.7854 4.2257 3.7250 Indonesian rupiah 20,970 20,219 19,713 18,618 Foreign exchange gains and losses are shown below.
2015 2014 m m Net realised and unrealised hedging gains losses 0.4 3.5 Translation gains losses on non-Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities 18.5 30.1 Total foreign exchange gains losses 18.1 26.6 8 Finance income and expense Restated 2015 2014 m m Finance income Interest income 7.0 4.7 Net gains on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 2.5 Net realised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value 3.0 Release of contingent consideration 0.5 Total finance income 7.0 10.7 Finance expense Net realised losses on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 0.2 Net realised losses on disposal of seed capital investments measured at fair value 1.2 Net unrealised losses on seed capital investments measured at fair value 3.7 8.5 Total finance expense 5.1 8.5 Net finance income 1.9 2.2 88 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 88 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Segmental information 9 Personnel expenses The location of the Groups non-current assets at year end other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit Personnel expenses during the year comprised the following: assets is shown in the table below.
2015 2014 m m Analysis of non-current assets by geography Wages and salaries 20.0 19.6 2015 2014 m m Performance-related cash bonuses 17.3 15.0 United Kingdom 12.4 14.3 Share-based payments 24.5 23.2 United States 70.9 70.1 Social security costs 2.3 5.1 Other 0.6 0.5 Pension costs 1.6 1.2 Other costs 1.5 2.0 6 Revenue Total personnel expenses 67.2 66.1 Management fees are accrued throughout the year in line with prevailing levels of assets under management and performance fees are Personnel expenses in respect of the year ended 30 June 2015 include an amount of 0.1 million FY2013 14: 0.6 million that has been recognised when they can be estimated reliably and it is probable that they will crystallise.
The Group is not considered to be reliant on any waived by Directors and employees in earlier periods with an equivalent amount paid to charity in the financial year to 30 June 2015. single source of revenue.
Number of employees Analysis of revenue by geography The number of employees of the Group including Directors during the reporting year, all categorised as investment management personnel, 2015 2014 was as follows: m m Average for United Kingdom earned revenue 247.3 266.2 the year Average for ended the year ended At At United States earned revenue 14.4 22.2 30 June 2015 30 June 2014 30 June 2015 30 June 2014 Other revenue 6.4 5.7 Number Number Number Number Total employees 293 290 285 291 7 Foreign exchange The foreign exchange rates which had a material impact on the Groups results are the US dollar, the Brazilian real and Indonesian rupiah.
Directors remuneration Average rate Average rate Disclosures of Directors remuneration during the year as required by the Companies Act 2006 are included in the Remuneration report on Closing rate Closing rate year ended year ended pages 52 to 65. as at 30 June as at 30 June 30 June 30 June 1 2015 2014 2015 2014 There are retirement benefits accruing to two Directors under a defined contribution scheme FY2013 14: two.
US dollar 1.5712 1.7106 1.5822 1.6281 10 Share-based payments Brazilian real 4.8744 3.7854 4.2257 3.7250 The total share-based payments-related cost recognised by the Group in the statement of comprehensive income is shown below: Indonesian rupiah 20,970 20,219 19,713 18,618 2015 2014 Group m m Foreign exchange gains and losses are shown below.
Omnibus Plan 25.0 19.2 2015 2014 m m Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C AEIM operating agreement 1.6 0.3 Net realised and unrealised hedging gains losses 0.4 3.5 Phantom Bonus Plan 2.1 0.1 Translation gains losses on non-Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities 18.5 30.1 Total related to compensation awards 24.5 19.6 Total foreign exchange gains losses 18.1 26.6 Related to acquisition of AEIM 3.6 Total share-based payments expense 24.5 23.2 8 Finance income and expense Restated The total expense recognised for the year in respect of equity-settled share-based payment transactions was 26.5 million FY2013 14: 2015 2014 23.8 million.
m m Finance income Interest income 7.0 4.7 Net gains on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 2.5 Net realised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value 3.0 Release of contingent consideration 0.5 Total finance income 7.0 10.7 Finance expense Net realised losses on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 0.2 Net realised losses on disposal of seed capital investments measured at fair value 1.2 Net unrealised losses on seed capital investments measured at fair value 3.7 8.5 Total finance expense 5.1 8.5 Net finance income 1.9 2.2 88 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 89 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 89 Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Share-based payments continued The Ashmore First Discretionary Share Option Scheme Option Scheme The Option Scheme was set up in October 2000.
Options issued under the Option Scheme typically have a life of 10 years and vest after five years from date of grant.
The pro rata proportion of the fair value of options at each reporting year end has been accounted for on an equity-settled basis.
No further options will be issued under the Option Scheme.
All outstanding options are fully vested.
Share options outstanding under the Option Scheme were as follows: Weighted Weighted 2015 average 2014 average Number of exercise price Number of exercise price Group and Company options pence options pence At the beginning of the year 503,750 35.11 503,750 35.11 Exercised 328,750 18.72 Forfeited Options outstanding at year end 175,000 65.89 503,750 35.11 Options exercisable 175,000 65.89 503,750 35.11 328,750 share options were exercised during the year FY2013 14: none.
The weighted average share price on the date options were exercised during the year was 317.46 pence.
Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding options At 30 June At 30 June Group and Company 2015 2014 Outstanding options 175,000 503,750 Weighted average exercise price 65.89p 35.11p Weighted average remaining contracted life years 1.00 1.63 Range of exercise prices for share options outstanding at the end of the year Group and Company 2015 2014 Exercise price per share p Exercise periods Number Number 10.00 20.00 9 December 2010 8 December 2015 328,750 20.00 30.00 27 April 2011 26 April 2016 125,000 125,000 170.00 180.00 8 December 2011 7 December 2016 50,000 50,000 175,000 503,750 There were no new share options granted during the year ended 30 June 2015 FY2013 14: none.
The Executive Omnibus Incentive Plan Omnibus Plan The Omnibus Plan was introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and provides for the grant of share awards, market value options, premium cost options, discounted options, linked options, phantoms and or nil-cost options to employees.
The Omnibus Plan will also allow bonuses to be deferred in the form of share awards with or without matching shares.
These elements can be used singly or in combination.
Awards granted under the Omnibus Plan typically vest after five years from date of grant, with the exception of bonus awards which vest after the shorter of five years from date of grant or on the date of termination of employment.
Awards under the Omnibus Plan are accounted for as equity-settled, with the exception of phantoms which are classified as cash-settled.
The share-based payments relating to the Omnibus Plan represent the combined cash and equity-settled payments.
Total expense by year awards were granted Group and Company 2015 2014 m m Year of grant 2009 0.9 2010 2.0 1.1 2011 3.0 2.9 2012 2.9 3.2 2013 4.0 0.3 2014 2.6 11.4 2015 8.4 22.9 19.2 90 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 90 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Share-based payments continued Awards outstanding under the Omnibus Plan were as follows: The Ashmore First Discretionary Share Option Scheme Option Scheme i Equity-settled awards The Option Scheme was set up in October 2000.
Options issued under the Option Scheme typically have a life of 10 years and vest after 2015 five years from date of grant.
The pro rata proportion of the fair value of options at each reporting year end has been accounted for on an Number of 2015 2014 2014 equity-settled basis.
shares Weighted Number of Weighted subject to average shares subject average Share options outstanding under the Option Scheme were as follows: awards share price to awards share price Group and Company Weighted Weighted Restricted share awards 2015 average 2014 average At the beginning of the year 17,996,262 3.50 18,070,806 2.98 Number of exercise price Number of exercise price Granted 5,386,125 3.07 5,316,273 3.83 Group and Company options pence options pence Vested 2,296,630 2.86 4,288,564 3.88 At the beginning of the year 503,750 35.11 503,750 35.11 Forfeited 561,123 3.46 1,102,253 3.52 Exercised 328,750 18.72 Awards outstanding at year end 20,524,634 3.46 17,996,262 3.50 Forfeited Options outstanding at year end 175,000 65.89 503,750 35.11 Bonus share awards Options exercisable 175,000 65.89 503,750 35.11 At the beginning of the year 5,659,814 3.55 5,134,098 3.10 Granted 2,422,401 3.05 1,918,121 3.83 328,750 share options were exercised during the year FY2013 14: none.
Vested 677,641 3.03 1,388,760 3.77 Forfeited 3,645 3.25 Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding options Awards outstanding at year end 7,404,574 3.43 5,659,814 3.55 At 30 June At 30 June Group and Company 2015 2014 Matching share awards Outstanding options 175,000 503,750 At the beginning of the year 5,659,814 3.55 5,134,098 3.10 Weighted average exercise price 65.89p 35.11p Granted 2,421,333 3.05 1,918,121 3.83 Weighted average remaining contracted life years 1.00 1.63 Vested 605,548 2.97 941,429 3.91 Forfeited 71,025 3.58 450,976 3.47 Range of exercise prices for share options outstanding at the end of the year Awards outstanding at year end 7,404,574 3.43 5,659,814 3.55 Group and Company 2015 2014 Exercise price per share p Exercise periods Number Number Total 35,333,782 3.44 29,315,890 3.52 10.00 20.00 9 December 2010 8 December 2015 328,750 ii Cash-settled awards 20.00 30.00 27 April 2011 26 April 2016 125,000 125,000 2015 170.00 180.00 8 December 2011 7 December 2016 50,000 50,000 Number of 2015 2014 2014 shares Weighted Number of Weighted 175,000 503,750 subject to average shares subject average Group and Company awards share price to awards share price There were no new share options granted during the year ended 30 June 2015 FY2013 14: none.
Restricted share awards The Executive Omnibus Incentive Plan Omnibus Plan At the beginning of the year 2,200,290 3.50 2,205,318 3.49 The Omnibus Plan was introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and provides for the grant of share awards, market value Granted 15,161 3.09 70,423 3.83 options, premium cost options, discounted options, linked options, phantoms and or nil-cost options to employees.
The Omnibus Plan will Vested 36,887 3.94 11,491 3.24 also allow bonuses to be deferred in the form of share awards with or without matching shares.
These elements can be used singly or in Forfeited 1,595,716 3.51 63,960 3.25 combination.
Awards granted under the Omnibus Plan typically vest after five years from date of grant, with the exception of bonus awards Awards outstanding at year end 582,848 3.48 2,200,290 3.50 which vest after the shorter of five years from date of grant or on the date of termination of employment.
Bonus share awards The share-based payments relating to the Omnibus Plan represent the combined cash and equity-settled payments.
Where the grant of restricted and matching share awards is linked to the annual bonus process the fair value of the awards is spread over a period including the current financial year and the subsequent five years to their vesting date when the grantee becomes unconditionally entitled to the underlying shares.
The fair value of the remaining awards is spread over the period from the date of grant to the vesting date.
The liability arising from cash-settled awards under the Omnibus Plan at the end of the year and reported within trade and other payables on the consolidated balance sheet is 1.3 million 30 June 2014: 7.1 million of which nil 30 June 2013: nil relates to vested awards.
The Approved Company Share Option Plan CSOP The CSOP was also introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and is an option scheme providing for the grant of market value options to employees with the aggregate value of outstanding options not exceeding 30,000 per employee.
The CSOP qualifies as a UK tax approved company share option plan and approval thereto has been obtained from HMRC.
To date, there have been no awards made under the CSOP.
92 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 92 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Share-based payments continued Other arrangements AEIM operating agreement iii Total awards 2015 Under the terms of AEIMs operating agreement, certain employees are eligible to receive part of their variable compensation in the form of Number of 2015 2014 2014 partnership units.
These awards, which typically vest five years from the date of grant depending on the satisfaction of service conditions, are shares Weighted Number of Weighted accounted for as equity-settled share-based payments.
The fair value of awards granted is based on the equity valuation of the subsidiary at subject to average shares subject average the date of grant.
Upon vesting, the holders are entitled to receive units in the subsidiary.
awards share price to awards share price Group and Company Restricted share awards Share awards outstanding at year end under the operating arrangement were as follows: At the beginning of the year 20,196,552 3.50 20,276,124 3.04 2015 2015 2014 2014 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted Granted 5,401,286 3.07 5,386,696 3.83 shares average shares average Vested 2,333,517 2.88 4,300,055 3.88 subject to share price subject to share price Group awards US dollars awards US dollars Forfeited 2,156,839 3.50 1,166,213 3.51 Awards outstanding at year end 21,107,482 3.46 20,196,552 3.50 At the beginning of the year 67,289 $31.88 54,352 $32.05 Granted 21,678 $41.11 31,187 $31.66 Bonus share awards Vested Forfeited 15,246 $37.60 18,250 $32.00 At the beginning of the year 7,239,586 3.54 6,730,293 3.19 Awards outstanding at year end 73,721 $33.41 67,289 $31.88 Granted 2,422,401 3.05 1,953,332 3.83 Vested 677,641 3.03 1,440,394 3.75 The total expense recognised for the year in respect of the AEIM equity-settled share-based payment transactions was 1.5 million FY2013 14: Forfeited 1,196,787 3.51 3,645 3.25 3.8 million.
Awards outstanding at year end 7,787,559 3.43 7,239,586 3.54 AEIM Phantom Bonus Plan The Phantom Bonus Plan is a cash-settled share-based payment plan set up to provide long-term incentives to certain employees.
The units Matching share awards typically vest after five years from date of grant, contingent upon continued employment.
Units awarded under the plan carry no voting rights.
At the beginning of the year 7,239,586 3.54 6,730,293 3.19 The fair value of units granted under the plan is determined with reference to the equity valuation of the underlying employing entity.
Granted 2,421,333 3.05 1,953,332 3.83 Awards outstanding at year end under the Phantom Bonus Plan were as follows: Vested 605,548 2.97 950,047 3.90 2015 2015 2014 2014 Forfeited 1,267,812 3.51 493,992 3.45 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted Awards outstanding at year end 7,787,559 3.43 7,239,586 3.54 shares average shares average subject to share price subject to share price Total 36,682,600 3.45 34,675,724 3.52 Group awards US dollars awards US dollars The fair value of awards granted under the Omnibus Plan is determined by the average Ashmore Group plc closing share price for the five At the beginning of the year 22,041 $31.85 13,229 $32.02 business days prior to grant.
Granted 10,643 $41.11 12,609 $31.66 Vested Where the grant of restricted and matching share awards is linked to the annual bonus process the fair value of the awards is spread over a period including the current financial year and the subsequent five years to their vesting date when the grantee becomes unconditionally Lapsed 8,166 $41.11 3,797 $31.93 entitled to the underlying shares.
Awards outstanding at year end 24,518 $41.11 22,041 $31.85 The liability arising from cash-settled awards under the Omnibus Plan at the end of the year and reported within trade and other payables As at 30 June 2015, the related liability reported within trade and other payables on the consolidated balance sheet is 0.3 million of which nil on the consolidated balance sheet is 1.3 million 30 June 2014: 7.1 million of which nil 30 June 2013: nil relates to vested awards.
relates to vested awards FY2013 14: 0.2 million of which nil relates to vested awards.
The Approved Company Share Option Plan CSOP Prior period acquisition of AEIM The CSOP was also introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and is an option scheme providing for the grant of market value At the time of the acquisition of AEIM in May 2011, employees and management held unvested shares representing 17.9% of its partnership options to employees with the aggregate value of outstanding options not exceeding 30,000 per employee.
The CSOP qualifies as a UK tax shares.
These awards, which vest after five years depending on the satisfaction of service conditions, are accounted for as equity-settled shareapproved company share option plan and approval thereto has been obtained from HMRC.
To date, there have been no awards made under based payments in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payment, which results in an annual charge to the statement of comprehensive the CSOP.
income during the period of vesting.
Upon vesting, the holders are entitled to receive shares in AEIM which may be exchanged for shares in Ashmore Group plc or cash at the discretion of the Group.
The grant date fair value was based on the intrinsic value proportionate with the value implied from the purchase consideration paid by the Group to acquire AEIM.
During the year, no awards were granted FY2013 14: none, none vested FY2013 14: none vested and 73,600 awards were forfeited FY2013 14: 11,500 awards were forfeited.
232,300 awards 30 June 2014: 305,900 awards are outstanding as at the year end.
92 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 93 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 93 Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Other expenses Other expenses consist of the following: Restated 2015 2014 m m Travel 4.1 4.9 Professional fees 3.3 4.3 Information technology and communications 5.9 5.6 Deferred acquisition costs 0.1 Amortisation of intangible assets note 15 3.6 3.8 Impairment of intangible assets note 15 0.4 Operating leases 3.3 3.2 Premises-related costs 0.9 1.4 Insurance 1.1 0.9 Auditors remuneration see below 1.0 0.9 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 16 1.3 1.1 Consolidated funds note 20 2.7 3.5 Other expenses 4.7 4.6 32.3 34.3 Auditors remuneration 2015 2014 m m Fees for statutory audit services: Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Groups accounts 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3 Fees for non-audit services: Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for tax services 0.3 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services 0.2 0.2 1.0 0.9 94 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 94 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Other expenses 12 Taxation Other expenses consist of the following: Analysis of tax charge for the year: Restated 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Current tax Travel 4.1 4.9 UK corporation tax on profits for the year 37.6 30.7 Professional fees 3.3 4.3 Overseas corporation tax charge 4.9 4.7 Information technology and communications 5.9 5.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.2 0.3 Deferred acquisition costs 0.1 41.3 35.7 Amortisation of intangible assets note 15 3.6 3.8 Deferred tax Impairment of intangible assets note 15 0.4 Origination and reversal of temporary differences see note 18 0.1 Operating leases 3.3 3.2 Adjustments in respect of prior year 0.2 Premises-related costs 0.9 1.4 Effect of changes in corporation tax rates 1.5 Insurance 1.1 0.9 Tax expense for the year 41.3 36.9 Auditors remuneration see below 1.0 0.9 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 16 1.3 1.1 Factors affecting tax charge for the year Restated Consolidated funds note 20 2.7 3.5 2015 2014 Other expenses 4.7 4.6 m m 32.3 34.3 Profit before tax 181.3 171.6 Auditors remuneration Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the blended UK tax rate of 20.75% FY2013 14: 22.5% 37.6 38.6 2015 2014 m m Fees for statutory audit services: Effects of: Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Groups accounts 0.2 0.2 Non-deductible expenses 8.0 8.4 Deduction in respect of vested shares exercised options Part 12, Corporation Tax Act 2009 2.5 3.9 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3 Deferred tax arising from origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.1 Different rate of taxes on overseas profits 0.1 Fees for non-audit services: Non-taxable income 2.0 4.9 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for tax services 0.3 0.2 Tax relief on amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangibles 1.0 1.5 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services 0.2 0.2 Effect of deferred tax balance from changes in the UK corporation tax rate 1.5 1.0 0.9 Other items 2.4 1.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.2 0.1 Tax expense for the year 41.3 36.9 Non-deductible expenses include the tax impact of non-deductible IFRS 2 accounting charges in respect of share-based payments of 5.0 million FY 2013 14: 5.2 million.
Non-taxable income relates mainly to the NCI share of net profits of the Groups US subsidiaries.
A reduction to the main rate of UK corporation tax from 21% to 20% was enacted in the Finance Act 2013 and became effective from 1 April 2015.
The effect of this rate reduction to 20% has been reflected in the figures set out above.
94 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 95 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit after tax for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent of 136.5 million FY2013 14: 132.1 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding own shares.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated based on basic earnings per share adjusted for all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
There is no difference between the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent used in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations.
Reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share is shown below.
2015 Number of 2014 ordinary Number of shares ordinary shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share 674,424,923 677,970,089 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares share options awards 31,986,209 31,034,197 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share 706,411,132 709,004,286 14 Dividends Dividends paid in the year 2015 2014 Company m m Final dividend for FY2013 14 12.00p FY2012 13: 11.75p 82.7 81.9 Interim dividend for FY2014 15 4.55p FY2013 14: 4.45p 31.3 30.7 114.0 112.6 In addition, the Group paid 6.1 million FY2013 14: 6.6 million of dividends to non-controlling interests.
Dividends declared proposed in respect of the year 2015 2014 Company pence pence Interim dividend declared per share 4.55 4.45 Final dividend proposed per share 12.10 12.00 16.65 16.45 On 7 September 2015 the Board proposed a final dividend of 12.10 pence per share for the year ended 30 June 2015.
This has not been recognised as a liability of the Group at the year end as it has not yet been approved by shareholders.
Based on the number of shares in issue at the year end which qualify to receive a dividend, the total amount payable would be 83.3 million.
96 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 96 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Earnings per share 15 Goodwill and intangible assets Fund Other Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit after tax for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent of management intangible 136.5 million FY2013 14: 132.1 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding own shares.
Goodwill relationships assets Total Group m m m m Diluted earnings per share is calculated based on basic earnings per share adjusted for all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
There is no difference between the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent used in the basic and diluted earnings per share Cost at original exchange rate calculations.
At 30 June 2013, 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2015 57.5 39.5 2.6 99.6 Reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share is shown below.
Accumulated amortisation and impairment 2015 Number of 2014 At 30 June 2013 19.7 2.5 22.2 ordinary Number of Amortisation charge for the year 3.5 0.1 3.6 shares ordinary shares At 30 June 2014 23.2 2.6 25.8 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share 674,424,923 677,970,089 Amortisation charge for the year 3.6 3.6 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares share options awards 31,986,209 31,034,197 Impairment charge for the year 0.4 0.4 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share 706,411,132 709,004,286 At 30 June 2015 27.2 2.6 29.8 14 Dividends Dividends paid in the year Net book value 2015 2014 At 30 June 2013 61.7 22.3 0.3 84.3 Company m m Accumulated amortisation for the year 3.5 0.3 3.8 Final dividend for FY2013 14 12.00p FY2012 13: 11.75p 82.7 81.9 Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves 6.0 2.3 8.3 Interim dividend for FY2014 15 4.55p FY2013 14: 4.45p 31.3 30.7 At 30 June 2014 55.7 16.5 72.2 114.0 112.6 Accumulated amortisation and impairment for the year 4.0 4.0 In addition, the Group paid 6.1 million FY2013 14: 6.6 million of dividends to non-controlling interests.
Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves 4.3 1.6 5.9 At 30 June 2015 60.0 14.1 74.1 Dividends declared proposed in respect of the year FX revaluation through reserves is a result of the retranslation of US dollar-denominated intangibles and goodwill.
2015 2014 Company pence pence Goodwill Company m Interim dividend declared per share 4.55 4.45 Cost Final dividend proposed per share 12.10 12.00 At the beginning and end of the year 4.1 16.65 16.45 Net carrying amount at 30 June 2014 and 2015 4.1 On 7 September 2015 the Board proposed a final dividend of 12.10 pence per share for the year ended 30 June 2015.
Based on the number of shares in issue at Goodwill the year end which qualify to receive a dividend, the total amount payable would be 83.3 million.
The Groups goodwill balance relates principally to the acquisition of AEIM in May 2011.
The Companys goodwill balance relates to the acquisition of the business from ANZ in 1999.
The annual impairment review of goodwill was undertaken for the year ending 30 June 2015.
The Group consists of a single cash generating unit for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of goodwill.
In performing the impairment review, management prepares a calculation of the recoverable amount of goodwill and compares this to the carrying value.
The recoverable amount was based on a fair value less costs to sell calculation using the Companys year end share price.
Based on managements assessment as at 30 June 2015, the recoverable amount was in excess of the carrying value of goodwill and no impairment was implied.
No impairment losses have been recognised in the current or preceding years.
Fund management relationships Intangible assets comprise fund management relationships related to profit expected to be earned from clients of AEIM.
An annual impairment review of the fund management relationships was undertaken for the year ending 30 June 2015.
The recoverable amount was derived from the cumulative pre-tax net earnings anticipated to be generated over the remaining useful economic life, discounted to present value using a rate of 13.0% per annum.
Cumulative net earnings associated with the fund management relationships intangible asset were derived from the annual operating profit contribution that would arise as a result of the remaining fund management relationships, adjusted for investment performance and investor attrition.
The fund management relationships intangible asset was determined to be impaired as the recoverable amount was lower than the carrying value as at 30 June 2015.
Accordingly, an impairment charge amounting to 0.4 million was recognised during the year and included within other expenses in the Groups consolidated statement of comprehensive income FY2013 14: no impairment was recognised.
The remaining amortisation period for fund management relationships is four years 30 June 2014: five years.
96 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 97 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 97 Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Property, plant and equipment 2015 2014 Fixtures, Fixtures, fittings and fittings and equipment equipment Group m m Cost At the beginning of the year 5.8 11.1 Additions 0.7 0.4 Foreign exchange revaluation 0.1 0.4 Disposals 5.3 At the end of the year 6.6 5.8 Accumulated depreciation At the beginning of the year 2.8 7.4 Depreciation charge for the year 1.3 1.1 Foreign exchange revaluation 0.4 Disposals 5.3 At the end of the year 4.1 2.8 Net book value at 30 June 2.5 3.0 2015 2014 Fixtures, Fixtures, fittings and fittings and equipment equipment Company m m Cost At the beginning of the year 2.7 7.5 Additions 0.3 0.4 Disposals 5.2 At the end of the year 3.0 2.7 Accumulated depreciation At the beginning of the year 1.2 6.1 Depreciation charge for year 0.7 0.3 Disposals 5.2 At the end of the year 1.9 1.2 Net book value at 30 June 1.1 1.5 98 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 98 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Property, plant and equipment 17 Trade and other receivables 2015 2014 Group Company Fixtures, Fixtures, Restated fittings and fittings and 2015 2014 2015 2014 equipment equipment m m m m Group m m Current Cost Trade debtors 60.8 60.7 2.5 2.0 At the beginning of the year 5.8 11.1 Prepayments 2.3 2.4 1.4 1.9 Additions 0.7 0.4 Loans due from subsidiaries 294.1 249.6 Foreign exchange revaluation 0.1 0.4 Amounts due from subsidiaries 151.0 2.8 Disposals 5.3 Other receivables 0.9 6.6 2.8 0.6 At the end of the year 6.6 5.8 Total trade and other receivables 64.0 69.7 451.8 256.9 Accumulated depreciation Group trade debtors include all billed and unbilled management fees due to the Group at 30 June 2015 in respect of investment management services provided up to that date.
Included in amounts due from subsidiaries for the Company are intercompany dividends receivable and At the beginning of the year 2.8 7.4 intercompany trade receivables.
Depreciation charge for the year 1.3 1.1 Foreign exchange revaluation 0.4 18 Deferred taxation Disposals 5.3 Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and Company at year end are attributable to the following: At the end of the year 4.1 2.8 2015 2014 Net book value at 30 June 2.5 3.0 Other Other temporary Share-based temporary Share-based differences payments Total differences payments Total 2015 2014 Group m m m m m m Fixtures, Fixtures, Deferred tax assets 9.6 10.7 20.3 9.4 11.9 21.3 fittings and fittings and equipment equipment Deferred tax liabilities 3.5 3.5 4.5 4.5 Company m m 6.1 10.7 16.8 4.9 11.9 16.8 Cost At the beginning of the year 2.7 7.5 2015 2014 Additions 0.3 0.4 Other Other Disposals 5.2 temporary Share-based temporary Share-based differences payments Total differences payments Total At the end of the year 3.0 2.7 Company m m m m m m Deferred tax assets 0.3 8.7 9.0 0.4 11.9 12.3 Accumulated depreciation At the beginning of the year 1.2 6.1 Depreciation charge for year 0.7 0.3 Disposals 5.2 At the end of the year 1.9 1.2 Net book value at 30 June 1.1 1.5 98 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 99 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 99 Notes to the financial statements continued 18 Deferred taxation continued Movement of deferred tax balances The movement in the deferred tax balances between the balance sheet dates has been reflected in equity or the statement of comprehensive income as follows: Other temporary Share-based differences payments Total m m m Group At 30 June 2013 4.7 13.3 18.0 Credited charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 0.2 1.4 1.2 At 30 June 2014 4.9 11.9 16.8 Credited charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 1.2 1.2 At 30 June 2015 6.1 10.7 16.8 Other temporary Share-based differences payments Total Company m m m At 30 June 2013 0.4 13.3 13.7 Charged to the statement of comprehensive income 0.1 1.4 1.5 At 30 June 2014 0.3 11.9 12.2 Charged to the statement of comprehensive income 3.2 3.2 At 30 June 2015 0.3 8.7 9.0 19 Fair value of financial instruments The Group has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values.
This framework includes a valuation team that has overall responsibility for all significant fair value measurements.
It regularly reviews significant inputs and valuation adjustments.
If third-party information is used to measure fair value, then the team assesses and documents the evidence obtained from the third parties to support such valuations.
There are no material differences between the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values at the balance sheet date.
Fair value hierarchy The Group measures fair values using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of inputs used in making the measurements.
Level 1: Valuation is based upon a quoted market price in an active market for an identical instrument.
This fair value measure relates to the valuation of quoted and exchange traded equity and debt securities.
Level 2: Valuation techniques are based upon observable inputs, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
This fair value measure relates to the valuation of quoted equity securities in inactive markets or in interests in unlisted funds whose net asset values are referenced to the fair values of the listed or exchange traded securities held by those funds.
Level 3: Valuation techniques use significant unobservable inputs.
For financial instruments that are recognised at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
100 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 100 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 18 Deferred taxation continued The fair value hierarchy of financial instruments which are carried at fair value at year end is summarised below: Movement of deferred tax balances Restated 2015 The movement in the deferred tax balances between the balance sheet dates has been reflected in equity or the statement of comprehensive 2014 income as follows: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m m m m m Other Financial assets temporary Share-based differences payments Total Investment securities 36.8 46.7 47.5 131.0 123.0 50.2 173.2 m m m Group Non-current financial assets held-for-sale 31.7 31.7 39.1 39.1 At 30 June 2013 4.7 13.3 18.0 Available-for-sale financial assets 0.4 10.2 10.6 0.8 28.6 29.4 Credited charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 0.2 1.4 1.2 Fair value through profit or loss investments 61.8 61.8 8.4 8.4 At 30 June 2014 4.9 11.9 16.8 Non-current asset investments 8.9 8.9 11.7 11.7 Credited charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 1.2 1.2 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.3 2.5 2.5 At 30 June 2015 6.1 10.7 16.8 37.2 159.6 47.5 244.3 123.8 140.5 264.3 Financial liabilities Other Third-party interests in consolidated funds 15.0 8.7 17.8 41.5 49.5 20.2 69.7 temporary Share-based Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 differences payments Total Company m m m Non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale 11.0 11.0 2.7 2.7 At 30 June 2013 0.4 13.3 13.7 15.0 20.0 17.8 52.8 49.5 23.0 72.5 Charged to the statement of comprehensive income 0.1 1.4 1.5 There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy during the year FY2013 14: none.
At 30 June 2014 0.3 11.9 12.2 Changes in Level 3 financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value on a recurring basis Charged to the statement of comprehensive income 3.2 3.2 Third-party At 30 June 2015 0.3 8.7 9.0 interests in Investment consolidated securities funds 19 Fair value of financial instruments m m The Group has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values.
This framework includes a valuation team that At 1 July 2014 has overall responsibility for all significant fair value measurements.
If third-party information is used to measure fair value, then the team assesses and documents the evidence obtained from the third parties to support such Additions 47.6 17.8 valuations.
There are no material differences between the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values at the balance Losses recognised in consolidated comprehensive income within finance income 0.1 sheet date.
At 30 June 2015 47.5 17.8 Fair value hierarchy Valuation of Level 3 financial liabilities recognised at fair value on a recurring basis The Group measures fair values using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of inputs used in making the The measurement of investment securities and third-party interests in consolidated funds classified within Level 3 relates to investments made measurements.
during the year in closed-end private equity funds that are neither listed on any stock exchange nor traded on any regulated markets.
The Group Level 1: Valuation is based upon a quoted market price in an active market for an identical instrument.
This fair value measure relates considered it is more appropriate to classify these investments within Level 3 as the valuation is based on valuation techniques as reflected to the valuation of quoted and exchange traded equity and debt securities.
within the net asset values NAVs of the funds as provided by the administrator.
Financial instruments not measured at fair value This fair value measure relates to the valuation of quoted equity securities in inactive markets or in interests in unlisted funds whose Financial assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value include cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, and trade and net asset values are referenced to the fair values of the listed or exchange traded securities held by those funds.
The carrying value of financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value is considered a reasonable approximation Level 3: Valuation techniques use significant unobservable inputs.
of fair value as at 30 June 2015 and 2014.
100 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 101 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 101 Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Seed capital investments The Group considers itself a sponsor of an investment fund when it facilitates the establishment of the fund in which the Group is the investment manager.
The Group ordinarily provides seed capital in order to provide initial scale and facilitate marketing of the funds to third-party investors.
The fund is then financed through the issue of units to investors.
Aggregate interests held by the Group include seed capital, management fees and performance fees.
The Group generates management and performance fee income from managing the assets on behalf of third-party investors.
The movements of seed capital investments and related items during the year are as follows: Net Investment non-current Availablesecurities Other Third-party financial for-sale relating to relating to interests in Non-current assets heldfinancial FVTPL consolidated consolidated consolidated asset for-sale assets investments funds funds funds investments Total Group m m m m m m m m Carrying amount at 30 June 2013 restated 78.0 36.4 107.5 7.4 40.8 9.1 182.8 Net transfers: Held-for-sale to consolidated funds 40.6 48.1 7.5 Held-for-sale to FVTPL investments 12.0 12.0 Available-for-sale to held-for-sale 2.7 2.7 Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 8.3 4.3 3.6 17.6 5.8 21.4 2.6 5.0 Carrying amount at 30 June 2014 restated 36.4 29.4 8.4 173.2 1.6 69.7 11.7 187.8 Net transfers: Held-for-sale to consolidated funds 22.8 30.7 7.9 Held-for-sale to FVTPL investments 13.3 13.3 Consolidated funds to FVTPL investments 42.6 116.9 74.3 Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 20.4 18.8 2.5 44.0 17.1 38.2 2.8 19.2 Carrying amount at 30 June 2015 20.7 10.6 61.8 131.0 15.5 41.5 8.9 207.0 Relates to cash and other assets in consolidated funds that are not investment securities.
102 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 102 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Seed capital investments a Non-current assets and non-current liabilities held-for-sale The Group considers itself a sponsor of an investment fund when it facilitates the establishment of the fund in which the Group is the Where Group companies invest seed capital into funds operated and controlled by the Group and the Group is actively seeking to reduce its investment manager.
The Group ordinarily provides seed capital in order to provide initial scale and facilitate marketing of the funds to investment and it is considered highly probable that it will relinquish control within a year, the interests in the funds are treated as held-for-sale third-party investors.
Aggregate interests held by the Group include seed and are recognised as financial assets and liabilities held-for-sale.
During the year, eight funds FY2013 14: nine were seeded in this manner, capital, management fees and performance fees.
The Group generates management and performance fee income from managing the met the above criteria, and consequently the assets and liabilities of these funds were initially classified as held-for-sale.
assets on behalf of third-party investors.
The non-current assets and liabilities held-for-sale at 30 June 2015 were as follows: The movements of seed capital investments and related items during the year are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Net Investment non-current Availablesecurities Other Third-party Non-current financial assets held-for-sale 31.7 39.1 financial for-sale relating to relating to interests in Non-current Non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale 11.0 2.7 assets heldfinancial FVTPL consolidated consolidated consolidated asset for-sale assets investments funds funds funds investments Total Seed capital investments classified as held-for-sale 20.7 36.4 Group m m m m m m m m Carrying amount at 30 June 2013 restated 78.0 36.4 107.5 7.4 40.8 9.1 182.8 Investments cease to be classified as held-for-sale when they are no longer controlled by the Group.
A loss of control may happen either through sale of the investment and or dilution of the Groups holding.
When investments cease to be classified as held-for-sale they are Net transfers: classified as financial assets designated as FVTPL.
Two such investments were transferred to the FVTPL category during the year FY2013 14: Held-for-sale to consolidated funds 40.6 48.1 7.5 two funds were transferred to the FVTPL category after the Group reduced its interests following investment inflows from third parties.
Held-for-sale to FVTPL investments 12.0 12.0 There was no impact on net assets or comprehensive income as a result of the reclassification.
Available-for-sale to held-for-sale 2.7 2.7 If the fund remains under the control of the Group for more than one year from the original investment date it will cease to be classified Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 8.3 4.3 3.6 17.6 5.8 21.4 2.6 5.0 as held-for-sale, and will be consolidated line-by-line after it is assessed that the Group controls the investment fund in accordance with Carrying amount at 30 June 2014 restated 36.4 29.4 8.4 173.2 1.6 69.7 11.7 187.8 the requirements of IFRS 10.
During the year, six such funds FY2013 14: four with an aggregate carrying amount of 22.8 million Net transfers: FY2013 14: 40.6 million were transferred from the held-for-sale to consolidated funds category.
There was no impact on net assets or comprehensive income as a result of the transfer.
Held-for-sale to consolidated funds 22.8 30.7 7.9 Held-for-sale to FVTPL investments 13.3 13.3 Included within finance income are net gains of 2.1 million FY2013 14: net losses of 10.7 million in relation to held-for-sale investments.
Consolidated funds to FVTPL investments 42.6 116.9 74.3 As the Group considers itself to have one segment refer to note 4, no additional segmental disclosure of held-for-sale assets or liabilities Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 20.4 18.8 2.5 44.0 17.1 38.2 2.8 19.2 is applicable.
Carrying amount at 30 June 2015 20.7 10.6 61.8 131.0 15.5 41.5 8.9 207.0 b Available-for-sale financial assets Relates to cash and other assets in consolidated funds that are not investment securities.
Available-for-sale financial assets at 30 June 2015 comprise equities held as follows: Restated 2015 2014 m m Equities listed on stock exchange 0.4 0.8 Equity funds 7.9 26.1 Debt funds 2.3 2.5 Seed capital classified as available-for-sale 10.6 29.4 c Fair value through profit or loss investments Fair value through profit or loss investments at 30 June 2015 comprise equities held in equity funds.
Restated 2015 2014 m m Seed capital classified as fair value through profit or loss investments 61.8 8.4 Included within finance income are losses of 2.7 million FY2013 14: net gains of 4.4 million on the Groups fair value through profit or loss investments.
102 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 103 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 103 Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Seed capital investments continued d Consolidated funds The Group has consolidated 12 investment funds as at 30 June 2015 30 June 2014: six investment funds, over which the Group is deemed to have control see note 26.
Consolidated funds represent seed capital investments where the Group has held its position for a period greater than one year and its interest represents a controlling stake in the fund in accordance with IFRS 10.
Consolidated fund assets and liabilities are presented line by line after intercompany eliminations.
The table below sets out an analysis of the carrying amounts of interests held by the Group in consolidated investment funds.
Restated 2015 2014 m m Investment securities 131.0 173.2 Cash and cash equivalents 15.7 7.9 Other 0.2 9.5 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 41.5 69.7 Consolidated seed capital investments 105.0 101.9 Investment securities include listed and unlisted equities and debt securities.
Other includes trade receivables, trade payables, derivative financial instruments and accruals.
The maximum exposure to loss is the carrying amount of the assets held.
The Group has not provided financial support or otherwise agreed to be responsible for supporting any consolidated fund financially.
Included within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are net losses of 0.2 million FY2013 14: net gains of 9.1 million relating to the Groups share of the results of the individual statements of comprehensive income for each of the consolidated funds, as follows: Restated 2015 2014 m m Finance income 5.3 3.8 Gains losses on investment securities 3.6 14.9 Change in third-party interests in consolidated funds 0.8 6.1 Other expenses 2.7 3.5 Net gains losses on consolidated funds 0.2 9.1 As of 30 June 2015, the Groups consolidated funds were domiciled in Brazil, Indonesia, Luxembourg and the United States.
e Non-current asset investments Non-current asset investments relate to the Groups holding in closed-end funds and are designated as FVTPL.
Fair value is assessed by taking account of the extent to which potential dilution of gains or losses may arise as a result of additional investors subscribing to the fund where the final close of a fund has not occurred.
2015 2014 m m Non-current asset investments 8.9 11.7 Included within finance income are net losses of 2.9 million FY2013 14: net gains of 3.2 million on the Groups non-current asset investments.
104 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 104 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Seed capital investments continued 21 Financial instrument risk management d Consolidated funds Group The Group has consolidated 12 investment funds as at 30 June 2015 30 June 2014: six investment funds, over which the Group is deemed The Group is subject to strategic, business, investment, operational and treasury risks throughout its business as discussed in the Risk to have control see note 26.
Consolidated funds represent seed capital investments where the Group has held its position for a period greater management report.
This note discusses the Groups exposure to and management of the following principal risks which arise from the than one year and its interest represents a controlling stake in the fund in accordance with IFRS 10.
Consolidated fund assets and liabilities are financial instruments it uses: credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and price risk.
Where the Group holds units presented line by line after intercompany eliminations.
The table below sets out an analysis of the carrying amounts of interests held by the in investment funds, classified either as held-for-sale, available-for-sale, FVTPL or non-current asset investment financial assets, the related Group in consolidated investment funds.
financial instrument risk disclosures in the note below categorise exposures based on the Groups direct interest in those funds without looking through to the nature of underlying securities.
Restated 2015 2014 Risk management is the ultimate responsibility of the Board, as noted in the Risk management report on pages 32 to 35. m m Investment securities 131.0 173.2 Capital management Cash and cash equivalents 15.7 7.9 It is the Groups policy that all entities within the Group have sufficient capital to meet regulatory and working capital requirements and it conducts regular reviews of its capital requirements relative to its capital resources.
Other 0.2 9.5 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 41.5 69.7 As the Group is regulated by the United Kingdoms FCA, it is required to maintain appropriate capital and perform regular calculations of capital requirements.
This includes development of an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, based upon the FCAs Consolidated seed capital investments 105.0 101.9 methodologies under the Capital Requirements Directive.
The Groups Pillar III disclosures can be found on the Groups website at Investment securities include listed and unlisted equities and debt securities.
Other includes trade receivables, trade payables, derivative www.
com, covering the year to 30 June 2015.
These disclosures indicate that the Group had excess capital of 485.4 million financial instruments and accruals.
as at 30 June 2015 30 June 2014: excess capital of 465.7 million over the level of capital required under a Pillar II assessment.
The objective of the assessment is to check that the Group has adequate capital to manage identified risks and the process includes The maximum exposure to loss is the carrying amount of the assets held.
The Group has not provided financial support or otherwise agreed conducting stress tests to identify capital and liquidity requirements under different future scenarios including a potential downturn.
to be responsible for supporting any consolidated fund financially.
All regulated entities within the Group have complied with regulatory requirements and filings that apply in the jurisdictions they operate.
Included within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are net losses of 0.2 million FY2013 14: net gains of 9.1 million relating to the Groups share of the results of the individual statements of comprehensive income for each of the consolidated funds, as follows: Credit risk Restated The Group has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where the risk is that a counterparty will be unable to pay in full amounts 2015 2014 when due.
m m Exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis by senior management and the Groups Risk management and control function.
Finance income 5.3 3.8 The Group has a counterparty and cash management policy in place which, in addition to other controls, restricts exposure to any single Gains losses on investment securities 3.6 14.9 counterparty by setting exposure limits and requiring approval and diversification of counterparty banks and other financial institutions.
Change in third-party interests in consolidated funds 0.8 6.1 The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets.
The table below lists financial Other expenses 2.7 3.5 assets subject to credit risk.
Net gains losses on consolidated funds 0.2 9.1 Restated 2015 2014 As of 30 June 2015, the Groups consolidated funds were domiciled in Brazil, Indonesia, Luxembourg and the United States.
Notes m m Investment securities 19 131.0 173.2 e Non-current asset investments Non-current asset investments relate to the Groups holding in closed-end funds and are designated as FVTPL.
Fair value is assessed by Non-current financial assets held-for-sale 19 31.7 39.1 taking account of the extent to which potential dilution of gains or losses may arise as a result of additional investors subscribing to the Available-for-sale financial assets 19 10.6 29.4 fund where the final close of a fund has not occurred.
Fair value through profit or loss investments 19 61.8 8.4 2015 2014 Derivative financial instruments 19 0.3 2.5 m m Trade and other receivables 17 64.0 69.7 Non-current asset investments 8.9 11.7 Cash and cash equivalents 380.8 372.2 Total 680.2 694.5 Included within finance income are net losses of 2.9 million FY2013 14: net gains of 3.2 million on the Groups non-current asset investments.
Investment securities, derivative financial instruments, non-current financial assets held-for-sale, available-for-sale financial assets and FVTPL investments expose the Group to credit risk from various counterparties, which is monitored and reviewed by the Group.
The Groups cash and cash equivalents, comprised of short-term deposits with banks and liquidity funds, are predominantly held with counterparties with credit ratings ranging from AAto AAA as at 30 June 2015 30 June 2014: A to AAAm.
All trade and other receivables are considered to be fully recoverable and none were overdue at year end 30 June 2014: none.
They include fee debtors that arise principally within the Groups investment management business.
They are monitored regularly and, historically, default levels have been insignificant, and, unless a client has withdrawn funds, there is an ongoing relationship between the Group and the client.
There is no significant concentration of credit risk in respect of fees owing from clients.
104 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 105 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 105 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instrument risk management continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or other financial assets.
In order to manage liquidity risk there is a Group Liquidity Policy to ensure that there is sufficient access to funds to cover all forecast committed requirements for the next 12 months.
The maturity profile of the Groups contractual undiscounted financial liabilities is as follows: At 30 June 2015 More than Within 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 11.0 11.0 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 41.5 41.5 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.3 Current trade and other payables 54.1 54.1 106.9 106.9 At 30 June 2014 More than Within 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 2.7 2.7 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 13.5 13.5 Current trade and other payables 69.4 69.4 85.6 85.6 Details on leases and other commitments are provided in note 30.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The principal interest rate risk is the risk that the Group will sustain a reduction in interest income through adverse movements in interest rates.
This relates to bank deposits held in the ordinary course of business.
The Group has a cash management policy which monitors cash levels and returns within set parameters on a continuing basis.
Bank and similar deposits held at year end are shown on the consolidated balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents.
The effective interest earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits 2015 2014 % % Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 1.17 0.70 Deposits with banks and liquidity funds are repriced at intervals of less than one year.
At 30 June 2015, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, profit before tax for the year would have been 0.7 million higher lower FY2013 14: 1.9 million higher lower, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on cash balances.
An assumption that the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates was used in the model to calculate the effect on profit before tax.
In addition, the Group is indirectly exposed to interest rate risk where the Group holds seed capital investments in funds which invest in debt securities.
106 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 106 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instrument risk management continued Group Liquidity risk Foreign exchange risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign delivering cash or other financial assets.
In order to manage liquidity risk there is a Group Liquidity Policy to ensure that there is sufficient access to funds to cover all forecast committed The Groups revenue is almost entirely denominated in US dollars, whilst the majority of the Groups costs are denominated in Sterling.
requirements for the next 12 months.
Consequently, the Group has an exposure to movements in the GBP:USD exchange rate.
In addition, the Group operates globally which means that it may enter into contracts and other arrangements denominated in local currencies in various countries.
The Group also holds The maturity profile of the Groups contractual undiscounted financial liabilities is as follows: a number of seed capital investments which are denominated mainly in US dollars, Brazilian real and Indonesian rupiah.
At 30 June 2015 The Groups policy is to hedge a proportion of the Groups revenue by using a combination of forward foreign exchange contracts and options More than for a period of up to two years forward.
The Group also sells US dollars at spot rates when opportunities arise.
Within 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m The table below shows the Groups sensitivity to a 1.0% exchange movement in the US dollar, Brazilian real and Indonesian rupiah, net of hedging activities.
Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 11.0 11.0 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 41.5 41.5 2015 2014 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.3 Impact on Impact on profit Impact on profit Impact on Current trade and other payables 54.1 54.1 before tax equity before tax equity Foreign currency sensitivity test m m m m 106.9 106.9 US dollar - 1% 2.4 2.6 3.2 3.2 At 30 June 2014 Brazilian real - 1% 0.1 0.1 0.1 More than Indonesian rupiah - 1% 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.4 Within 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m Price risk Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 2.7 2.7 Price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of market changes.
Third-party interests in consolidated funds 13.5 13.5 Current trade and other payables 69.4 69.4 Seed capital 85.6 85.6 The Group is exposed to the risk of changes in market prices in respect of seed capital investments.
Such price risk is borne by the Group directly through interests in available-for-sale and non-current asset seed capital investments or indirectly either through line-by-line consolidation Details on leases and other commitments are provided in note 30. of underlying financial performance and positions held in certain funds or potential impairments when fair values less costs to sell of seed investments held-for-sale are less than carrying amounts.
Details of seed capital investments held are given in note 20.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market The Group has well defined procedures governing the appraisal, approval and monitoring of seed capital investments.
At 30 June 2015, a 5% movement in the fair value of these investments would have had a 10.4 million FY2013 14: 9.4 million impact The principal interest rate risk is the risk that the Group will sustain a reduction in interest income through adverse movements in interest on net assets and the impact on profit before tax would have been 4.6 million FY2013 14: 3.7 million.
The Group has a cash management policy which monitors cash Management and performance fees levels and returns within set parameters on a continuing basis.
The Group is also indirectly exposed to price risk in connection with the Groups management fees, which are based on a percentage of value Bank and similar deposits held at year end are shown on the consolidated balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents.
The effective interest of AuM, and fees based on performance.
Movements in market prices, exchange and interest rates could cause the AuM to fluctuate which earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: in turn could affect fees earned.
Performance fee revenues could also be reduced depending upon market conditions.
Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits Management and performance fees are diversified across a range of investment themes and are not measurably correlated to any single 2015 2014 market index in Emerging Markets.
In addition, throughout Ashmores history, the policy of having funds with year ends staged throughout % % the financial year has meant that in periods of steep market decline, some performance fees have still been recorded.
The profitability impact Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 1.17 0.70 is likely to be less than this, as cost mitigation actions would apply, including the reduction of the variable compensation paid to employees.
Deposits with banks and liquidity funds are repriced at intervals of less than one year.
Using the year end AuM level of US$58.9 billion and applying the years average net management fee rate of 59bps, a 5% movement in AuM would have a US$17.4 million impact on management fee revenues FY2013 14: using the year end AuM level of US$75.0 billion At 30 June 2015, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, profit before tax and applying the years average net management fee rate of 60bps, a 5% movement in AuM would have a US$22.5 million impact on for the year would have been 0.7 million higher lower FY2013 14: 1.9 million higher lower, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on management fee revenues.
Hedging activities The Group uses forward and option contracts to hedge its exposure to foreign currency risk.
These hedges, which have been assessed as In addition, the Group is indirectly exposed to interest rate risk where the Group holds seed capital investments in funds which invest in effective cash flow hedges as at 30 June 2015, protect a proportion of the Groups revenue cash flows from foreign exchange movements.
The cumulative fair value of the outstanding foreign exchange hedges asset at 30 June 2015 was 0.1 million 30 June 2014: 2.4 million foreign exchange hedges asset and is included within the Groups derivative financial instrument assets.
106 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 107 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 107 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instrument risk management continued The notional and fair values of foreign exchange hedging instruments were as follows: 2015 2014 Fair value Fair value Notional assets Notional assets amount liabilities amount liabilities m m m m Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange nil-cost option collars 97.0 0.1 85.9 2.4 97.0 0.1 85.9 2.4 The maturity profile of the Groups outstanding hedges is shown below.
2015 2014 m m Notional amount of option collars maturing: Within 6 months 52.0 39.8 6-12 months 35.0 33.3 12 months 10.0 12.8 97.0 85.9 When hedges are assessed as effective, intrinsic value gains and losses are initially recognised in other comprehensive income and later reclassified to comprehensive income as the corresponding hedged cash flows crystallise.
Time value in relation to the Groups hedges is excluded from being part of the hedging item and, as a result, the net unrealised loss related to the time value of the hedges is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year.
A 1.9 million intrinsic loss FY2013 14: 2.8 million gain on the Groups hedges has been recognised through other comprehensive income and nil intrinsic value FY2012 13: nil was reclassified from equity to the statement of comprehensive income in the year.
Included within the net realised and unrealised hedging loss of 0.4 million note 7 recognised at 30 June 2015 3.5 million gain at 30 June 2014 are: a 0.8 million loss in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ending 30 June 2015 FY2013 14: 1.7 million gain in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ended 30 June 2014 : and a 0.4 million gain in respect of crystallised foreign exchange contracts FY2013 14: 1.8 million gain.
Company The risk management processes of the Company, including those relating to the specific risk exposures covered below, are aligned with those of the Group as a whole unless stated otherwise.
In addition, the risk definitions that apply to the Group are also relevant for the Company.
Credit risk The Companys maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets.
The table below lists financial assets subject to credit risk by credit rating: 2015 2014 m m Cash and cash equivalents 114.5 249.1 Trade and other receivables 451.8 256.9 Total 566.3 506.0 The Companys cash and cash equivalents comprise short-term deposits held with banks and liquidity funds which have credit ratings ranging from Ato A as at 30 June 2015 30 June 2014: A to AAAm.
Liquidity risk The contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to the Companys financial liabilities all fall due within one year.
Details on leases and other commitments are provided in note 30.
108 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 108 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instrument risk management continued Company The notional and fair values of foreign exchange hedging instruments were as follows: Interest rate risk The principal interest rate risk for the Company is that it could sustain a reduction in interest revenue from bank deposits held in the ordinary 2015 2014 course of business through adverse movements in interest rates.
Fair value Fair value Notional assets Notional assets Bank and similar deposits held at year end are shown on the Companys balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents.
The effective interest amount liabilities amount liabilities earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: m m m m Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange nil-cost option collars 97.0 0.1 85.9 2.4 2015 2014 % % 97.0 0.1 85.9 2.4 Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 1.06 0.59 The maturity profile of the Groups outstanding hedges is shown below.
2015 2014 m m Notional amount of option collars maturing: At 30 June 2015, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for Within 6 months 52.0 39.8 the year would have been 0.3 million higher lower FY2013 14: 0.9 million higher lower, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on cash balances.
An assumption that the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates was used in the model to 6-12 months 35.0 33.3 calculate the effect on post-tax profits.
12 months 10.0 12.8 97.0 85.9 Foreign exchange risk The Company is exposed primarily to foreign exchange risk in respect of US dollar cash balances and US dollar-denominated intercompany When hedges are assessed as effective, intrinsic value gains and losses are initially recognised in other comprehensive income and later balances.
However, such risk is not hedged by the Company.
reclassified to comprehensive income as the corresponding hedged cash flows crystallise.
Time value in relation to the Groups hedges is excluded from being part of the hedging item and, as a result, the net unrealised loss related to the time value of the hedges is recognised At 30 June 2015, if the US dollar had strengthened weakened by 1% against Sterling with all other variables held constant, profit before tax in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year.
for the year would have decreased increased by 2.6 million respectively FY2013 14: decreased increased by 3.6 million respectively.
A 1.9 million intrinsic loss FY2013 14: 2.8 million gain on the Groups hedges has been recognised through other comprehensive 22 Share capital income and nil intrinsic value FY2012 13: nil was reclassified from equity to the statement of comprehensive income in the year.
Authorised share capital Included within the net realised and unrealised hedging loss of 0.4 million note 7 recognised at 30 June 2015 3.5 million gain at 2015 2014 30 June 2014 are: 2015 Nominal 2014 Nominal Number of value Number value a 0.8 million loss in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ending 30 June 2015 shares 000 of shares 000 Group and Company FY2013 14: 1.7 million gain in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ended Ordinary shares of 0.01p each 900,000,000 90 900,000,000 90 30 June 2014 : and a 0.4 million gain in respect of crystallised foreign exchange contracts FY2013 14: 1.8 million gain.
Issued share capital allotted and fully paid 2015 2014 Company 2015 Nominal 2014 Nominal Number of value Number value The risk management processes of the Company, including those relating to the specific risk exposures covered below, are aligned with shares 000 of shares 000 Group and Company those of the Group as a whole unless stated otherwise.
Ordinary shares of 0.01p each 712,740,804 71 712,740,804 71 In addition, the risk definitions that apply to the Group are also relevant for the Company.
All the above ordinary shares represent equity of the Company and rank pari passu in respect of participation and voting rights.
Credit risk At 30 June 2015 there were 175,000 30 June 2014: 503,750 options in issue with contingent rights to the allotment of ordinary shares The Companys maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets.
The table below lists financial of 0.01p in the Company.
There were also equity-settled share awards issued under the Omnibus Plan totalling 35,333,782 30 June 2014: assets subject to credit risk by credit rating: 29,315,890 shares that have release dates ranging from September 2015 to December 2019.
Further details are provided in note 10.
2015 2014 m m 23 Own shares Cash and cash equivalents 114.5 249.1 The Ashmore 2004 EBT was established to act as an agent to facilitate the acquisition and holding of shares in the Company with a view Trade and other receivables 451.8 256.9 to facilitating the recruitment and motivation of employees.
As at the year end, the EBT owned 37,889,347 30 June 2013: 37,962,631 ordinary shares of 0.01p with a nominal value of 3,789 30 June 2014: 3,796 and shareholders funds are reduced by 125.3 million Total 566.3 506.0 30 June 2014: 124.6 million in this respect.
It is the intention of the Directors to make these shares available to employees through The Companys cash and cash equivalents comprise short-term deposits held with banks and liquidity funds which have credit ratings ranging the share-based compensation plans.
The EBT is periodically funded by the Company for these purposes.
24 Treasury shares All trade and other receivables are considered to be fully recoverable and none were overdue at year end 30 June 2014: none.
Treasury shares held by the Company 2015 2014 Liquidity risk Group and Company Number m Number m The contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to the Companys financial liabilities all fall due within one year.
Ashmore Group plc ordinary shares 5,368,331 6.9 5,368,331 6.9 Details on leases and other commitments are provided in note 30.
108 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 109 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 109 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Treasury shares continued Reconciliation of treasury shares 2015 2014 Number Number At the beginning and end of the year 5,368,331 5,368,331 The market value of treasury shares was 15.5 million at the year end 30 June 2014: 19.9 million.
25 Trade and other payables Group Group Restated Company Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Current Trade and other payables 26.7 51.6 29.7 28.6 Accruals and deferred income 27.4 35.4 2.7 3.3 Amounts due to subsidiaries 5.5 0.9 Total trade and other payables 54.1 87.0 37.9 32.8 26 Interests in subsidiaries Operating subsidiaries Movements in investments in subsidiaries during the year were as follows: 2015 2014 Company m m Cost At the beginning and end of the year 20.1 20.1 In the opinion of the Directors, the following subsidiary undertakings principally affected the Groups results or financial position at 30 June 2015.
A full list of the Groups subsidiaries and all related undertakings is disclosed in note 34.
Country of incorporation formation and % of equity principal place shares held of operation by the Group Name Ashmore Investments UK Limited England 100.00 Ashmore Investment Management Limited England 100.00 Ashmore Investment Advisors Limited England 100.00 Ashmore Management Company Limited Guernsey 100.00 Ashmore Investment Management Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore 100.00 AA Development Capital Investment Managers Mauritius LLC Mauritius 55.00 Ashmore Investments Brazil Limited Guernsey 88.57 Ashmore Investments India Limited Mauritius 100.00 Ashmore Investments Turkey NV Netherlands 84.20 Ashmore Investment Management US Corporation USA 100.00 PT Ashmore Asset Management Indonesia Indonesia 70.00 Ashmore Investments Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia 90.00 Ashmore Investments Colombia SL Spain 100.00 Ashmore Japan Co. Limited Japan 100.00 Ashmore Investment Consulting Beijing Co. Limited China 100.00 Ashmore Equities Holding Corporation USA 100.00 Ashmore Equities Investment Management US LLC USA 62.90 Non-controlling interests NCI have a material economic interest in AEIM of 22.4%.
The results and net assets of AEIM for the year ended 30 June 2015, prepared in accordance with IFRS and modified for fair value adjustments on acquisition, were: net profit of 16.9 million of which 3.0 million was attributable to NCI and net assets of 27.1 million of which 11.7 million was attributable to NCI.
110 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 110 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Treasury shares continued Consolidated funds The Group consolidated the following investment funds as at 30 June 2015 over which the Group is deemed to have control: Reconciliation of treasury shares 2015 2014 Country of % of net Number Number incorporation assets value principal place held by the At the beginning and end of the year 5,368,331 5,368,331 Type of fund of operation Group Name The market value of treasury shares was 15.5 million at the year end 30 June 2014: 19.9 million.
Ashmore Brazil Long Short Fund Equity Brazil 76.81 Ashmore Special Opportunities Fund LP Alternatives Guernsey 50.00 25 Trade and other payables Ashmore Emerging Markets Distressed Debt Fund Corporate debt Guernsey 40.02 Group Group Restated Company Company Ashmore Emerging Markets Debt and Currency Fund Limited Blended debt Guernsey 97.84 2015 2014 2015 2014 Ashmore Dana Obligasi Nusantara Local currency Indonesia 88.35 m m m m Ashmore Dana USD Nusantara External debt Indonesia 100.00 Current Ashmore SICAV Turkish Equity Fund Equity Luxembourg 99.61 Trade and other payables 26.7 51.6 29.7 28.6 Ashmore SICAV Latin America Equity Fund Equity Luxembourg 100.00 Accruals and deferred income 27.4 35.4 2.7 3.3 Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Local Currency Bonds Broad Fund Local currency Luxembourg 47.75 Amounts due to subsidiaries 5.5 0.9 Ashmore Emerging Markets Debt Fund External debt USA 97.77 Total trade and other payables 54.1 87.0 37.9 32.8 Ashmore Emerging Markets Frontier Equity Fund Equity USA 78.93 26 Interests in subsidiaries Ashmore Emerging Markets Equity Fund Equity USA 66.22 Operating subsidiaries 27 Interests in associates and joint arrangements Movements in investments in subsidiaries during the year were as follows: The Group held interests in the following associates and joint ventures as at 30 June 2015: 2015 2014 Company m m Country of incorporation % of equity formation and principal shares held by Cost Name Type Nature of business place of operation the Group At the beginning and end of the year 20.1 20.1 VTB-Ashmore Capital Holdings Limited Associate Investment management Russia 50% Everbright Ashmore Associate Investment management China 30% In the opinion of the Directors, the following subsidiary undertakings principally affected the Groups results or financial position at 30 June 2015.
Central China Securities Co. Limited Joint venture Investment management China 49% Country of Everbright Ashmore includes four related investment management entities.
incorporation The associates and the joint venture are unlisted.
formation and % of equity principal place shares held Movements in investments in associates and joint ventures during the year were as follows: of operation by the Group Name 2015 2014 Ashmore Investments UK Limited England 100.00 Joint Ashmore Investment Management Limited England 100.00 Associates ventures Total Associates Joint ventures Total Ashmore Investment Advisors Limited England 100.00 m m m m m m Ashmore Management Company Limited Guernsey 100.00 At the beginning of the year 2.3 7.4 9.7 2.3 9.5 11.8 Ashmore Investment Management Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore 100.00 Additions AA Development Capital Investment Managers Mauritius LLC Mauritius 55.00 Share of profit loss 0.1 1.5 1.6 0.2 2.1 1.9 Ashmore Investments Brazil Limited Guernsey 88.57 Distributions 0.6 0.6 0.2 0.2 Ashmore Investments India Limited Mauritius 100.00 Foreign exchange revaluation 0.2 0.2 Ashmore Investments Turkey NV Netherlands 84.20 At the end of the year 1.4 5.9 7.3 2.3 7.4 9.7 Ashmore Investment Management US Corporation USA 100.00 PT Ashmore Asset Management Indonesia Indonesia 70.00 Associates The summarised aggregate financial information on associates is shown below.
Ashmore Investments Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia 90.00 Ashmore Investments Colombia SL Spain 100.00 2015 2014 Group m m Ashmore Japan Co. Limited Japan 100.00 Total assets 3.3 3.4 Ashmore Investment Consulting Beijing Co. Limited China 100.00 Total liabilities 0.3 1.1 Ashmore Equities Holding Corporation USA 100.00 Net assets 3.0 2.3 Ashmore Equities Investment Management US LLC USA 62.90 Groups share of net assets 0.9 0.7 Non-controlling interests NCI have a material economic interest in AEIM of 22.4%.
The results and net assets of AEIM for the year ended 30 June 2015, prepared in accordance with IFRS and modified for fair value adjustments on acquisition, were: net profit of 16.9 million of which 3.0 million was attributable to NCI and net assets Revenue for the year 0.7 4.6 of 27.1 million of which 11.7 million was attributable to NCI.
Profit for the year 0.3 0.6 Groups share of profit for the year 0.1 0.2 110 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 111 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 111 Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Interests in associates and joint arrangements continued The carrying value of the investments in associates includes attributable goodwill that arose on acquisition of the associates.
Although the Groups share of net assets of the associates is currently below the aggregate carrying value of the associates reflected on the consolidated balance sheet, the Group has considered that this position is temporary.
No permanent impairment is believed to exist relating to the associates.
The Group has undrawn capital commitments of 4.2 million 30 June 2014: 5.1 million to investment funds managed by the associates.
Further details are provided in note 28.
Joint ventures The Group owns 49% interest in a fund management joint venture with Central China Securities Co. Limited in China.
Under the terms of the agreement and upon being granted the required approvals by the China Securities Regulatory Commission and other relevant government authorities, the Group contributed its share of the initial capitalisation, equivalent to 9.9 million.
Summarised financial information on the Groups share in the joint venture is shown below: 2015 2014 m m Current assets 5.6 8.7 Non-current assets 0.1 Current liabilities 0.3 1.4 Total equity 5.3 7.4 Income 0.2 0.6 Expenses 1.7 2.7 Loss for the year 1.5 2.1 28 Interests in structured entities The Group has interests in structured entities as a result of the management of assets on behalf of its clients.
Where the Group holds a direct interest in a closed-ended fund, private equity fund or open-ended pooled fund such as a SICAV, the interest is accounted for either as a consolidated structured entity or as a financial asset depending on whether the Group has control over the fund or not.
The Groups interest in structured entities is reflected in the Groups AuM.
The Group is exposed to movements in AuM of structured entities through potential loss of fee income as a result of client withdrawals.
Outflows from funds are dependent on market sentiment, asset performance and investor considerations.
Further information on these risks can be found in the Business review.
Considering the potential for changes in AuM of structured entities, management has determined that the Groups unconsolidated structured entities include segregated mandates and pooled funds vehicles.
Disclosure of the Groups exposure to unconsolidated structured entities has been made on this basis.
The reconciliation of AuM reported by the Group within unconsolidated structured entities is shown below.
Less: AuM within AuM within unconsolidated consolidated structured Total AuM funds entities US$bn US$bn US$bn 30 June 2015 58.9 0.2 58.7 Included in the Groups consolidated management fees of 250.2 million are management fees amounting to 245.8 million earned from unconsolidated structured entities.
The table below shows the carrying values of the Groups interests in unconsolidated structured entities, recognised in the Group balance sheet, which are equal to the Groups maximum exposure to loss from those interests.
2015 m Management fees receivable 46.5 Trade and other receivables 4.7 Seed capital investments 102.0 Total exposure 153.2 The main risk the Group faces from its beneficial interests in unconsolidated structured entities arises from a potential decrease in the fair value of seed capital investments.
The Groups beneficial interests in seed capital investments are disclosed in note 20.
Note 21 includes further information on the Groups exposure to market risk arising from seed capital investments.
112 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 112 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Interests in associates and joint arrangements continued The Group has undrawn investment commitments relating to structured entities as follows.
The carrying value of the investments in associates includes attributable goodwill that arose on acquisition of the associates.
Although the Groups 2015 2014 share of net assets of the associates is currently below the aggregate carrying value of the associates reflected on the consolidated balance m m sheet, the Group has considered that this position is temporary.
Ashmore I FCP Colombia Infrastructure Fund 2.3 2.9 The Group has undrawn capital commitments of 4.2 million 30 June 2014: 5.1 million to investment funds managed by the associates.
Everbright Ashmore China Real Estate Fund 1.3 1.6 Further details are provided in note 28.
VTBC-Ashmore Real Estate Partners I, LP 2.9 3.5 Joint ventures Ashmore Special Opportunities Fund LP 6.9 The Group owns 49% interest in a fund management joint venture with Central China Securities Co. Limited in China.
Under the terms of the Ashmore Emerging Markets Distressed Debt Fund 1.4 agreement and upon being granted the required approvals by the China Securities Regulatory Commission and other relevant government Ashmore Emerging Markets Corporate Private Debt Fund 1.2 authorities, the Group contributed its share of the initial capitalisation, equivalent to 9.9 million.
Total undrawn investment commitments 16.0 8.0 Summarised financial information on the Groups share in the joint venture is shown below: 29 Related party transactions 2015 2014 Related parties of the Group include key management personnel, close family members of key management personnel, subsidiaries, m m associates, joint ventures, Ashmore Funds, the EBT and the Ashmore Foundation.
Current assets 5.6 8.7 Non-current assets 0.1 Key management personnel Group and Company Current liabilities 0.3 1.4 The compensation paid to or payable to key management personnel for employee services is shown below: Total equity 5.3 7.4 2015 2014 m m m Short-term employee benefits 1.4 0.9 Income 0.2 0.6 Defined contribution pension costs Expenses 1.7 2.7 Share-based payment benefits 2.9 0.4 Loss for the year 1.5 2.1 4.3 0.5 28 Interests in structured entities Share-based payment benefits represent the fair value charge to the statement of comprehensive income of current year share awards.
The Group has interests in structured entities as a result of the management of assets on behalf of its clients.
Where the Group holds a direct interest in a closed-ended fund, private equity fund or open-ended pooled fund such as a SICAV, the interest is accounted for either Details of the remuneration of Directors are given in the Remuneration report on pages 52 to 65. as a consolidated structured entity or as a financial asset depending on whether the Group has control over the fund or not.
During the year, there were no other transactions entered into with key management personnel FY2013 14: none.
Aggregate key The Groups interest in structured entities is reflected in the Groups AuM.
The Group is exposed to movements in AuM of structured management personnel interests in consolidated funds at 30 June 2015 were 11.5 million 30 June 2014: 3.4 million.
entities through potential loss of fee income as a result of client withdrawals.
Outflows from funds are dependent on market sentiment, Transactions with subsidiaries Company asset performance and investor considerations.
Details of transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are shown below: Considering the potential for changes in AuM of structured entities, management has determined that the Groups unconsolidated structured entities include segregated mandates and pooled funds vehicles.
Disclosure of the Groups exposure to unconsolidated 2015 2014 m m structured entities has been made on this basis.
Transactions during the year The reconciliation of AuM reported by the Group within unconsolidated structured entities is shown below.
Management fees received 78.8 45.0 Less: AuM within Net dividends received 141.1 143.2 AuM within unconsolidated consolidated structured Loans given to subsidiaries 44.5 40.9 Total AuM funds entities US$bn US$bn US$bn Amounts receivable or payable to subsidiaries are disclosed in notes 17 and 25, respectively.
30 June 2015 58.9 0.2 58.7 Transactions with Ashmore Funds Group Included in the Groups consolidated management fees of 250.2 million are management fees amounting to 245.8 million earned from During the year, the Group received 137.7 million of gross management fees and performance fees FY2013 14: 158.5 million from the unconsolidated structured entities.
96 funds FY2013 14: 90 funds it manages and which are classified as related parties.
As at 30 June 2015 the Group had receivables due from funds of 46.8 million 30 June 2014: 55.3 million.
Transactions with the EBT Group and Company 2015 The EBT, which acts as an agent for the purpose of the employee share-based compensation plans, has been provided a loan facility to allow it m to acquire Ashmore shares in order to satisfy outstanding unvested shares awards.
The EBT is included within the results of the Group and the Management fees receivable 46.5 Company.
As at year end the loan outstanding was 149.0 million 30 June 2014: 137.6 million.
Trade and other receivables 4.7 Transaction with the Ashmore Foundation Group and Company Seed capital investments 102.0 The Ashmore Foundation is a related party to the Group.
The Foundation was set up to provide financial grants to worthwhile causes within Total exposure 153.2 the Emerging Markets countries in which Ashmore invests and or operates with a view to giving back to the countries and communities.
The Group donated 0.1 million to the Foundation during the year FY2013 14: 0.1 million.
The main risk the Group faces from its beneficial interests in unconsolidated structured entities arises from a potential decrease in the fair value of seed capital investments.
112 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 113 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 113 Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Commitments Operating lease commitments The Group and Company have entered into certain property leases.
The leases have no escalation clauses or renewal or purchase options, and no restrictions imposed on them.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under these non-cancellable operating leases fall due as follows: Group 2015 2014 m m Within 1 year 2.3 2.8 Between 1 and 5 years 8.5 8.2 Later than 5 years 6.6 5.2 17.4 16.2 Company 2015 2014 m m Within 1 year 1.2 1.2 Between 1 and 5 years 4.6 4.6 Later than 5 years 4.1 5.2 9.9 11.0 Operating lease expenses are disclosed in note 11.
Company The Company has undrawn loan commitments to other Group entities totalling 58.9 million 30 June 2014: 84.2 million to support their investment activities but has no investment commitments of its own 30 June 2014: none.
31 Restatements on adoption of IFRS 10 As explained in note 3, the Group adopted IFRS 10 in the year and has reassessed its consolidation conclusions effective from 1 July 2014.
As a result, the Group consolidated four additional funds retrospectively, with the impact of increasing consolidated total assets and liabilities by 73.9 million as at 1 July 2014.
These funds were previously accounted for as financial assets and classified as available-for-sale financial assets and investments held at fair value through profit and loss.
The Groups comparative cash flow statement has also been restated, with the effect of increasing subscriptions and redemptions in consolidated funds by 44.6 million and 40.2 million, respectively.
The Group has restated comparative information where relevant, as shown below.
Impact on consolidated statement of comprehensive income 30 June 2014 As previously IFRS 10 reported restatement As restated m m m Net revenue 262.9 262.9 Operating profit 169.7 1.6 171.3 Profit before tax 170.3 1.3 171.6 Profit for the period 133.4 1.3 134.7 Other comprehensive income, net of related tax effect 21.9 1.3 23.2 Total comprehensive income for the period 111.5 111.5 Profit attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 130.8 1.3 132.1 Non-controlling interests 2.6 2.6 Profit for the period 133.4 1.3 134.7 Earnings per share Basic 19.29p 0.19p 19.48p Diluted 18.44p 0.19p 18.63p 114 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 114 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Commitments Impact on consolidated balance sheets 30 June 2014 30 June 2013 Operating lease commitments As As The Group and Company have entered into certain property leases.
The leases have no escalation clauses or renewal or purchase options, previously IFRS 10 previously IFRS 10 and no restrictions imposed on them.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under these non-cancellable operating leases fall due reported restatement As restated reported restatement As restated as follows: Condensed consolidated balance sheet m m m m m m Non-current assets 118.1 118.1 130.6 130.6 Group Investment securities 70.7 102.5 173.2 49.7 57.8 107.5 2015 2014 m m Available-for-sale financial assets 48.5 19.1 29.4 55.6 19.2 36.4 Within 1 year 2.3 2.8 Fair value through profit or loss investments 25.3 16.9 8.4 Between 1 and 5 years 8.5 8.2 Trade and other receivables 64.0 5.7 69.7 77.3 5.2 82.5 Later than 5 years 6.6 5.2 Derivative financial instruments 2.4 0.1 2.5 17.4 16.2 Cash and cash equivalents 370.6 1.6 372.2 395.5 0.2 395.7 Non-current assets held-for-sale 39.1 39.1 104.9 104.9 Company Total assets 738.7 73.9 812.6 813.6 44.0 857.6 2015 2014 m m Non-current liabilities 4.5 4.5 3.0 3.0 Within 1 year 1.2 1.2 Current tax 16.4 16.4 28.9 28.9 Between 1 and 5 years 4.6 4.6 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 13.5 56.2 69.7 12.8 28.0 40.8 Later than 5 years 4.1 5.2 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 2.1 0.1 2.2 9.9 11.0 Trade and other payables 69.4 17.6 87.0 94.1 15.9 110.0 Operating lease expenses are disclosed in note 11.
Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 2.7 2.7 26.9 26.9 Company Total liabilities 106.5 73.9 180.4 167.8 44.0 211.8 The Company has undrawn loan commitments to other Group entities totalling 58.9 million 30 June 2014: 84.2 million to support their investment activities but has no investment commitments of its own 30 June 2014: none.
Share capital 15.7 15.7 15.7 15.7 Retained earnings 616.4 1.8 618.2 608.0 0.5 608.5 31 Restatements on adoption of IFRS 10 Foreign exchange reserve 12.8 1.8 14.6 5.3 0.3 5.0 As explained in note 3, the Group adopted IFRS 10 in the year and has reassessed its consolidation conclusions effective from 1 July 2014.
Available-for-sale fair value reserve 5.3 5.3 0.7 0.2 0.5 As a result, the Group consolidated four additional funds retrospectively, with the impact of increasing consolidated total assets and liabilities by 73.9 million as at 1 July 2014.
These funds were previously accounted for as financial assets and classified as available-for-sale financial assets Cash flow hedging reserve 1.8 1.8 1.0 1.0 and investments held at fair value through profit and loss.
The Groups comparative cash flow statement has also been restated, with the effect Non-controlling interests 16.4 16.4 17.1 17.1 of increasing subscriptions and redemptions in consolidated funds by 44.6 million and 40.2 million, respectively.
Total equity 632.2 632.2 645.8 645.8 The Group has restated comparative information where relevant, as shown below.
32 Post-balance sheet events Impact on consolidated statement of comprehensive income There were no post-balance sheet events that required adjustment of or disclosure in the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2015.
30 June 2014 33 Accounting estimates and judgements As previously IFRS 10 reported restatement As restated Estimates and judgements used in preparing the financial statements are regularly evaluated and are based upon managements assessment m m m of current and future events.
The principal estimates and judgements that have a significant effect on the carrying amounts of assets and Net revenue 262.9 262.9 liabilities are discussed below.
Operating profit 169.7 1.6 171.3 Impairment of intangible assets Profit before tax 170.3 1.3 171.6 The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets annually for impairment.
The recoverable amount for goodwill is determined in reference to Profit for the period 133.4 1.3 134.7 the Groups market capitalisation, whereas the recoverable amount for intangible assets is determined based upon value in use calculations Other comprehensive income, net of related tax effect 21.9 1.3 23.2 prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets on the Groups balance sheet at 30 June 2015 was 74.1 million 30 June 2014: 72.2 million.
Management considers that reasonable possible changes in any Total comprehensive income for the period 111.5 111.5 of the key assumptions applied would not cause the carrying value of goodwill to materially exceed its recoverable value.
An impairment charge of 0.4 million was recognised on the intangible assets, representing the excess of the carrying value over its recoverable value see note 15.
Profit attributable to: Performance fees Equity holders of the parent 130.8 1.3 132.1 The Group assesses the recognition of performance fees to determine whether receipt of the fees is considered probable and the amount Non-controlling interests 2.6 2.6 reliable.
The assessment is made using managements judgement of the circumstances relevant to each performance fee entitlement.
Profit for the period 133.4 1.3 134.7 There were no outstanding performance fees receivable at 30 June 2015 30 June 2014: none.
Share-based payment transactions Earnings per share The Group measures the cost of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based awards at fair value at the date of grant and expenses them over Basic 19.29p 0.19p 19.48p the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest.
Diluted 18.44p 0.19p 18.63p 114 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 115 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 115 Notes to the financial statements continued 33 Accounting estimates and judgements continued Classification of seed capital investments The Group invests seed capital from time to time to support the initial launch and growth of new products, such as SICAVs, private-equity funds and alternative investment funds.
The seed capital investments vary in duration depending on the nature of the product and the time expected to grow the funds to a size and track record required for participation by third-party investors.
The Group reviews the size and nature of these investments to consider the level of control over the fund and to determine the appropriate classification for accounting either as full consolidation where the Group concludes that it has control over the fund, using equity-method accounting where the Group exercises significant influence or joint control, or as a financial asset classified as available-for-sale, held-for-sale or at fair value through profit or loss.
In the case of seed capital investments, where the Group concludes that it does not have control over the fund, the Group is also not deemed to have significant influence over the fund, and therefore does not apply equity-method accounting.
The Group would account for the seed capital investment as a financial asset, classified either as an available-for-sale financial asset, financial asset held-for-sale, or a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group considers that its seeding activity is intended to help establish a funds track record and to provide initial scale until the fund has attracted sufficient third-party capital, at which stage the Group will actively seek to redeem and redeploy the seed capital.
The adoption of IFRS 10 has led to additional funds being consolidated where the Group is now deemed to hold a controlling interest as defined in IFRS 10.
Prior to the adoption of IFRS 10, the Group consolidated funds as held-for-sale assets and liabilities or consolidated funds, when the Groups aggregate economic interest gave the Group control over these funds.
However, the change to the definition of control under IFRS 10 means that certain of the Groups funds now meet the definition of a subsidiary as they are deemed to be controlled by the Group as a result of the combination of holding a significant proprietary investment and additionally being the investment manager, with third-party investors unable to remove the Group or Group subsidiary entities easily from that role without cause.
Interests in unconsolidated structured entities Management exercises judgement to determine whether the Group controls an investment fund under IFRS 10, including making an assessment of whether the Group has power over the fund which the Group exercises for self-benefit.
Management also assesses the magnitude of the Groups aggregate economic interest in the fund comprising direct interests, carried interests, expected management fees, fair value gains or losses, and distributions receivable from funds managed relative to third-party investors, and whether third-party investors have substantive rights to remove the Group from acting as a fund manager without cause.
The Group has assessed and classified the following fund vehicles as unconsolidated structured entities: Segregated mandates and pooled funds managed where the Group does not hold a direct interest, for example, seed capital investment.
The Group has assessed that third-party investors have the practical ability to vote by a simple majority, to remove the Group from acting as fund manager without cause.
As a result, the Group has concluded that it acts as agent for the third-party investors.
Pooled funds managed where the Group holds interests, for example seed capital investments, and the Groups aggregate economic exposure in the fund relative to third-party investors is less than 20% i. e. the threshold established below which the Group is deemed to act as an agent, and above which the Group is deemed to act as a principal, taking into account investor kick-out rights.
As a result, the Group concluded it is an agent for third-party investors and, therefore, has accounted for its beneficial interest in the fund as a financial asset.
Further details on the carrying values of these seed capital financial assets have been disclosed under note 20.
The disclosure of the AuM in respect of consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities is provided under note 28.
116 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 116 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 33 Accounting estimates and judgements continued 34 Subsidiaries and related undertakings The following is a full list of the Ashmore Group plc subsidiaries and related undertakings as at 30 June 2015 pursuant to the requirements of Classification of seed capital investments Statutory Instrument 2015 No.
80 The Companies, Partnerships and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2015.
The list includes the The Group invests seed capital from time to time to support the initial launch and growth of new products, such as SICAVs, private-equity Groups subsidiaries and related undertakings, all significant holdings greater than 20% interest, associate undertakings, joint ventures and funds and alternative investment funds.
The seed capital investments vary in duration depending on the nature of the product and the time significant holdings in Ashmore sponsored public funds in which the Group has invested seed capital: expected to grow the funds to a size and track record required for participation by third-party investors.
The Group reviews the size and nature Country of of these investments to consider the level of control over the fund and to determine the appropriate classification for accounting either as incorporation principal full consolidation where the Group concludes that it has control over the fund, using equity-method accounting where the Group exercises Name place of operation Classification % interest significant influence or joint control, or as a financial asset classified as available-for-sale, held-for-sale or at fair value through profit or loss.
Ashmore Brasil Gestora fide Recursos Limitada Brazil Subsidiary 100.00 In the case of seed capital investments, where the Group concludes that it does not have control over the fund, the Group is also not deemed Ashmore Investment Consulting Beijing Co. Limited China Subsidiary 100.00 to have significant influence over the fund, and therefore does not apply equity-method accounting.
The Group would account for the seed Ashmore Management Company Colombia SAS Colombia Subsidiary 61.00 capital investment as a financial asset, classified either as an available-for-sale financial asset, financial asset held-for-sale, or a financial asset Ashmore Investments UK Limited England and Wales Subsidiary 100.00 at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group considers that its seeding activity is intended to help establish a funds track record and to provide initial scale until the fund has attracted sufficient third-party capital, at which stage the Group will actively seek to redeem and Ashmore Investment Management Limited England and Wales Subsidiary 100.00 redeploy the seed capital.
Ashmore Investment Advisors Limited England and Wales Subsidiary 100.00 The adoption of IFRS 10 has led to additional funds being consolidated where the Group is now deemed to hold a controlling interest as Aldwych Administration Services Limited England and Wales Subsidiary 100.00 defined in IFRS 10.
Prior to the adoption of IFRS 10, the Group consolidated funds as held-for-sale assets and liabilities or consolidated funds, Ashmore Asset Management Limited England and Wales Subsidiary 100.00 when the Groups aggregate economic interest gave the Group control over these funds.
This policy has not changed subsequent to the Ashmore Investments Brazil Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 88.00 adoption of IFRS 10.
However, the change to the definition of control under IFRS 10 means that certain of the Groups funds now meet the Ashmore Management Company Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 definition of a subsidiary as they are deemed to be controlled by the Group as a result of the combination of holding a significant proprietary Ashmore Management Company Turkey Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 investment and additionally being the investment manager, with third-party investors unable to remove the Group or Group subsidiary entities Ashmore Private Equity Turkey Fund 1 GP Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 easily from that role without cause.
Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 3 GP Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Interests in unconsolidated structured entities Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 4 GP Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 Management exercises judgement to determine whether the Group controls an investment fund under IFRS 10, including making an Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 5 GP Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 assessment of whether the Group has power over the fund which the Group exercises for self-benefit.
Management also assesses the magnitude of the Groups aggregate economic interest in the fund comprising direct interests, carried interests, expected management fees, VTBC-Ashmore Investment Management Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 fair value gains or losses, and distributions receivable from funds managed relative to third-party investors, and whether third-party investors VTBC-Ashmore Partnership Management 1 Limited Guernsey Subsidiary 100.00 have substantive rights to remove the Group from acting as a fund manager without cause.
AA Indian Development Capital Advisors Private Limited India Subsidiary 100.00 The Group has assessed and classified the following fund vehicles as unconsolidated structured entities: Ashmore Investment Advisors India Private Limited India Subsidiary 99.82 Ashmore-Centrum India Opportunities Investment Advisers Private Limited India Subsidiary 51.00 Segregated mandates and pooled funds managed where the Group does not hold a direct interest, for example, seed capital investment.
The Group has assessed that third-party investors have the practical ability to vote by a simple majority, to remove the Group from acting Ashmore-Centrum Funds Trustee Company Private Limited India Subsidiary 51.00 as fund manager without cause.
PT Ashmore Asset Management Indonesia Indonesia Subsidiary 70.00 Pooled funds managed where the Group holds interests, for example seed capital investments, and the Groups aggregate economic Ashmore Japan Co. Limited Japan Subsidiary 100.00 exposure in the fund relative to third-party investors is less than 20% i. e. the threshold established below which the Group is deemed to act AA Development Capital Investment Managers Mauritius LLC Mauritius Subsidiary 55.00 as an agent, and above which the Group is deemed to act as a principal, taking into account investor kick-out rights.
As a result, the Group Ashmore Investments India Limited Mauritius Subsidiary 100.00 concluded it is an agent for third-party investors and, therefore, has accounted for its beneficial interest in the fund as a financial asset.
Ashmore Investments Turkey NV Netherlands Subsidiary 84.20 Further details on the carrying values of these seed capital financial assets have been disclosed under note 20.
Ashmore Russia LLC Russia Subsidiary 100.00 The disclosure of the AuM in respect of consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities is provided under note 28.
Ashmore Investment Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia Subsidiary 90.00 Ashmore Investment Management Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Investments Colombia SL Spain Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Portfoy Yonetimi Anonim Sirketi Turkey Subsidiary 99.96 Ashmore Emlak five Yatirim Ltd Sirketi Turkey Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Investment Management US Corporation USA Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Equities Holding Corporation USA Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Equities Investment Management US LLC USA Subsidiary 62.90 Everbright Ashmore Real Estate Partners Limited Cayman Islands Associate 30.00 Everbright Ashmore Services and Consulting Limited Cayman Islands Associate 30.00 Everbright Ashmore Investment Management Limited Cayman Islands Associate 30.00 EA Team Investment Partners Limited Cayman Islands Associate 30.00 T&C Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Associate 24.00 Ashmore Central China Securities Co. Limited China Joint venture 49.00 VTB-Ashmore Capital Holdings Limited Russia Associate 50.00 116 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 117 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 117 Notes to the financial statements continued 34 Subsidiaries and related undertakings continued Country of incorporation principal place of business Classification % interest Name Ashmore Brazil Long Short Fund Brazil Consolidated fund 76.81 Ashmore Special Opportunities Fund LP Guernsey Consolidated fund 50.00 Ashmore Emerging Markets Distressed Debt Fund Guernsey Consolidated fund 40.02 Ashmore Emerging Markets Debt and Currency Fund Limited Guernsey Consolidated fund 97.84 Ashmore Dana Obligasi Nusantara Indonesia Consolidated fund 88.35 Ashmore Dana USD Nusantara Indonesia Consolidated fund 100.00 Ashmore SICAV Turkish Equity Fund Luxembourg Consolidated fund 99.61 Ashmore SICAV Latin America Equity Fund Luxembourg Consolidated fund 100.00 Ashmore SICAV Emerging Markets Local Currency Bonds Broad Fund Luxembourg Consolidated fund 47.75 Ashmore Emerging Markets Debt Fund USA Consolidated fund 97.84 Ashmore Emerging Markets Frontier Equity Fund USA Consolidated fund 78.93 Ashmore Emerging Markets Equity Fund USA Consolidated fund 66.22 Everbright Ashmore China Real Estate Fund China Significant holding 22.78 Ashmore Russian Debt Fund Guernsey Significant holding 83.33 Ashmore Dana Ekuitas Nusantara Indonesia Significant holding 27.64 Ashmore Dana USD Equity Nusantara Indonesia Significant holding 82.18 Ashmore SICAV Frontier Equity Fund Luxembourg Significant holding 31.93 Ashmore SICAV 3 EM Multi Strategy Fund Luxembourg Significant holding 33.45 Ashmore SICAV 3 All Chinese Equity Fund Luxembourg Significant holding 50.00 Ashmore SICAV 3 Chinese Debt Fund Luxembourg Significant holding 100.00 Ashmore SICAV 3 Chinese Multi-Strategy Fund Luxembourg Significant holding 100.00 Ashmore Saudi GCC Equity Fund Saudi Arabia Significant holding 33.64 Ashmore Saudi Equity Fund Saudi Arabia Significant holding 37.81 Ashmore Turkey Equity Fund Turkey Significant holding 73.39 Ashmore Emerging Markets Local Currency Fund USA Significant holding 36.07 Ashmore Emerging Markets Short Duration Fund USA Significant holding 36.74 Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements It is possible that this document could or may contain forward looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events.
These forward looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
Forward looking statements often use words such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, will, may, should, would, could or other words of similar meaning.
Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and the Groups plans and objectives, to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements.
There are several factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward looking statements.
Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements are changes in global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business combinations or dispositions.
The Group undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward looking statement contained within this document, regardless of whether those statements are affected as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
118 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 118 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015
