IFRS Financial statements Accounting policies Accounting policies Aviva plc the Company, a public limited company existing guidance and there is no impact on the Groups incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK, consolidated financial statements.
together with its subsidiaries collectively, the Group or Aviva Standards, interpretations and amendments to published transacts life assurance and long-term savings business, fund standards that are not yet effective and have not been management and most classes of general insurance and health adopted early by the Group business through its subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and The following new standards, amendments to existing standards branches in the UK, Ireland, continental Europe, Canada, Asia have been issued, are not yet effective and have not been and other countries throughout the world.
adopted early by the Group: The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies i Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and otherwise stated.
Amortisation These amendments provide additional guidance on how A Basis of preparation the depreciation or amortisation of property, plant and The consolidated financial statements and those of the equipment and intangible assets should be calculated.
The Company have been prepared and approved by the directors in amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 prohibit the use of accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards revenue-based depreciation for property, plant and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board equipment and significantly limit the use of revenue-based IASB and as endorsed by the European Union EU, and those amortisation for intangible assets.
parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to those reporting The adoption of these amendments is not expected to under IFRS.
In addition to fulfilling their legal obligation to have a significant impact for the Groups consolidated comply with IFRS as adopted by the EU, the Group and the financial statements as the Group does not apply revenueCompany have also complied with IFRS as issued by the IASB based depreciation or amortisation.
These amendments are applicable at 31 December 2015.
The consolidated financial effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after statements have been prepared under the historical cost 1 January 2016 and have been endorsed by the EU.
convention, as modified by the revaluation of land and buildings, investment property, available-for-sale financial assets, ii Amendments to IAS 27, Equity Method in Separate and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative Financial Statements instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The amendments to IAS 27 allow investments in In accordance with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, the Group subsidiaries to be accounted for using the equity method has applied existing accounting practices for insurance and within the Companys financial statements.
The Company participating investment contracts, modified as appropriate to does not intend to use the equity method in its separate comply with the IFRS framework and applicable standards.
The amendments to IAS 27 are Further details are given in accounting policy G. effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after Items included in the financial statements of each of the 1 January 2016 and have been endorsed by the EU.
Groups entities are measured in the currency of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates the iii Narrow scope amendments to IFRS10, IFRS 12 and IAS functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are 28 Applying the Consolidation Exception stated in pounds sterling, which is the Companys functional These narrow scope amendments clarify the application of and presentational currency.
Unless otherwise noted, the the requirements for investment entities to measure amounts shown in these financial statements are in millions of subsidiaries at fair value instead of consolidating them.
pounds sterling m. The separate financial statements of the There are no implications for the Groups consolidated Company are on pages 270 to 278. financial statements as the Group does not meet the There is a presentation change related to the definition of definition of an investment entity.
These amendments are operating profit detailed in note 1 for which comparative figures effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after have been restated.
There is no impact on reported profit or 1 January 2016 and have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
equity as a result of this.
iv Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative New standards, interpretations and amendments to These amendments clarify guidance in IAS 1 on materiality published standards that have been adopted by the Group and aggregation, the presentation of subtotals, the The Group has adopted the following amendments to standards structure of financial statements and the disclosure of which became effective for the annual reporting period accounting policies.
The amendments form part of the beginning on 1 January 2015.
IASBs Disclosure Initiative, which explores how financial statement disclosures can be improved.
The adoption of i Amendments to IAS 19, Employee Benefits these amendments will have no impact on the Groups Employee Contributions profit or loss or equity.
The amendments are effective for These narrow scope amendments simplify accounting for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January defined benefit plans that require contributions from 2016 and have been endorsed by the EU.
The adoption of the amendments has no impact on the Groups consolidated v Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 financial statements as the Group does not have defined These improvements consist of amendments to five IFRSs benefit plans that require employees or third parties to including IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and contribute to the cost of the plan.
Discontinued Operations, IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The ii Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 amendments clarify existing guidance.
The adoption of These improvements to IFRSs consist of amendments to these amendments is not expected to have a significant four IFRSs including IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IFRS impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
The amendments clarify Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 133 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 133 Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued The amendments are effective for annual reporting periods implications for the Groups consolidated financial beginning on or after 1 January 2016 and have been statements.
In December 2015, the IASB postponed the endorsed by the EU.
effective date of these amendments indefinitely pending the outcome of its research project on the equity method vi IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers of accounting.
IFRS 15 will replace IAS 18 Revenue and establishes a principle based five-step model to be applied to all ix IFRS 16 Leases contracts with customers, except for insurance contracts, In January 2016, the IASB published IFRS 16 Leases which financial instruments and lease contracts.
IFRS 15 also will replace IAS 17 Leases.
IFRS 16 introduces a definition includes enhanced disclosure requirements.
The impact of of a lease with a single lessee accounting model the adoption of the new standard has yet to be fully eliminating the classification of either operating or finance assessed by the Group.
This standard applies to annual leases.
Lessees will be required to account for all leases in a reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 similar manner to the current financial lease accounting and has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
recognising lease assets and liabilities on the statement of financial position.
Lessor accounting remains similar to vii IFRS 9, Financial Instruments current practice.
The impact of the adoption of IFRS 16 has In July 2014, the IASB published IFRS 9 Financial yet to be fully assessed by the Group.
This standard applies Instruments which will replace IAS 39 Financial to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The standard January 2019 and has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
incorporates new classification and measurements requirements for financial assets, the introduction of an x Narrow scope amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of expected credit loss impairment model which will replace Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses the incurred loss model of IAS 39, and new hedge The revisions to IAS 12 Income Taxes clarify the accounting accounting requirements.
Under IFRS 9, all financial assets for deferred tax assets on unrealised losses and state that will be measured at either amortised cost or fair value.
The deferred tax assets should be recognised when an asset is basis of classification will depend on the business model measured at fair value and that fair value is below the and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the assets tax base.
It also provides further clarification on the financial assets.
The standard retains most of IAS 39s estimation of probable future taxable profits that may requirements for financial liabilities except for those support the recognition of deferred tax assets.
The designated at fair value through profit or loss whereby that adoption of this amendment is not expected to have an part of the fair value changes attributable to own credit is impact on the consolidated financial statements as the to be recognised in other comprehensive income instead of clarifications to IAS 12 are consistent with our existing the income statement.
The hedge accounting requirements interpretation.
The amendment is effective from 1 January are more closely aligned with risk management practices 2017 and has not yet been endorsed by EU.
and follow a more principle based approach.
In December 2015, the IASB published an Exposure xi Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure initiative Draft to consult on amendments to IFRS 4 Insurance The amendments to IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows, which Contracts that would address the accounting form part of the IASBs Disclosure Initiative, require consequences of the application of IFRS 9 to insurers prior disclosure of the movements in liabilities arising from to the publication of the new accounting standard for financing activities with cash and non-cash changes insurance contracts.
The ED introduces two alternative presented separately.
The adoption of this amendment is options to insurers: the overlay approach and the deferral not expected to have an impact on the consolidated approach.
The deferral approach provides an entity, if financial statements as the Group already voluntarily eligible, with a temporary exemption from applying IFRS 9 discloses this information in note 49.
The amendment is until the earlier of the effective date of a new insurance effective from 1 January 2017 and has not yet been contract standard or 2021.
The overlay approach allows an endorsed by EU.
entity to remove from profit or loss the effects of some of the accounting mismatches that may occur before the new B Operating profit insurance contracts standard is applied.
These amendments The long-term nature of much of the Groups operations means are expected to be finalised and issued in 2016. that, for managements decision-making and internal Until the forthcoming ED is finalised, and the performance management, short-term realised and unrealised interaction with the new insurance contracts standard is investment gains and losses are treated as non-operating items.
clear, it is not possible to fully assess the effect of the The Group focuses instead on an operating profit measure also adoption of IFRS 9.
IFRS 9 has not yet been endorsed by referred to as adjusted operating profit that incorporates an the EU.
expected return on investments supporting its long-term and non-long-term businesses.
viii Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale of Operating profit for long-term business is based on expected Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its investment returns on financial investments backing shareholder Associate or Joint Venture and policyholder funds over the reporting period, with Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 clarify that for allowance for the corresponding expected movements in transactions between an investor and its associate or joint liabilities.
Variances between actual and expected investment venture, full gains are to be recognised where the assets returns, and the impact of changes in economic assumptions on sold or contributed constitute a business as defined in liabilities, are disclosed separately outside operating profit.
Where the assets sold or non-long-term business, the total investment income, including contributed do not constitute a business, gains and losses realised and unrealised gains, is analysed between that are recognised only to extent of other investors interests in calculated using a longer-term return and short-term associate or joint venture.
The adoption of these fluctuations from that level.
Further details of this analysis and amendments is not expected to have significant the assumptions used are given in notes 8 and 9.
134 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 134 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 IFRS Financial statements Accounting Operating profit also excludes impairment of goodwill, Item Critical accounting assumptions policy Note associates and joint ventures: amortisation and impairment of financial These include broker quotes and other intangibles: amortisation and impairment of acquired instruments and models using both observable and value of in-force business: the profit or loss on disposal and investment unobservable market inputs.
remeasurement of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates: property integration and restructuring costs: and other.
Other items are Impairment of Factors considered when assessing T, V 23,26 financial assets whether there is objective evidence those items that, in the Directors view, are required to be of impairment include industry risk separately disclosed by virtue of their nature or incidence to factors, financial condition, credit enable a full understanding of the Groups financial rating and whether there has been performance.
Details of these items are provided in the relevant a significant or prolonged decline in notes.
fair value Deferred Management use estimation X 28 acquisition costs techniques to determine the C Critical accounting policies and the use of amortisation profile and impairment estimates test by reference to the present Critical accounting policies value of estimated future profits The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to Provisions and When evaluating whether a provision AA 47,52 contingent or a contingent liability should be select accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions liabilities recognised the Group assesses the that affect items reported in the consolidated income statement, likelihood of a constructive or legal consolidated statement of financial position, other primary obligation to settle a past event and statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements.
whether the amount can be reliably The Audit Committee reviews the reasonableness of estimated.
The amount of provision judgements and assumptions applied and the appropriateness is determined based on the Groups estimation of the expenditure of significant accounting policies.
Details of significant issues required to settle the obligation at considered by the Committee in the year are included within the the statement of financial position Audit Committee Report on page 94. date These major areas of judgement on policy application are Pension The Group uses a number of AB 48 summarised below: obligations estimates when calculating its pension obligations, including Item Critical accounting judgement Accounting policy mortality assumptions, discount rates and inflation rates Consolidation Assessment of whether the Group D Deferred income Calculation and recognition of AC 46 controls the underlying entities taxes temporary differences giving rise to including consideration of its decision deferred tax balances includes making authority and the rights the estimates of the extent to which variable returns from the entity future taxable profits are available Insurance and Assessment of the significance of G against which the temporary participating insurance risk transferred to the Group differences can be utilised investment in determining whether a contract contract should be accounted for as insurance liabilities or investment contract D Consolidation principles Financial Classification of investments including T Subsidiaries investments the application of the fair value option Subsidiaries are those entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an investee if and only if the Group has all All estimates are based on managements knowledge of current of the following: facts and circumstances, assumptions based on that knowledge power over the investee, and their predictions of future events and actions.
Actual results exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement may differ from those estimates, possibly significantly.
with the investee, and The table below sets out those items considered particularly the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its susceptible to changes in estimates and assumptions, and the returns.
relevant accounting policy and note disclosures.
The Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in Accounting assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: the Item Critical accounting assumptions policy Note purpose and design of an investee, relevant activities, Measurement of Principal assumptions will include L 40b substantive and protective rights, and voting rights and insurance and those in respect of mortality, investment morbidity, persistency, expense, potential voting rights.
contract valuation interest rates, credit The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee liabilities default allowances on corporate if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one bonds and valuation of guarantees or more of the three elements of control.
Subsidiaries are Acquired value of AVIF is recognised, amortised and O 17 consolidated from the date the Group obtains control and are in-force tested for impairment by reference excluded from consolidation from the date the Group loses business AVIF to the present value of estimated and intangible future profits.
All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised assets intangible assets are recognised and surpluses and deficits on transactions between Group tested for impairment using an companies have been eliminated.
Accounting policies of income approach method.
subsidiaries are aligned on acquisition to ensure consistency Significant estimates include with Group policies.
forecast cash flows and discount The Group is required to use the acquisition method of rates Fair value of Where quoted market prices are not F, T, U 22,26 accounting for business combinations.
Under this method, the financial available, valuation techniques are cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the investments, used to value financial investments, consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair derivative derivatives and investment property.
value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 135 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 135 Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group has the Accounting for the PUTs and PLPs as subsidiaries, joint option to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree ventures, associates or other financial investments depends on either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the whether the Group is deemed to have control or joint control acquirees identifiable net assets.
The excess of the over the PUTs and PLPs shareholdings in the GPs and the terms consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets of of each partnership agreement are considered along with other the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill see accounting factors that determine control, as outlined above.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as Group exerts control over a PUT or a PLP, it has been treated as incurred.
a subsidiary and its results, assets and liabilities have been Transactions with non-controlling interests that lead to consolidated.
Where the partnership is managed by an changes in the ownership interests in a subsidiary but do not agreement such that there is joint control between the parties, result in a loss of control are treated as equity transactions.
notwithstanding that the Groups partnership share in the PLP including its indirect stake via the relevant PUT and GP may be Merger accounting and the merger reserve lower or higher than 50%, such PUTs and PLPs have been Prior to 1 January 2004, the date of first time adoption of IFRS, classified as joint ventures.
Where the Group has significant certain significant business combinations were accounted for influence over the PUT or PLP, as defined in the following using the pooling of interests method or merger accounting, section, the PUT or PLP is classified as an associate.
Where the which treats the merged groups as if they had been combined Group holds non-controlling interests in PLPs, with no throughout the current and comparative accounting periods.
significant influence or control over their associated GPs, the Merger accounting principles for these combinations gave rise relevant investments are carried at fair value through profit or to a merger reserve in the consolidated statement of financial loss within financial investments.
position, being the difference between the nominal value of new shares issued by the Parent Company for the acquisition of Associates and joint ventures the shares of the subsidiary and the subsidiarys own share Associates are entities over which the Group has significant capital and share premium account.
These transactions have not influence.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the been restated, as permitted by the IFRS 1 transitional financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is arrangements.
not control or joint control.
Generally, it is presumed that the The merger reserve is also used where more than 90% of Group has significant influence if it has between 20% and 50% the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration of voting rights.
Joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby includes the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby the Group and other parties that have joint control of the attracting merger relief under the Companies Act 1985 and, arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
from 1 October 2009, the Companies Act 2006.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the Investment vehicles relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties In several countries, the Group has invested in a number of sharing control.
In a number of these, the Groups share of the specialised investment vehicles such as Open-ended Investment underlying assets and liabilities may be greater or less than 50% Companies OEICs and unit trusts.
These invest mainly in equities, but the terms of the relevant agreements make it clear that bonds, cash and cash equivalents, and properties, and distribute control is not exercised.
Such jointly controlled entities are most of their income.
The Groups percentage ownership in these referred to as joint ventures in these financial statements.
vehicles can fluctuate from day to day according to the Groups and Gains on transactions between the Group and its associates third-party participation in them.
When assessing control over and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups investment vehicles, along with the factors determining control interest in the associates and joint ventures.
Losses are also outlined above, the Group considers the scope of its decisioneliminated, unless the transaction provides evidence of an making authority including its ability to direct the relevant activities impairment of the asset transferred between entities.
of the fund and exposure to variability of returns from the Other than investments in investment vehicles which are perspective of an investor in the fund and of the asset manager.
In carried at fair value through profit or loss, investments in addition, the Group assesses rights held by other parties including associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity substantive removal rights that may affect the Groups ability to method of accounting.
Under this method, the cost of the direct the relevant activities and indicate that the Group does not investment in a given associate or joint venture, together with have power.
Where the Group is deemed to control such vehicles, the Groups share of that entitys post-acquisition changes to they are consolidated, with the interests of parties other than Aviva shareholders funds, is included as an asset in the consolidated being classified as liabilities.
These appear as Net asset value statement of financial position.
As explained in accounting attributable to unitholders in the consolidated statement of policy O, the cost includes goodwill identified on acquisition.
The Groups share of their post-acquisition profits or losses is Where the Group does not control such vehicles, and these recognised in the income statement and its share of postinvestments are held by its insurance or investment funds, they acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
are carried at fair value through profit or loss within financial Equity accounting is discontinued when the Group no longer investments in the consolidated statement of financial position, has significant influence or joint control over the investment.
in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture and Measurement.
equals or exceeds its interest in the undertaking, the Group As part of their investment strategy, the UK and certain does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred European and Asian long-term business policyholder funds have obligations or made payments on behalf of the entity.
invested in a number of property limited partnerships PLPs, either directly or via property unit trusts PUTs, through a mix of The Companys investments capital and loans.
The PLPs are managed by general partners In the Companys statement of financial position, subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are stated at their fair values, GPs, in which the long-term business shareholder companies hold equity stakes and which themselves hold nominal stakes in estimated using applicable valuation models underpinned by the Companys market capitalisation.
These investments are the PLPs.
The PUTs are managed by a Group subsidiary.
classified as available for sale AFS financial assets, with 136 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 136 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 IFRS Financial statements changes in their fair value being recognised in other impact on the valuation of financial instruments, the difference comprehensive income and recorded in a separate investment between the fair value at initial recognition and the transaction valuation reserve within equity.
price is not recognised immediately in the income statement, but deferred and recognised in the income statement on an appropriate basis over the life of the instrument but no later E Foreign currency translation than when the valuation is supported wholly by observable Income statements and cash flows of foreign entities are market data or the transaction is closed out or otherwise translated into the Groups presentation currency at average matured.
exchange rates for the year while their statements of financial If an asset or a liability measured at fair value has a bid price position are translated at the year-end exchange rates.
and an ask price, the price within the bid-ask spread that is Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net most representative of fair value in the circumstances is used to investment in foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, measure fair value.
and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised in other comprehensive income and taken to the currency translation G Product classification reserve within equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, such Insurance contracts are defined as those containing significant exchange differences are transferred out of this reserve and are insurance risk if, and only if, an insured event could cause an recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss insurer to make significant additional payments in any scenario, on sale.
The cumulative translation differences were deemed to excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance, at the be zero at the transition date to IFRS.
Such contracts remain insurance Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the contracts until all rights and obligations are extinguished or exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Contracts can be reclassified as insurance contracts after losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and from inception if insurance risk becomes significant.
Any contracts the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in not considered to be insurance contracts under IFRS are foreign currencies, are recognised in the income statement.
Some insurance and Translation differences on debt securities and other investment contracts contain a discretionary participation monetary financial assets measured at fair value and designated feature, which is a contractual right to receive additional as held at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL see benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits.
These are accounting policy T are included in foreign exchange gains and referred to as participating contracts.
losses in the income statement.
For monetary financial assets As noted in accounting policy A, insurance contracts and designated as available for sale AFS, translation differences are participating investment contracts in general continue to be measured and accounted for under existing accounting calculated as if they were carried at amortised cost and so are recognised in the income statement, whilst foreign exchange practices at the later of the date of transition to IFRS grandfathered or the date of the acquisition of the entity, in differences arising from fair value gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income and included in the accordance with IFRS 4.
IFRS accounting for insurance contracts in UK companies was grandfathered at the date of transition to investment valuation reserve within equity.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities which are IFRS and determined in accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British designated as FVTPL, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss, whereas such differences on AFS equities are included in Insurers subsequently withdrawn by the ABI in 2015. the investment valuation reserve.
In certain businesses, the accounting policies or accounting estimates have been changed, as permitted by IFRS 4 and IAS 8 respectively, to remeasure designated insurance liabilities to F Fair value measurement reflect current market interest rates and changes to regulatory Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or capital requirements.
When accounting policies or accounting paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between estimates have been changed, and adjustments to the market participants at the measurement date, regardless of measurement basis have occurred, the financial statements of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using that year will have disclosed the impacts accordingly.
One such another valuation technique.
This presumes that the transaction example is our adoption of Financial Reporting Standard 27 Life takes place in the principal or most advantageous market Assurance FRS 27 which was issued by the UKs Accounting under current market conditions.
Fair value is a market-based Standards Board ASB in December 2004 subsequently measure and in the absence of observable market prices in an withdrawn by the ASB in 2015.
The additional requirements of active market, it is measured using the assumptions that market FRS 27 are detailed in accounting policy L below.
participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
The fair value of a non-financial asset is determined based on its highest and best use from a market participants H Premiums earned perspective.
When using this approach, the Group takes into Premiums on long-term insurance contracts and participating account the assets use that is physically possible, legally investment contracts are recognised as income when receivable, permissible and financially feasible.
except for investment-linked premiums which are accounted for The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument when the corresponding liabilities are recognised.
For single at initial recognition is normally the transaction price i. e. the fair premium business, this is the date from which the policy is value of the consideration given or received.
For regular premium contracts, receivables are circumstances, the fair value at initial recognition may differ recognised at the date when payments are due.
Premiums are from the transaction price.
If the fair value is evidenced by shown before deduction of commission and before any salescomparison with other observable current market transactions based taxes or duties.
Where policies lapse due to non-receipt in the same instrument i. e. without modification or of premiums, then all the related premium income accrued but repackaging, or is based on a valuation technique whose not received from the date they are deemed to have lapsed is variables include only data from observable markets, then the offset against premiums.
difference between the fair value at initial recognition and the General insurance and health premiums written reflect transaction price is recognised as a gain or loss in the income business incepted during the year, and exclude any sales-based statement.
When unobservable market data has a significant taxes or duties.
Unearned premiums are those proportions of Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 137 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 137 Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued the premiums written in a year that relate to periods of risk after unrealised gains and losses in respect of disposals made during the statement of financial position date.
Realised gains or losses on investment property are calculated on either a daily or monthly pro rata basis.
represent the difference between the net disposal proceeds and Premiums collected by intermediaries, but not yet received, are the carrying amount of the property.
assessed based on estimates from underwriting or past experience, and are included in premiums written.
L Insurance and participating investment Deposits collected under investment contracts without a contract liabilities discretionary participation feature non-participating contracts Claims are not accounted for through the income statement, except for Long-term business claims reflect the cost of all claims arising the fee income covered in accounting policy I and the during the year, including claims handling costs, as well as investment income attributable to those contracts, but are policyholder bonuses accrued in anticipation of bonus accounted for directly through the statement of financial declarations.
position as an adjustment to the investment contract liability.
General insurance and health claims incurred include all losses occurring during the year, whether reported or not, I Other investment contract fee revenue related handling costs, a reduction for the value of salvage and Investment contract policyholders are charged fees for policy other recoveries, and any adjustments to claims outstanding administration, investment management, surrenders or other from previous years.
The fees may be for fixed amounts or vary Claims handling costs include internal and external costs with the amounts being managed, and will generally be incurred in connection with the negotiation and settlement of charged as an adjustment to the policyholders balance.
Internal costs include all direct expenses of the claims fees are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are department and any part of the general administrative costs collected unless they relate to services to be provided in future directly attributable to the claims function.
periods, in which case they are deferred and recognised as the service is provided.
Long-term business provisions Initiation and other front-end fees fees that are assessed Under current IFRS requirements, insurance and participating against the policyholder balance as consideration for origination investment contract liabilities are measured using accounting of the contract are charged on some non-participating policies consistent with those adopted previously under existing investment and investment fund management contracts.
Where accounting practices, with the exception of liabilities remeasured the investment contract is recorded at amortised cost, these fees to reflect current market interest rates to be consistent with the are deferred and recognised over the expected term of the value of the backing assets, and those relating to UK with-profit policy by an adjustment to the effective yield.
Where the and non-profit contracts.
investment contract is measured at fair value, the front-end fees The long-term business provisions are calculated separately that relate to the provision of investment management services for each life operation, based either on local regulatory are deferred and recognised as the services are provided.
requirements or existing local GAAP at the later of the date of transition to IFRS or the date of the acquisition of the entity : and actuarial principles consistent with those applied in each J Other fee and commission income local market.
Each calculation represents a determination within Other fee and commission income consists primarily of fund a range of possible outcomes, where the assumptions used in management fees, distribution fees from mutual funds, the calculations depend on the circumstances prevailing in each commissions on reinsurance ceded, commission revenue from life operation.
The principal assumptions are disclosed in note the sale of mutual fund shares and transfer agent fees for 40 b.
For the UK with-profit funds, FRS 27 requires liabilities to shareholder record keeping.
Reinsurance commissions receivable be calculated on the realistic basis as set out by the UKs are deferred in the same way as acquisition costs, as described Prudential Regulation Authority PRA, adjusted to remove the in accounting policy X.
All other fee and commission income is shareholders share of future bonuses.
For UK non-profit recognised as the services are provided.
insurance contracts, the Group applies PRA regulatory requirements, adjusted to remove certain regulatory reserves K Net investment income and margins in assumptions, notably for annuity business.
Investment income consists of dividends, interest and rents receivable for the year, movements in amortised cost on debt Unallocated divisible surplus securities, realised gains and losses, and unrealised gains and In certain participating long-term insurance and investment losses on fair value through profit or loss investments as business, the nature of the policy benefits is such that the defined in accounting policy T. Dividends on equity securities division between shareholder reserves and policyholder liabilities are recorded as revenue on the ex-dividend date.
Amounts whose allocation to either policyholders income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the or shareholders has not been determined by the end of the effective yield on the investment.
It includes the interest rate financial year are held within liabilities as an unallocated divisible differential on forward foreign exchange contracts.
income is recognised on an accruals basis, and is recognised on If the aggregate carrying value of liabilities for a particular a straight line basis unless there is compelling evidence that participating business fund is in excess of the aggregate carrying benefits do not accrue evenly over the period of the lease.
value of its assets, then the difference is held as a negative A gain or loss on a financial investment is only realised on unallocated divisible surplus balance, subject to recoverability disposal or transfer, and is the difference between the proceeds from margins in that funds participating business.
Any excess of received, net of transaction costs, and its original cost or this difference over the recoverable amount is charged to net amortised cost, as appropriate.
income in the reporting period.
Unrealised gains and losses, arising on investments which have not been derecognised as a result of disposal or transfer, Embedded derivatives represent the difference between the carrying value at the year Embedded derivatives that meet the definition of an insurance end and the carrying value at the previous year end or purchase contract or correspond to options to surrender insurance value during the year, less the reversal of previously recognised contracts for a set amount or based on a fixed amount and an 138 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 138 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 IFRS Financial statements interest rate are not separately measured.
All other embedded established where there is a present obligation legal or derivatives are separated and measured at fair value if they are constructive as a result of a past event.
Such amounts are not not considered closely related to the host insurance contract or included in insurance liabilities but are included under do not meet the definition of an insurance contract.
Fair value Provisions in the statement of financial position.
reflects own credit risk to the extent the embedded derivative is not fully collateralised.
M Non-participating investment contract liabilities Liability adequacy Claims At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether the For non-participating investment contracts with an account recognised long-term business provisions are adequate, using balance, claims reflect the excess of amounts paid over the current estimates of future cash flows.
If that assessment shows account balance released.
that the carrying amount of the liabilities less related assets is insufficient in light of the estimated future cash flows, the Contract liabilities deficiency is recognised in the income statement by setting up Deposits collected under non-participating investment contracts an additional provision in the statement of financial position.
are not accounted for through the income statement, except for the investment income attributable to those contracts, but are General insurance and health provisions accounted for directly through the statement of financial Outstanding claims provisions position as an adjustment to the investment contract liability.
General insurance and health outstanding claims provisions are The majority of the Groups contracts classified as nonbased on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but participating investment contracts are unit-linked contracts and not settled at the statement of financial position date, whether are measured at fair value.
Certain liabilities for non-linked nonreported or not, together with related claims handling costs.
participating contracts are measured at amortised cost.
Significant delays are experienced in the notification and The liabilitys fair value is determined in accordance with IAS settlement of certain types of general insurance claims, 39, using a valuation technique to provide a reliable estimate of particularly in respect of liability business, including the amount for which the liability could be transferred in an environmental and pollution exposures, the ultimate cost of orderly transaction between market participants at the which cannot be known with certainty at the statement of measurement date, subject to a minimum equal to the financial position date.
As such, booked claim provisions for surrender value.
For unit-linked contracts, the fair value liability general insurance and health insurance are based on the best is equal to the current unit fund value, including any unfunded estimate of the cost of future claim payments plus an explicit units.
In addition, if required, non-unit reserves are held based allowance for risk and uncertainty.
Any estimate represents a on a discounted cash flow analysis.
For non-linked contracts, the determination within a range of possible outcomes.
Further fair value liability is based on a discounted cash flow analysis, details of estimation techniques are given in note 40 c. with allowance for risk calibrated to match the market price for Provisions for latent claims are discounted, using rates based risk.
on the relevant swap curve, in the relevant currency at the Amortised cost is calculated as the fair value of reporting date, having regard to the expected settlement dates consideration received at the date of initial recognition, less the of the claims.
The discount rate is set at the start of the net effect of payments such as transaction costs and front-end accounting period with any change in rates between the start fees, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the and end of the accounting period being reflected below effective interest rate method of any difference between that operating profit as an economic assumption change.
The range initial amount and the maturity value, and less any write-down of discount rates used is described in note 40 c ii.
The effective interest rate is the one claims provisions are valued net of an allowance for expected that equates the discounted cash payments to the initial future recoveries.
Recoveries include non-insurance assets that amount.
At each reporting date, the amortised cost liability is have been acquired by exercising rights to salvage and determined as the value of future best estimate cash flows subrogation under the terms of insurance contracts.
discounted at the effective interest rate.
Provision for unearned premiums N Reinsurance The proportion of written premiums, gross of commission The Group assumes and cedes reinsurance in the normal course payable to intermediaries, attributable to subsequent periods is of business, with retention limits varying by line of business.
deferred as a provision for unearned premiums.
The change in Premiums on reinsurance assumed are recognised as revenue in this provision is taken to the income statement as recognition of the same manner as they would be if the reinsurance were revenue over the period of risk.
considered direct business, taking into account the product classification of the reinsured business.
The cost of reinsurance Liability adequacy related to long-duration contracts is accounted for over the life At each reporting date, the Group reviews its unexpired risks of the underlying reinsured policies, using assumptions and carries out a liability adequacy test for any overall excess of consistent with those used to account for these policies.
expected claims and deferred acquisition costs over unearned Where general insurance liabilities are discounted, any premiums, using the current estimates of future cash flows corresponding reinsurance assets are also discounted using under its contracts after taking account of the investment return consistent assumptions.
expected to arise on assets relating to the relevant general Gains or losses on buying retroactive reinsurance are business provisions.
If these estimates show that the carrying recognised in the income statement immediately at the date of amount of its insurance liabilities less related deferred purchase and are not amortised.
Premiums ceded and claims acquisition costs is insufficient in light of the estimated future reimbursed are presented on a gross basis in the consolidated cash flows, the deficiency is recognised in the income statement income statement and statement of financial position as by setting up a provision in the statement of financial position.
Reinsurance assets primarily include balances due from both Other assessments and levies insurance and reinsurance companies for ceded insurance and The Group is subject to various periodic insurance-related assessments or guarantee fund levies.
Related provisions are investment contract liabilities.
This includes balances in respect Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 139 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 139 Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued of investment contracts which are legally reinsurance contracts their useful lives, which range from three to 30 years, using the but do not meet the definition of a reinsurance contract under straight-line method.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a The amortisation charge for the year is included in the manner consistent with the underlying contract liabilities, income statement under Other expenses.
For intangibles with outstanding claims provisions or settled claims associated with finite lives, impairment charges will be recognised in the income the reinsured policies and in accordance with the relevant statement where evidence of such impairment is observed.
Intangibles with indefinite lives are subject to regular Reinsurance of non-participating investment contracts and impairment testing, as described below.
reinsurance contracts that principally transfer financial risk are Impairment testing accounted for directly through the statement of financial For impairment testing, goodwill and intangible assets with position.
A deposit asset or liability is recognised, based on the indefinite useful lives have been allocated to cash-generating consideration paid or received less any explicitly identified units.
The carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets premiums or fees to be retained by the reinsured.
These deposit with indefinite useful lives is reviewed at least annually or when assets or liabilities are shown within reinsurance assets in the circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over consolidated statement of financial position.
Goodwill and indefinite life intangibles are written If a reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces the down for impairment where the recoverable amount is carrying amount accordingly and recognises that impairment insufficient to support its carrying value.
Further details on loss in the income statement.
A reinsurance asset is impaired if goodwill allocation and impairment testing are given in note 16. there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred Any impairments are charged as expenses in the income after initial recognition of the reinsurance asset, that the Group statement.
may not receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract, and the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
P Property and equipment Owner-occupied properties are carried at their revalued amounts, and movements are recognised in other O Goodwill, AVIF and intangible assets Goodwill comprehensive income and taken to a separate reserve within Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over equity.
When such properties are sold, the accumulated the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the revaluation surpluses are transferred from this reserve to acquired subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of retained earnings.
These properties are depreciated down to acquisition.
Goodwill arising on the Groups investments in their estimated residual values over their useful lives.
All other subsidiaries is shown as a separate asset, whilst that on items classed as property and equipment within the statement associates and joint ventures is included within the carrying of financial position are carried at historical cost less value of those investments.
Goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 the date Investment properties under construction are included of transition to IFRS is carried at its book value original cost less within property and equipment until completion, and are stated cumulative amortisation on that date, less any impairment at cost less any provision for impairment in their values until subsequently incurred.
Goodwill arising before 1 January 1998 construction is completed or fair value becomes reliably was eliminated against reserves and has not been reinstated.
Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method to Acquired value of in-force business AVIF write down the cost of other assets to their residual values over The present value of future profits on a portfolio of long-term their estimated useful lives as follows: insurance and investment contracts, acquired either directly or through the purchase of a subsidiary, is recognised as an asset.
Properties under construction No depreciation If the AVIF results from the acquisition of an investment in a Owner-occupied properties, and 25 years joint venture or an associate, it is held within the carrying related mechanical and electrical amount of that investment.
In all cases, the AVIF is amortised equipment over the useful lifetime of the related contracts in the portfolio Motor vehicles Three years, or lease term on a systematic basis.
The rate of amortisation is chosen by up to useful life if longer considering the profile of the additional value of in-force Computer equipment Three to five years business acquired and the expected depletion in its value.
Other assets Three to five years Non-participating investment contract AVIF is reviewed for evidence of impairment, consistent with reviews conducted for The assets residual values, useful lives and method of other finite life intangible assets.
Insurance and participating depreciation are reviewed regularly, and at least at each investment contract AVIF is reviewed for impairment at each financial year end, and adjusted if appropriate.
Where the reporting date as part of the liability adequacy requirements of carrying amount of an asset is greater than its estimated IFRS 4 see accounting policy L. AVIF is reviewed for evidence of recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its impairment and impairment tested at product portfolio level by recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposal of property reference to a projection of future profits arising from the and equipment are determined by reference to their carrying portfolio.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition and Intangible assets construction of property and equipment are capitalised.
All Intangible assets consist primarily of contractual relationships repair and maintenance costs are charged to the income such as access to distribution networks, customer lists and statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The economic lives of these are determined by The cost of major renovations is included in the carrying amount considering relevant factors such as usage of the asset, typical of the asset when it is probable that future economic benefits in product life cycles, potential obsolescence, maintenance costs, excess of the most recently assessed standard of performance of the stability of the industry, competitive position and the period the existing asset will flow to the Group and the renovation of control over the assets.
These intangibles are amortised over 140 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 140 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 IFRS Financial statements replaces an identifiable part of the asset.
Major renovations are accounting policy U below.
The AFS category is used where the depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset.
relevant long-term business liability including shareholders funds is passively managed, as well as in certain fund management and non-insurance operations.
Q Investment property Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the Investment property is held for long-term rental yields and is not trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to occupied by the Group.
Completed investment property is purchase or sell the assets, at their fair values.
Debt securities stated at its fair value.
Changes in fair values are recorded in the are initially recorded at their fair value, which is taken to be income statement in net investment income.
amortised cost, with amortisation credited or charged to the As described in accounting policy P above, investment income statement.
Investments classified as trading, other than properties under construction are included within property and trading and AFS, are subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes equipment, and are stated at cost less any impairment in their in the fair value of trading and other than trading investments values until construction is completed or fair value becomes are included in the income statement in the period in which reliably measurable.
Changes in the fair value of securities classified as AFS are R Impairment of non-financial assets recognised in other comprehensive income and recorded in a Property and equipment and other non-financial assets are separate investment valuation reserve within equity.
When reviewed for impairment losses whenever events or changes in securities classified as AFS are sold or impaired, the accumulated circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fair value adjustments are transferred out of the investment recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income valuation reserve to the income statement with a corresponding statement for the amount by which the carrying amount of the movement through other comprehensive income.
asset exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of an assets fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
For the Impairment purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the The Group reviews the carrying value of its AFS investments on lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash a regular basis.
If the carrying value of an AFS investment is flows.
Non-financial assets except goodwill which have suffered greater than the recoverable amount, the carrying value is an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the reduced through a charge to the income statement in the impairment at each reporting date.
The following policies are used to determine the level of any impairment, some of which involve S Derecognition and offset of financial assets considerable judgement: and financial liabilities A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset AFS debt securities: An AFS debt security is impaired if there is or part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised objective evidence that a loss event has occurred which has where: impaired the expected cash flows, i. e. where all amounts due The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired.
according to the contractual terms of the security are not The Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the considered collectible.
An impairment charge, measured as the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full difference between the securitys fair value and amortised cost, without material delay to a third party under a pass-through is recognised when the issuer is known to be either in default or arrangement.
Determining when an issuer is in financial The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from difficulty requires the use of judgement, and we consider a the asset and has either transferred substantially all the risks number of factors including industry risk factors, financial and rewards of the asset, or has neither transferred nor condition, liquidity position and near-term prospects of the retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, issuer, credit rating declines and a breach of contract.
A decline but has transferred control of the asset.
in fair value below amortised cost due to changes in risk-free interest rates does not necessarily represent objective evidence A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under of a loss event.
the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
For securities identified as being impaired, the cumulative Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount unrealised loss previously recognised within the investment reported in the statement of financial position when there is a valuation reserve is transferred to realised losses for the year, currently enforceable legal right to set off the recognised with a corresponding movement through other comprehensive amounts and there is the ability and intention to settle on a net income.
Any subsequent increase in fair value of these impaired basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
securities is recognised in other comprehensive income and recorded in the investment valuation reserve unless this increase T Financial investments represents a decrease in the impairment loss that can be The Group classifies its investments as either FVTPL or AFS.
The objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment classification depends on the purpose for which the investments loss was recognised in the income statement.
In such an event, were acquired, and is determined by local management at initial the reversal of the impairment loss is recognised as a gain in the recognition.
The FVTPL category has two subcategories those income statement.
that meet the definition as being held for trading and those the Group chooses to designate as FVTPL referred to in this AFS equity securities: An AFS equity security is considered accounting policy as other than trading upon initial impaired if there is objective evidence that the cost may not be recognition.
In addition to qualitative impairment criteria, such In general, the other than trading category is used as, in evidence includes a significant or prolonged decline in fair value most cases, the Groups investment or risk management below cost.
Unless there is evidence to the contrary, an equity strategy is to manage its financial investments on a fair value security is considered impaired if the decline in fair value relative basis.
Debt securities and equity securities, which the Group to cost has been either at least 20% for a continuous six-month acquires with the intention to resell in the short-term, are period or more than 40% at the end of the reporting period, or classified as trading, as are non-hedge derivatives see been in an unrealised loss position for a continuous period of Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 141 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 141 Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued more than 12 months at the end of the reporting period.
We payments are netted against each other, with the difference also review our largest equity holdings for evidence of between the fixed and floating rate interest payments paid by impairment, as well as individual equity holdings in industry one party.
Currency swaps, in their simplest form, are sectors known to be in difficulty.
Where there is objective contractual agreements that involve the exchange of both evidence that impairment exists, the security is written down periodic and final amounts in two different currencies.
Both regardless of the size of the unrealised loss.
types of swap contracts may include the net exchange of For securities identified as being impaired, the cumulative principal.
Exposure to gain or loss on these contracts will unrealised loss previously recognised within the investment increase or decrease over their respective lives as a function of valuation reserve is transferred to realised losses for the year maturity dates, interest and foreign exchange rates, and the with a corresponding movement through other comprehensive timing of payments.
Any subsequent increase in fair value of these impaired Interest rate futures, forwards and options contracts securities is recognised in other comprehensive income and Interest rate futures are exchange-traded instruments and recorded in the investment valuation reserve.
represent commitments to purchase or sell a designated security Reversals of impairments on any of these assets are only or money market instrument at a specified future date and recognised where the decrease in the impairment can be price.
Interest rate forward agreements are OTC contracts in objectively related to an event occurring after the write-down which two parties agree on an interest rate and other terms that such as an improvement in the debtors credit rating, and are will become a reference point in determining, in concert with an not recognised in respect of equity instruments.
agreed notional principal amount, a net payment to be made by one party to the other, depending upon what rate prevails at a U Derivative financial instruments and future point in time.
Interest rate options, which consist hedging primarily of caps and floors, are interest rate protection Derivative financial instruments include foreign exchange instruments that involve the potential obligation of the seller to contracts, interest rate futures, currency and interest rate swaps, pay the buyer an interest rate differential in exchange for a currency and interest rate options both written and purchased premium paid by the buyer.
This differential represents the and other financial instruments that derive their value mainly difference between current rate and an agreed rate applied to a from underlying interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit or notional amount.
Exposure to gain or loss on all interest rate equity indices, commodity values or equity instruments.
contracts will increase or decrease over their respective lives as All derivatives are initially recognised in the statement of interest rates fluctuate.
Certain contracts, known as swaptions, financial position at their fair value, which usually represents contain features which can act as swaps or options.
They are subsequently remeasured at their fair value, with the method of recognising movements in this value Foreign exchange contracts depending on whether they are designated as hedging Foreign exchange contracts, which include spot, forward and instruments and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Fair futures contracts, represent agreements to exchange the values are obtained from quoted market prices or, if these are currency of one country for the currency of another country at not available, by using valuation techniques such as discounted an agreed price and settlement date.
Foreign exchange option cash flow models or option pricing models.
All derivatives are contracts are similar to interest rate option contracts, except carried as assets when the fair values are positive and as that they are based on currencies, rather than interest rates.
liabilities when the fair values are negative.
Premiums paid for derivatives are recorded as an asset on the statement of Derivative instruments for hedging financial position at the date of purchase, representing their fair On the date a derivative contract is entered into, the Group value at that date.
designates certain derivatives as either: Derivative contracts may be traded on an exchange or overi a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability the-counter OTC.
Exchange-traded derivatives are standardised fair value hedge : and include certain futures and option contracts.
OTC derivative ii a hedge of a future cash flow attributable to a recognised contracts are individually negotiated between contracting asset or liability, a highly probable forecast transaction or a parties and include forwards, swaps, caps and floors.
Derivatives firm commitment cash flow hedge : or are subject to various risks including market, liquidity and credit iii a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net risk, similar to those related to the underlying financial investment hedge.
Many OTC transactions are contracted and documented under International Swaps and Derivatives Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this way, Association ISDA master agreements or their equivalent, which provided certain criteria are met.
At the inception of the are designed to provide legally enforceable set-off in the event transaction, the Group documents the relationship between the of default, reducing the Groups exposure to credit risk.
hedging instrument and the hedged item, as well as the risk The notional or contractual amounts associated with management objective and the strategy for undertaking the derivative financial instruments are not recorded as assets or hedge transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment of liabilities on the statement of financial position as they do not whether the hedge is expected to be, and has been, highly represent the fair value of these transactions.
These amounts effective in offsetting the risk in the hedged item, both at are disclosed in note 58 b. inception and on an ongoing basis.
The Group has collateral agreements in place between the Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated individual Group entities and relevant counterparties.
and qualify as net investment or cash flow hedges, and that prove Accounting policy W covers collateral, both received and to be highly effective in relation to the hedged risk, are pledged, in respect of these derivatives.
recognised in other comprehensive income and a separate reserve within equity.
Gains and losses accumulated in this reserve are Interest rate and currency swaps included in the income statement on disposal of the relevant Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements between two investment or occurrence of the cash flow as appropriate.
parties to exchange fixed rate and floating rate interest by Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated means of periodic payments, calculated on a specified notional and qualify as fair value hedges are recognised in the income amount and defined interest rates.
Most interest rate swap 142 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 142 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 IFRS Financial statements statement.
The gain or loss on the hedged item that is associated derivative balances are shown net.
Non-cash attributable to the hedged risk is recognised in the income collateral received is not recognised in the statement of financial statement.
This applies even if the hedged item is an available position unless the Group either a sells or repledges these for sale financial asset or is measured at amortised cost.
If a assets in the absence of default, at which point the obligation to hedging relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge return this collateral is recognised as a liability: or b the accounting, the cumulative adjustment made to the carrying counterparty to the arrangement defaults, at which point the amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income collateral is seized and recognised as an asset.
statement, based on a recalculated effective interest rate over Collateral pledged in the form of cash, which is legally the residual period to maturity.
In cases where the hedged item segregated from the Group, is derecognised from the statement has been derecognised, the cumulative adjustment is released to of financial position with a corresponding receivable recognised the income statement immediately.
Non-cash collateral pledged is not derecognised For a variety of reasons, certain derivative transactions, while from the statement of financial position unless the Group providing effective economic hedges under the Groups risk defaults on its obligations under the relevant agreement, and management positions, do not qualify for hedge accounting therefore continues to be recognised in the statement of under the specific IFRS rules and are therefore treated as financial position within the appropriate asset classification.
Their fair value gains and losses are recognised immediately in net investment income.
X Deferred acquisition costs and other assets Costs relating to the acquisition of new business for insurance V Loans and participating investment contracts are deferred in line with Loans with fixed maturities, including policyholder loans, existing local accounting practices, to the extent that they are mortgage loans on investment property, securitised mortgages expected to be recovered out of future margins in revenues on and collateral loans, are recognised when cash is advanced to these contracts.
For participating contracts written in the UK, borrowers.
Certain loans are carried at their unpaid principal acquisition costs are generally not deferred as the liability for balances and adjusted for amortisation of premium or discount, these contracts is calculated in accordance with the PRAs non-refundable loan fees and related direct costs.
These realistic capital regime and FRS 27 see accounting policy L. For amounts are deferred and amortised over the life of the loan as non-participating investment and investment fund management an adjustment to loan yield using the effective interest rate contracts, incremental acquisition costs and sales enhancements method.
Loans with indefinite future lives are carried at unpaid that are directly attributable to securing an investment principal balances or cost.
management service are also deferred.
However, for the majority of mortgage loans, the Group has Where such business is reinsured, an appropriate proportion taken advantage of the fair value option under IAS 39 to present of the deferred acquisition costs is attributed to the reinsurer, the mortgages, associated borrowings and derivative financial and is treated as a separate liability.
instruments at fair value, since they are managed as a portfolio on Long-term business deferred acquisition costs are amortised a fair value basis.
This presentation provides more relevant systematically over a period no longer than that in which they information and eliminates any accounting mismatch that would are expected to be recoverable out of these future margins.
otherwise arise from using different measurement bases for these Deferrable acquisition costs for non-participating investment three items.
The fair values of these mortgages are estimated and investment fund management contracts are amortised over using discounted cash flow models, based on a risk-adjusted the period in which the service is provided.
General insurance discount rate which reflects the risks associated with these and health deferred acquisition costs are amortised over the products.
They are revalued at each period end, with movements period in which the related revenues are earned.
The reinsurers in their fair values being taken to the income statement.
share of deferred acquisition costs is amortised in the same At each reporting date, we review loans carried at amortised manner as the underlying asset.
cost for objective evidence that they are impaired and Deferred acquisition costs are reviewed by category of uncollectable, either at the level of an individual security or business at the end of each reporting period and are written-off collectively within a group of loans with similar credit risk where they are no longer considered to be recoverable.
To the extent that a loan is uncollectable, it is Other receivables and payables are initially recognised at written down as impaired to its recoverable amount, measured cost, being fair value.
Subsequent to initial measurement they as the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at are measured at amortised cost.
the original effective interest rate of the loan, taking into account the fair value of the underlying collateral through an Y Statement of cash flows impairment provision account.
Subsequent recoveries in excess Cash and cash equivalents of the loans written-down carrying value are credited to the Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, income statement.
deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other shortterm highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an W Collateral insignificant risk of change in value.
Such investments are those The Group receives and pledges collateral in the form of cash or with less than three months maturity from the date of non-cash assets in respect of stock lending transactions, certain acquisition, or which are redeemable on demand with only an derivative contracts and loans, in order to reduce the credit risk insignificant change in their fair values.
Collateral is also pledged as security for For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and bank letters of credit.
The amount and type of collateral cash equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which are required depends on an assessment of the credit risk of the included in payables and other financial liabilities on the counterparty.
Collateral received in the form of cash, which is not legally segregated from the Group, is recognised as an asset in the Operating cash flows statement of financial position with a corresponding liability for Purchases and sales of investment property, loans and financial the repayment in financial liabilities note 59.
However, where investments are included within operating cash flows as the the Group has a currently enforceable legal right of set-off and purchases are funded from cash flows associated with the the ability and intent to net settle, the collateral liability and Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 143 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 143 Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued origination of insurance and investment contracts, net of obligation is measured as the present value of the estimated payments of related benefits and claims.
future cash outflows, using a discount rate based on market yields for high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have Z Leases terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related Leases, where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of pension liability.
The resultant net surplus or deficit recognised ownership is retained by the lessor, are classified as operating as an asset or liability on the statement of financial position is leases.
Where the Group is the lessee, payments made under the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets.
are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis If the fair value of plan assets exceeds the present value of over the term of the relevant leases.
the defined benefit obligation, the resultant asset is limited to Where the Group is the lessor, lease income from operating the asset ceiling defined as present value of economic benefits leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line available in the form of future refunds from the plan or basis over the lease term.
reductions in contributions to the plan.
In order to calculate the When assets are subject to finance leases, the present value present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to of the lease payments, together with any unguaranteed residual any minimum funding requirements that apply to any plan in value, is recognised as a receivable.
The Group has not entered the Group.
into any material finance lease arrangements either as lessor Remeasurements of defined benefit plans comprise actuarial or lessee.
gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, the return on plan assets AA Provisions and contingent liabilities excluding net interest and the effect of the asset ceiling if Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or any.
The Group recognises remeasurements immediately in constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more other comprehensive income and does not reclassify them to probable than not that an outflow of resources embodying the income statement in subsequent periods.
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and Service costs comprising current service costs, past service a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be costs, gains and losses on curtailments and net interest made.
Restructuring provisions include lease termination expense income are charged or credited to the income penalties and employee termination payments.
only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, Past service costs are recognised at the earlier of the date which are those that are necessarily entailed by the the plan amendment or curtailment occurs or when related restructuring: and not associated with the ongoing activities of restructuring costs are recognised.
The amount recorded as a provision is the best The Group determines the net interest expense income on estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present the net defined benefit liability asset for the period by applying obligation at the balance sheet date.
Where the effect of the the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit time value of money is material, the provision is the present obligation at the beginning of the year to the net defined value of the expected expenditure.
Provisions are not recognised benefit liability asset.
Net interest expense is charged to for future operating losses.
finance costs, whereas, net interest income is credited to Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for investment income.
example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions recognised as a separate asset but only when the to publicly or privately administered pension plans.
Once the reimbursement is virtually certain.
contributions have been paid, the Group, as employer, has no The Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts when further payment obligations.
The Groups contributions are the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are less than charged to the income statement in the year to which they the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the relate and are included in staff costs.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed if there is a possible future obligation as a result of a past event, or if there is a present Equity compensation plans obligation as a result of a past event but either a payment is not The Group offers share award and option plans over the probable or the amount cannot be reasonably estimated.
Companys ordinary shares for certain employees, including a Save As You Earn plan SAYE plan, details of which are given in AB Employee benefits the Directors Remuneration Report and in note 31.
Annual leave The Group accounts for options and awards under equity Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised when compensation plans, which were granted after 7 November they accrue to employees.
A provision is made for the estimated 2002, until such time as they are fully vested, using the fair liability for annual leave as a result of services rendered by value based method of accounting the fair value method.
employees up to the statement of financial position date.
Under this method, the cost of providing equity compensation plans is based on the fair value of the share awards or option Pension obligations plans at date of grant, which is recognised in the income The Group operates a number of pension schemes, whose statement over the expected vesting period of the related members receive benefits on either a defined benefit or defined employees and credited to the equity compensation reserve, contribution basis.
Under a defined contribution plan, the part of shareholders funds.
In certain jurisdictions, awards must Groups legal or constructive obligation is limited to the amount be settled in cash instead of shares, and the credit is taken to it agrees to contribute to a fund and there is no obligation to liabilities rather than reserves.
The fair value of these cashpay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient settled awards is recalculated each year, with the income assets to pay benefits.
A defined benefit pension plan is a statement charge and liability being adjusted accordingly.
pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan and typically Shares purchased by employee share trusts to fund these defines the amount of pension benefit that an employee will awards are shown as deduction from shareholders equity at receive on retirement.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The pension 144 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 144 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 IFRS Financial statements When the options are exercised and new shares are issued, and shareholder tax is allocated to policyholder tax.
The Group the proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited has decided to show separately the amounts of policyholder tax to share capital par value and the balance to share premium.
to provide a meaningful measure of the tax the Group pays on its Where the shares are already held by employee trusts, the net profit.
In the pro forma reconciliations, the operating profit has proceeds are credited against the cost of these shares, with the been calculated after charging policyholder tax.
difference between cost and proceeds being taken to retained earnings.
In both cases, the relevant amount in the equity AD Borrowings compensation reserve is then credited to retained earnings.
Borrowings are classified as being for either core structural or operational purposes.
They are recognised initially at their issue AC Income taxes proceeds less transaction costs incurred.
Subsequently, most The current tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the borrowings are stated at amortised cost, and any difference year, after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Tax, between net proceeds and the redemption value is recognised including tax relief for losses if applicable, is allocated over in the income statement over the period of the borrowings profits before taxation and amounts charged or credited to using the effective interest rate method.
All borrowing costs are components of other comprehensive income and equity, as expensed as they are incurred except where they are directly appropriate.
attributable to the acquisition or construction of property and Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken equipment as described in accounting policy P. for deferred tax assets, using the liability method, on all material Where loan notes have been issued in connection with temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and certain securitised mortgage loans, the Group has taken liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated advantage of the fair value option under IAS 39 to present the financial statements.
mortgages, associated liabilities and derivative financial The principal temporary differences arise from depreciation instruments at fair value, since they are managed as a portfolio of property and equipment, revaluation of certain financial on a fair value basis.
This presentation provides more relevant assets and liabilities including derivative contracts, technical information and eliminates any accounting mismatch which provisions and other insurance items, provisions for pensions would otherwise arise from using different measurement bases and other post-retirement benefits and tax losses carried for these three items.
forward: and, in relation to acquisitions, on the difference between the fair values of the net assets acquired and their tax AE Share capital and treasury shares base.
The rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Equity instruments statement of financial position date are used to value the An equity instrument is a contract that evidences a residual deferred tax assets and liabilities.
interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all its liabilities.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is Accordingly, a financial instrument is treated as equity if: probable that future taxable profit will be available against i there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or other which the temporary differences can be utilised.
In countries financial assets or to exchange financial assets or liabilities where there is a history of tax losses, deferred tax assets are on terms that may be unfavourable: and only recognised in excess of deferred tax liabilities if there is ii the instrument is a non-derivative that contains no convincing evidence that future profits will be available.
contractual obligation to deliver a variable number of shares Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising or is a derivative that will be settled only by the Group from investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other assets for a except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary fixed number of the Groups own equity instruments.
difference can be controlled and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Share issue costs Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of Deferred taxes are not provided in respect of temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, or new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds of the issue and disclosed where material.
from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and affects neither Dividends accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the Interim dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in transaction.
the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends on these Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised in shares are recognised when they have been approved by other comprehensive income and directly in equity are similarly shareholders.
Dividends on preference shares are recognised in recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity the period in which they are declared and appropriately respectively.
Deferred tax related to fair value re-measurement approved.
of available for sale investments, pensions and other postretirement obligations and other amounts charged or credited Treasury shares directly to other comprehensive income is recognised in the Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Companys statement of financial position as a deferred tax asset or liability.
share capital or obtain rights to purchase its share capital, the Current tax on interest paid on direct capital instruments and consideration paid including any attributable transaction costs tier 1 notes is credited directly in equity.
net of income taxes is shown as a deduction from total In addition to paying tax on shareholders profits shareholder shareholders equity.
Gains and losses on own shares are tax, the Groups life businesses in the UK, Ireland and Singapore charged or credited to the treasury share account in equity.
pay tax on policyholders investment returns policyholder tax on certain products at policyholder tax rates.
The incremental tax AF Fiduciary activities borne by the Group represents income tax on policyholders investment return.
In jurisdictions where policyholder tax is Assets and income arising from fiduciary activities, together with related undertakings to return such assets to customers, are applicable, the total tax charge in the income statement is allocated between shareholder tax and policyholder tax.
The excluded from these financial statements where the Group has no contractual rights in the assets and acts in a fiduciary shareholder tax is the corporate tax charge calculated on shareholder profit.
The difference between the total tax charge capacity such as nominee, trustee or agent.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 145 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 145 Accounting policies continued Accounting policies continued AG Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income available to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the weighted average number of ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held as Treasury shares.
Earnings per share has also been calculated on the adjusted operating profit before impairment of goodwill and other adjusting items, after tax, attributable to ordinary shareholders, as the directors believe this figure provides a better indication of operating performance.
Details are given in note 14.
For the diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as convertible debt and share options granted to employees.
Potential or contingent share issuances are treated as dilutive when their conversion to shares would decrease net earnings per share.
AH Operations held for sale Assets and liabilities held for disposal as part of operations which are held for sale are shown separately in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Operations held for sale are recorded at the lower of their carrying amount and their fair value less the estimated selling costs.
146 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 146 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015
