Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Securitised mortgages and related assets The Group, in its UK Life business has loans receivable, secured by mortgages, which have then been securitised through nonrecourse borrowings.
This note gives details of the relevant transactions.
a Description of current arrangements In a UK long-term business subsidiary, Aviva Equity Release UK Limited AER, the beneficial interest in certain portfolios of lifetime mortgages has been transferred to five special purpose securitisation companies the ERF companies, in return for initial consideration and, at later dates, deferred consideration.
The deferred consideration represents receipts accrued within the ERF companies after meeting all their obligations to the note holders, loan providers and other third parties in the priority of payments.
The purchases of the mortgages were funded by the issue of fixed and floating rate notes by the ERF companies.
All the shares in the ERF companies are held by independent companies, whose shares are held on trust.
Although AER does not own, directly or indirectly, any of the share capital of the ERF companies or their parent companies, it has control of the securitisation companies, and they have therefore been treated as subsidiaries in the consolidated financial statements.
AER has no right to repurchase the benefit of any of the securitised mortgage loans, other than in certain circumstances where AER is in breach of warranty or loans are substituted in order to effect a further advance.
AER has purchased subordinated notes and granted subordinated loans to some of the ERF companies.
In addition, Group companies have invested in loan notes issued by the ERF companies.
These have been eliminated on consolidation through offset against the borrowings of the ERF companies in the consolidated statement of financial position.
In all of the above transactions, the Company and its subsidiaries are not obliged to support any losses that may be suffered by the note holders and do not intend to provide such support.
Additionally, the notes were issued on the basis that note holders are only entitled to obtain payment, of both principal and interest, to the extent that the available resources of the respective special purpose securitisation companies, including funds due from customers in respect of the securitised loans, are sufficient and that note holders have no recourse whatsoever to other companies in the Aviva Group.
On 1 January 2016 a UK subsidiary, Aviva Annuity UK Limited, securitised 4,179 million of equity release mortgages by transferring them to a wholly owned subsidiary, Aviva ERFA 15 UK Limited.
In return, Aviva Annuity UK Limited received 4,154 million of loan notes issued by Aviva ERFA 15 UK Limited.
b Carrying values The following table summarises the securitisation arrangements: 2015 2014 Securitised Securitised Securitised Securitised assets borrowings assets borrowings m m m m Securitised mortgage loans At fair value note 23 2,452 1,564 2,406 1,539 Other securitisation assets liabilities 297 1,185 319 1,186 2,749 2,749 2,725 2,725 Loan notes held by third parties are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Total loan notes issued, as above 1,564 1,539 Less: Loan notes held by Group companies 256 167 Loan notes held by third parties note 49 c i 1,308 1,372 25 Interests in structured entities A structured entity is defined as an entity that has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, such as when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only, or when the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements.
The Group has interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities as described below.
The Group holds redeemable shares or units in investment vehicles, which consist of: Debt securities comprising securitisation vehicles that Aviva does not originate.
These investments are comprised of a variety of debt instruments, including asset-backed securities and other structured securities.
Investment funds which include: hedge funds, liquidity funds, private equity funds, unit trusts, mutual funds and Private Finance Initiative PFIs.
Specialised investment vehicles include Open Ended Investment Companies OEICs, Property Limited Partnerships PLPs, Socits dInvestissement a Capital Variable SICAVs and other investment vehicles.
The Groups holdings in investment vehicles are subject to the terms and conditions of the respective investment vehicles offering documentation and are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of those investment vehicles.
The investment manager makes investment decisions after extensive due diligence of the underlying investment vehicle including consideration of its strategy and the overall quality of the underlying investment vehicles manager.
All of the investment vehicles in the investment portfolio are managed by portfolio managers who are compensated by the respective investment vehicles for their services.
Such compensation generally consists of an asset-based fee and a performancebased incentive fee, and is reflected in the valuation of the investment vehicles.
190 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 190 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015
