Information on the Company Information on the Company whereby a member of the Executive Management team is History and development of Aviva accountable to the Group Chief Executive Officer CEO for the General operating segment for which they are responsible.
Due to the Aviva plc, a public limited company incorporated under the laws size of the UK & Ireland segment, it has been split into separate of England and Wales, is the holding company of the Aviva life and general insurance segments, which undertake long-term Group.
The Group provides customers with long-term insurance insurance and savings business and general and health and savings, general and health insurance, and fund insurance respectively.
Aviva Investors, our fund management management products and services.
Our purpose is to free business, operates across most markets providing fundpeople from fear of uncertainty.
The long-term strategic management services to third-party investors and to our longframework for Aviva is based on our investment thesis of cash term and general insurance businesses.
The activities of the acquired Friends Life business are Our history included within the UK & Ireland Life, Asia and Aviva Investors The Group was formed by the merger of CGU plc and Norwich segments.
CGU plc was renamed CGNU plc on completion of the merger, and subsequently renamed Aviva plc Life insurance and savings business Long-term insurance and savings business accounted for on 1 July 2002.
CGU plc and Norwich Union plc were both approximately 82% of our total worldwide sales from major UK-based insurers operating in the long-term insurance continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2015. business and general insurance markets.
Both companies had We reported total long-term insurance, savings and health new long corporate histories.
1 business sales from continuing operations of 33.1 billion.
CGU plc was formed in 1998 from the merger of Commercial Union plc and General Accident plc.
General Market position Accident plc was incorporated in 1865.
Commercial Union was 2 In the UK we have a market share of 13.3 % based on annual incorporated in 1861 and in 1905 acquired Hand in Hand, premium equivalent APE data as at 30 September 2015.
We which was incorporated in 1696. also have life insurance businesses in Ireland, France, Italy, Norwich Union plc was founded as a mutual society in 1797, th Spain, Poland, Turkey and Asia.
Further details of our position in and had expanded as a global business by the 20 century.
In each market are set out in the market sections below.
1997 it demutualised and became an English public limited company.
Brands and products On 10 April 2015, the Group completed the acquisition of In 2010, we brought all our businesses together under the Aviva Friends Life Group Limited through an all share exchange.
brand, which remains the case for the vast majority of our Further details can be found in IFRS Financial Statements Note products and services.
Our long-term insurance and savings businesses offer a broad range of life insurance and savings products.
Our Business overview products are split into the following categories: Our strategic framework Pensions a means of providing income in retirement for an Our strategic framework increases the focus on the things that individual and possibly his or her dependants.
Our pension really matter and put the customer clearly at the centre.
It products include personal and group pensions, stakeholder provides clear direction across all our markets for how we run pensions and income drawdown.
Our overarching purpose is to free people from Annuities a type of policy that pays out regular amounts of the fear of uncertainty.
And we have a clear strategy to deliver benefit, either immediately and for the remainder of a our investment thesis of cash flow growth by always putting our persons lifetime, or deferred to commence from a future customers first.
Our Strategic Anchor is the what we do, how date.
Immediate annuities may be purchased for an individual we do it and where we do it of our strategy True Customer and his or her dependants or on a bulk purchase basis for Composite, Digital First and Not Everywhere.
Deferred annuities are asset accumulation True Customer Composite contracts, which may be used to provide benefits in Meeting all customer needs across life, general, accident and retirement, and may be guaranteed, unit-linked or indexhealth insurance and asset management.
Digital First Protection an insurance contract that protects the Emphasising customer experience driven by digital online policyholder or his or her dependants against financial loss on and mobile.
Our product ranges include term Not everywhere assurance, mortgage life insurance, flexible whole of life and Focusing only in markets and segments where we can win.
critical illness cover and group schemes.
Bonds and savings accumulation products with single or This is all underpinned by our values of kill complexity, care regular premiums and unit-linked or guaranteed investment more, never rest and create legacy, the core beliefs at the heart returns.
Our product ranges include single premium of how we do business.
investment bonds and regular premium savings plans.
Investment sales retail sales of mutual fund type products Our business such as unit trusts, individual savings accounts ISAs and open Overview ended investment companies OEICs.
Our business operates across four main market sectors life Other includes equity release contracts.
insurance and savings: general insurance, accident and health insurance and fund management, providing services to over 33 Some of our insurance and investment contracts contain a million customers worldwide.
We operate in 16 different discretionary participation feature, which is a contractual right countries and have approximately 29,600 employees.
to receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed The Groups operating segments are determined along benefits.
These are referred to as participating contracts.
The operating segments are: UK & Ireland: France: Poland: Italy, Spain and Other: Canada: Asia: 1 and Aviva Investors.
These reflect the management structure See financial and operating performance for further details.
2 Association of British Insurers ABI Stats published Q3 2015.
296 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 296 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information General insurance and health insurance products and the sales forces receive commission on the General insurance and health insurance accounted for 18% of products they sell.
our total worldwide sales for the year ended 31 December Intermediaries we offer a range of long-term insurance, 2015.
In the year ended 31 December 2015, we reported savings, retirement, general insurance and health insurance general and health insurance net written premiums of 7.5 products which can be bought through an intermediary, such 1, 5 billion.
as an independent financial adviser or an insurance broker.
Subject to regulatory requirements, intermediaries receive a Market position commission on sales of Avivas products.
We are a leading general insurer in the United Kingdom and Corporate partnerships, bancassurance and joint ventures 3 4 Canada with 12.4% and 8.4% market share respectively.
We Aviva is a corporate partner for many organisations, including also have general insurance operations in France, Italy, Ireland, banks and other financial institutions, who wish to offer their and Poland.
We sell health products in the UK, Ireland, France, customers insurance products.
We have various distribution Singapore and Indonesia.
In the year ended 31 December 2015, agreements with bancassurance partners and joint ventures 5 52% of our total general insurance and health new business across the markets in which we operate.
In return for offering was written in the UK.
our products to their customers, the bank or joint venture partners receive a commission as a percentage of sales and in Brands and products some cases achieve extra commission if agreed target levels of Our general insurance business operates under the Aviva brand sales are met.
Certain agreements have a profit sharing globally and concentrates on the following products: element based on a predetermined percentage.
In some cases, Personal lines motor, household, travel and creditor: if the agreed targets are not met, certain terms of the contract Commercial lines fleet, liability and commercial property can be renegotiated.
Under the joint venture agreements, the insurance: cost of running the venture are often split between the Health insurance private health insurance, income protection partners.
and personal accident insurance, as well as a range of corporate healthcare products: and Further details of the distribution channels specific to each Corporate and specialty risks products for large clients or market are included in the following market analysis.
where the risk is specialised.
UK & Ireland Life Fund management Business overview and strategy Aviva Investors, our fund management business, provides fund On 10 April 2015, the Group completed the acquisition of management services to Avivas long-term insurance and Friends Life Group.
Integration of the Friends Life UK business is savings, and general insurance operations as well as to thirdin progress.
The fund management operations are in the UK, The UK business is a leading long-term insurance and Europe, North America and Asia.
All sales of retail fund 7 savings provider with an overall market share of 13.3%, based management products are included in our long-term insurance on annual premium equivalent APE data as at 30 September and savings business sales.
The Irish business is a large life and pensions provider in Ireland.
Market position Our strategy in the UK is to offer great value to our th Aviva Investors was ranked 48 globally by assets under customers through our market leading expertise in Retirement, 6 management.
Total worldwide funds managed by Aviva Corporate Benefits, Protection and Health products, continue to Investors, at 31 December 2015, was 290 billion.
The improve cash generation and deliver profitable growth whilst substantial majority of this relates to Avivas insurance and continuing to integrate Friends Life and realise synergies.
Our Irish long-term business is now focused primarily on distribution through intermediaries.
On 1 January 2015, Brands and products following approval from the High Court of Ireland in December Aviva Investors operates under a single brand across the 2014, the Irish business, previously within Aviva Life and majority of the Aviva Groups markets.
Its products cover a Pensions Ireland Ltd was transferred to Aviva Life and Pensions broad range of asset classes.
In Europe, this includes openUK Ltd UKLAP becoming a branch of UKLAP.
ended collective investment schemes which are domiciled in France, Luxembourg and Poland: while in the United Kingdom, Market and competition this includes segregated mandates and specialist funds for Over the last few years, Auto-Enrolment, pension freedoms and pension schemes, local authorities and insurance companies, as the Department of Work and Pensions DWP charge cap have well as retail and wholesale products.
Other offerings include transformed the way that long-term savings products are specialist property funds and money market funds.
The changes to annuities announced by the UK Chancellor Distribution of the Exchequer in the Budget in March 2014 have given Customers can buy our products through a range of distribution increased flexibility to how customers can access their pension channels, including: since coming into effect in April 2015.
These changes are Direct in many of our markets, customers can buy our having a significant impact across the market and have seen products over the telephone or via the internet.
This method many customers defer their decision regarding their pension, of distribution is most commonly available for simple products driving a general decline in the market for individual annuities.
which do not require advice.
The Department of Work and Pensions DWP charge cap of Direct sales force in some of our European and Asian 75 basis points came into force in April 2015, and the removal markets we operate direct sales forces that only sell Avivas of active member discounts AMDs commences from April 2016.
We implemented these changes in 2014, ahead of the regulatory requirement.
3 Datamonitor UK Insurance Competitor Analytics 2015.
4 Market Security Analysis & Research Inc, 2014 online database.
5 Excludes the impact of an outwards quote share reinsurance agreement in the UK.
6 7 Towers Watson World 500 largest asset managers study 2014.
Association of British Insurers ABI Stats published Q3 2015.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 297 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 297 Information on the Company continued Information on the Company continued The UK long-term savings market is highly competitive and Market and competition th The UK is the 4 largest non-life insurance market in the we consider our main competitors to be Standard Life, 10 8 world.
In 2014, the top four companies had a 36.9% share of Prudential, Legal & General, Scottish Widows, JRP Group and the UK general insurance market.
The UK and Ireland general insurance markets are cyclical in Since the return to growth in the life and pensions market in nature and remain very competitive, particularly in personal Ireland in 2013, there has been continued and increasing lines, where the market is highly commoditised.
The life insurance market in Ireland is During 2015, the UK personal motor market saw prices start relatively concentrated.
We consider our main competitors to be to rise, following 3 years of premium reductions which had Bank of Ireland Life, Irish Life, Zurich Life and Friends First.
resulted from intense competition combined with regulatory changes designed to reduce the cost of claims.
However, Products In the UK, we provide a comprehensive product range focused market conditions continue to be challenging in other UK on both the consumer and corporate markets.
The pensions and classes of business as insurers seek opportunities to gain share retirement products we offer include personal pensions, equity in segments with better margin, putting pressure on rates and release, annuities and income drawdown.
Our annuity offerings extent of cover.
In Ireland, the market remains challenging, with 9 include immediate life, enhanced, fixed-term annuities and low market growth at 3.2% in 2014 and continued marketwith-profits pension annuities.
We provide a number of wide pressure on profitability.
traditional life insurance products, including level-term, In the UK our main competitors are Direct Line Group, RSA, decreasing-term with or without critical illness, guaranteed The Admiral Group, AXA, Zurich, LV, Allianz, Ageas and NFU.
In whole of life insurance, over 50s life cover and income Ireland, our competitors include RSA, AXA, Zurich, FBD, Allianz, protection.
Our savings and investment products include ISAs, Liberty and AIG.
investment bonds, funds, base rate trackers, investments with guarantees and with-profits products.
A direct to consumer Products We provide a wide range of general insurance products both in platform was launched in June 2015, offering new retirement the UK and Ireland.
In the UK we have a business mix of propositions and investment products approximately 60% personal lines and 40% commercial lines.
In Ireland, our long-term insurance and savings business Our UK personal products include motor, home and travel offers a wide range of products with our focus being on insurance.
Our UK commercial products include motor, property protection, annuities and pensions and savings products.
Our and liability insurance for small and medium size enterprises protection products include life insurance, mortgage protection SMEs and larger UK corporate customers as well as products in and specified illness.
The pensions and savings range covers the specialty risks market.
retirement and investment products and is delivered by taking In Ireland our products include property, motor, travel, advantage of the Aviva Investors fund propositions.
agricultural and business insurance and our health insurance Distribution business products for both the personal and commercial sector.
We have a multi-distribution strategy, which means we sell our Distribution products through intermediaries, corporate partners, in the We have a multi-distribution strategy.
Our personal products are workplace, and directly to customers.
sold directly to customers over the phone and through our Our direct to consumer platform was launched in June websites, via brokers and through corporate partnerships.
Our 2015, offering new retirement propositions and investment Quotemehappy and General Accident insurance products are products.
also available through price comparison websites.
For In the UK, we have exclusive distribution deals for the sale of commercial insurance, we focus on broker distribution and protection products with Royal Bank of Scotland, Barclays, believe that independent brokers remain the best source of Santander, Tesco, the Post Office, Connells, Countrywide, and advice for business customers.
We are expanding our digital capability through allowing We remain committed to building on our existing customers to view their policies as well as purchase new relationships and distribution partnerships as well as growing products using the MyAviva app.
In addition, we have made our workplace and direct channels.
major investments in Fast Trade, our online tool for brokers and In 2015 we also launched Aviva Life Protection Solutions to implemented Guidewire, which is a new policy and claims advisers and customers in the UK, which offers flexible cover system, across our commercial lines business.
with all policy documents stored online.
France UK & Ireland General Insurance Business overview and strategy Business overview and strategy 11 France is the second largest insurance market in Europe.
We We are a leading general insurer in both the UK and Ireland 8 9 have a significant presence in the French Life insurance market with market shares of 12.4% and 13.3% respectively.
We and we operate through two main companies: Aviva Vie and employ around 6,700 people and operate from a number of Antarius JV structure with Crdit Du Nord.
On 25 February locations throughout the UK and Ireland, including Norwich, 2015, Crdit du Nord, the Groups partner in Antarius S. A Perth, Glasgow, London and Dublin.
Antarius, exercised its call option to purchase Aviva Frances We focus on personal and commercial insurance.
In the UK 8 50% share of Antarius.
In accordance with the shareholders we hold top three positions in the motor and property markets.
agreement, the exercise of the call option starts a period of We believe our key strengths include underwriting and pricing approximately two years to complete the disposal.
In sophistication, claims and cost management and excellent accordance with IFRS 5, the subsidiary will be classified as held customer service.
Our aim is to deliver cash and profitable for sale from the date when the transaction is expected to growth by focusing on the fundamentals of the insurance complete within 12 months.
business to maximise underwriting returns and we have a portfolio strategy to deliver greater stability of earnings.
8 10 Datamonitor UK Insurance Competitor Analytics 2015.
Swiss Re Sigma Study World Insurance 2014.
Insurance Europe: European Insurance Key Facts, August 2015.
298 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 298 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information th We are ranked 11 in general insurance, as measured by Market and competition The key forces shaping the insurance market in Poland are: gross written premiums, according to LArgus fide lAssurance, as Regulatory changes driven by the Polish government, at 31 December 2014.
Our strategy is to deliver sustainable including a new Insurance Act that implements Solvency II into dividends to Group by increasing profitability in our life business the local regulatory framework, as well as introducing other and targeted growth in profitable general insurance segments.
changes designed to strengthen policyholder protection and extend the powers of the regulator.
Market and competition The life insurance market is driven by individual savings and Increasing regulatory focus from governmental agencies, such dominated by bancassurance, which has accounted for around as the Financial Supervisory Authority KNF and the Office of 60% of the life insurance market over the past decade Competition and Consumer Protection UOKiK on unit-linked 12 according to FFSA.
We believe the long-term insurance and products.
savings market in France has longer-term growth potential due At the beginning of 2016, the introduction of a levy on to the ageing population and the growing need for private finance sector assets of 0.44% per annum.
We also believe that multi-funds policies and unitlinked funds are the best saving vehicles for performance over a Products Our life business in Poland provides a broad range of protection, longer period.
savings and pension products as well as health insurance.
For The general insurance market in France is mature.
In institutions we offer group life insurance and employee pension personal lines, the digital transformation occurring in the market programmes, which are both unit-linked products.
We offer a is increasing competition through multi-access and direct standard product as part of our privately managed Pillar II distribution models, whereas in commercial lines the market still pensions business.
We offer general insurance products to both mainly relies on local physical distribution networks.
For individuals, our offer consists of home, accident and travel insurance, which are Products We provide a wide range of insurance solutions: life and longprimarily sold by tied agents, as well as motor insurance, which term savings, general and health insurance and asset is sold primarily through our direct operation.
For institutions, management through Aviva Investors France.
The products sold we offer selected commercial lines risks.
through our life channel are long-term savings, pensions and Distribution regular premium products, with a focus on the unit-linked The direct sales force and bancassurance are the main market and a broad range of protection products, primarily for distribution channels for most of the Polish business and is individuals.
made up of over 2,100 tied insurance agents.
Our biggest We have a longstanding relationship with the Association relationship is with Bank Zachodni WBK a subsidiary of Banco Franaise dEpargne et fide Retraite AFER which is the largest Santander that sells both life and general insurance products retirement savings association in France with over 720,000 14 through the banks network of 723 branches.
In addition, on 3 members as at December 2014, to manufacture and distribute July 2015, we acquired Expander Advisors, the second largest the AFER savings product.
15 network of IFAs in Poland.
We also co-operate with In the general insurance market our product range includes independent insurance agencies and brokers.
Our mutual funds household, motor, health and legal protection products and also are also sold in brokerage houses and our individual products a range of insurance products for small to medium sized are supported by call centre and website sales.
entities, farms, craftsmen and tradesmen, and specific products for building firms and motor fleets.
Italy, Spain and Other Distribution Italy We have developed a multi-distribution model combining retail, Business overview and strategy th direct and bancassurance networks through owned distribution Aviva is Italys 10 largest Life insurer, with a market share of 16 th channels, independent networks and partnerships.
Our retail 2.9% based on 2014 premiums and the 13 largest General 16 network sells through over 920 tied agents, a direct sales force Insurance company with a market share of 1.28%.
We have made up of approximately 1,200 Union Financire fide France approximately 2.2 million customers across both the Life and UFF consultants and direct advisors Aviva France also holds a General Insurance businesses.
majority stake in UFF, and through brokers in the life, health During 2015 we continued to develop our business, the and construction markets.
Direct distribution is managed focus of which is to: through the Eurofil brand for personal general insurance, the Renew and refocus our distribution agreements with UBI Aviva Direct brand for protection and Epargne Actuelle for the Banca and Unicredit to maintain the level of value of new AFER product.
We operate in the bancassurance market business and, extend our product range protection, accident through our partnership with Crdit du Nord, a subsidiary of and health with Banco Popolare.
Socit Gnrale, selling life, savings and protection products.
Boost the IFA distribution channel especially in unit linked and protection products.
Accelerate general insurance organic growth of our Agents Poland network with specific focus on protection and accident and Business overview and strategy health.
Aviva is the second largest insurer in the Life individual market 13 Implement our Digital strategy, with new digital services in terms of gross written premiums with a market share of th provided to customers and distributors through MyAviva and 8%.
Our general insurance business is the 14 largest with a 14 Telematics.
market share of 1% on the same basis.
Our focus in Poland is to grow the value of life new business and in general insurance Market and competition we aim to grow our portfolio whilst maintaining the portfolio The Italian life and general insurance markets are dominated by quality and combined operating ratio.
the top 3 providers, which accounted for c. 54% and c. 48% 12 Fdration Franaise des Socits dAssurance dated 12 June 2015.
13 15 Polish Financial Supervision Authority KNF report as at 30 June 2015.
14 16 BZ WBK bank Zachodni 31 December 2015 results.
Associazione Nazionale fra le Imprese Assicuratrici ANIA.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 299 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 299 Information on the Company continued Information on the Company continued market share respectively.
The life insurance industry in Italy valuable tax advantages.
We offer a flexible range of individual reported another year of increased volumes as of 30 June 2015 and group pension plans with alternative investment choices.
with gross written premiums up by c. 15% compared to the We also offer protection products, covering both mortgages 16 same period in 2014.
The general insurance segment and credit loans, typically providing cover for the family.
decreased by 1.8% in the first half 2015 compared to the 16 Distribution previous year, mainly driven by a 5.9% decline in Motor due Through bancassurance partnerships we have established to lower average prices.
subsidiaries to distribute our products with each of the banks as set out below: Products Our Life business offers a wide range of products covering Unicorp Vida in conjunction with Unicaja since 2001. protection, savings and pensions, with a continued focus on less Caja Espaa Vida in conjunction with Caja Espaa since capital intensive products, to optimise the product mix.
We have 2001 reviewed our Unit Linked product range, and further improved Caja Granada Vida in conjunction with Caja Granada now our protection offering for both retail and bancassurance part of Banco Mare Nostrum BMN since 2002 networks.
Cajamurcia Vida in conjunction with Cajamurcia now part In 2015, as part of our household insurance offering, we of Banco Mare Nostrum BMN since 2007 launched a new connected house product sold by agents which includes a white box capable of alerting the client in Aviva Vida y Pensiones distributes our products through case of water damage, presence of gas or smoke etc.
In professional intermediaries agents and brokers, supported by a addition, we launched a new health product sold both through branch office network and call centres, and through Pelayos Banco Popolare and our retail network.
Distribution Other Our products are distributed through bancassurance The Italy, Spain, and Other segment includes our business in partnerships with Unicredit Group life, Banco Popolare Group Turkey.
life and general insurance and UBI Banca life.
These Avivas business in Turkey sells life and savings products partnerships give us access to more than 3,500 branches.
In including unit-linked pensions through its life joint venture, addition, we also have approximately 1,500 active financial AvivaSA, which is listed as AVISA on Borsa Istanbul.
advisors life, and a retail network of c. 700 insurance multiAvivaSA has an exclusive bancassurance agreement with mandate agents and brokers general insurance and life as at Akbank until 2029.
Akbank sells AvivaSAs life and pensions 30 June 2015. products on an exclusive basis through its banking network in Turkey.
Spain Business overview and strategy Canada th We are Spains 11 largest long-term insurer by gross written Business overview and strategy premiums with a market share of 3% as at 30 September 18 We are Canadas second largest general insurer.
We sell protection, long-term savings and pensions, distribution partners we provide a range of personal and health and accident insurance through a bancassurance commercial lines general insurance products to 2.8 million network based on four joint ventures with three banks.
We have an 8.4% market share and a top five sell through Aviva Vida y Pensiones, the wholly-owned Aviva 18 position in all major provinces.
We employ over 3,300 people branded long-term insurance company and through our Spanish and operate from a head office in Toronto, with other offices mutual insurance company Pelayo.
Our strategy is to maintain the franchise value in Spain and We believe that we are well placed for continued growth to develop our retail operations with new distribution and that our success is underpinned by our focus on the agreements.
The ongoing focus is on less capital intensive insurance fundamentals of pricing, risk selection, distribution, products.
claims indemnity and expense management.
We are broadening our distribution reach and strengthening our Market and competition business mix, as well as taking a Digital First approach to our We have seen the Spanish insurance market recover with business.
improved lending conditions, and expect this to benefit our On 21 January 2016, Aviva Group announced that Aviva credit linked insurance product sales.
Canada will acquire RBC General Insurance Company and enter The top positions in the long-term life insurance market are into an exclusive 15 year strategic agreement with RBC dominated by bank-owned or bank-insurer joint ventures, with Insurance.
The proposed transaction is subject to customary the overall bancassurance channel accounting for more than closing conditions, including receipt of required regulatory 65% of gross written premiums at the end of 2014 in the approvals and is expected to complete in the third quarter of 17 Spanish life insurance market.
Customers in Spain are accustomed to receiving advice We believe the transformation of our commercial lines through banking channels, and we continue to use our business over the last few years has ensured the business is relationship with our partners to capitalise on this whilst highly competitive.
We expect that continued refinement to our developing our retail agents and broker distribution network.
models will allow us to leverage this position to positively react to market opportunities.
We will continue to address increasing Products customer demand for choice, simplicity and self-service by We offer a wide range of bonds, savings, and protection working with our broker partners on processes and technology products.
Investment products include both unit linked and solutions in order to help them compete with other channels.
traditional plans, where profit sharing is regularly used to increase the policy return.
Our traditional plans include savings schemes and income products.
Pension savings products have 17 18 Investigacin Co-operativa entre Entidades Asegurados y Fordos fide Pensionies ICEA.
Market Security Analysis & Research Inc, 2014 online database.
300 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 300 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information Market and competition bancassurance businesses and continue the diversification of our th 19 Canada is the 8 largest non-life insurance market in the distribution networks.
world and is established and stable.
The four largest provinces In Hong Kong, our wholly owned subsidiary operates generate around 88% of total premiums with Ontario, the primarily through IFA distribution networks.
18 largest, representing 46% of total Canadian premiums.
In India, with a distribution network of 121 branches, we The Canadian general insurance industry is highly operate in partnership with the Dabur Group through a 26% fragmented with many small players and no dominant interest in Aviva Life Insurance Company India Ltd. As at 31 th consumer brand.
Steady consolidation has resulted in the top October 2015, we ranked 13 among the private life insurance five companies representing 42% of the market and the top companies in India based on total APE including Group 23 two companies, Intact Financial and Aviva, controlling 23% of Business.
The rest of the industry includes several national Friends Provident International Limited FPIL, an Isle of carriers as well as smaller, provincially based or niche companies.
Man-based company with operations in Asia, was acquired in Whilst direct and affinity channels are gradually increasing in April 2015 as part of the acquisition of Friends Life.
market share, the traditional broker channel accounts for a high proportion of distribution personal lines and commercial lines.
Market and competition In addition to the growth of direct and affinity channels, The Asian markets are strategically important to Aviva, owing to insurance carriers are increasingly supporting and controlling large populations in fast-growing economies, coupled with distribution through investment in brokers.
relatively low insurance penetration rates and social insurance coverage.
Life insurance penetration as measured by insurance Products premium as a proportion of GDP in most Asian countries is The general insurance products that we provide through our typically less than 6% 1.7% in China, 1.1% in Indonesia, 0.7% 24 Canadian companies are: in Vietnam, and 5% in Singapore.
The Asian markets are 25 Personal, home and motor insurance: expected to deliver GDP growth of 6.2% in 2016, ranging 25 25 Small and medium-size enterprise commercial insurance, from 3.4% in Singapore to 6.8% in China.
including motor, property, liability, boiler and machinery, and surety: and Products Niche personal insurance products including holiday trailers, Our Asian businesses offer a wide range of protection, savings, boats as well as antique, classic and custom cars.
and pension products, including universal life, participating and non-participating endowments, unit-linked single and regular Distribution premium life insurance, and a range of accident and health Independent brokers are our largest distribution channel, with insurance products.
1,500 independent group and retail brokers distributing our FPIL offers a range of products including single premium core personal and commercial line products.
We also built our investment products, regular premium savings plans, and own direct distribution capability and, with the proposed individual assurance policies.
acquisition of RBC General Insurance Company, we will have exposure to customers who choose to deal directly with their Distribution insurer.
Across Asia, we operate a multi-distribution strategy.
In Singapore, we operate across multiple proprietary and affinity channels, and also own a majority interest in Professional Asia Investment Advisory Services Pte Ltd, a leading financial advisory Business overview and strategy firm.
In China, our products are sold mainly through agents, In Asia, we are focused on growth.
Increasing the value of our telemarketing, and bancassurance.
In Indonesia, individual new business remains our first priority in Asia.
We are achieving business is primarily sold through our bancassurance channel this through scale benefits and by focusing our product mix on and group business is sold through our direct sales force.
Taiwan, bancassurance is our main distribution channel and our In Singapore, our life business is a leading insurer in the 20 products are also sold through direct marketing.
In Vietnam, our market, providing employee benefit and individual life products are sold through bancassurance and agents.
We are insurance through diversified distribution channels.
We also also investing in other channels such as direct marketing and have general insurance and health operations in Singapore and digital to differentiate ourselves from competitors.
In Hong are considered the market leader in online personal motor 21 Kong, we operate primarily through IFA networks.
On 31 December 2015, our 15 year regional bancassurance In China, through our 50% joint venture with COFCO agreement with DBS Bank Ltd expired and was not renewed.
Capital Investment Co. Ltd, we are ranked number 7 among 27 22 Aviva retains the existing book of business, associated profits, foreign life insurers in terms of APE as at 30 September 2015. and customer rights and relationships which were purchased in We have a presence in 12 provinces and over 50 branches.
We the original transaction with DBS in 2001. operate a multi-distribution platform including agency, FPILs products are targeted towards affluent expatriate bancassurance, direct marketing, and brokerage channels individuals and are sold via distribution hubs in Hong Kong, offering a wide range of protection and savings products.
Singapore and the United Arab Emirates.
In Indonesia, through our 50% joint venture with PT Astra International Tbk, we distribute our products primarily through our bancassurance arrangement with Permata Bank that Aviva Investors launched in December 2014. Business overview and strategy In Taiwan and Vietnam, through our joint ventures with First Aviva Investors offers a range of fund management services, Financial Holdings Co. Ltd and Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial operating in the UK, Europe, North America and Asia and had Bank for Industry and Trade, respectively, we aim to grow our 290 billion in assets under management as at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: 246 billion, including assets 19 Swiss Re Sigma Study World Insurance 2014.
20 23 Latest available competitor results 30 June 2015.
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India 31 October 2015.
21 24 The General Insurance Association of Singapore 30 September 2015.
22 25 National Insurance Industry Communication Club 30 September 2015.
Asian Development Bank, Asian Development Outlook 2015 update.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 301 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 301 Information on the Company continued Information on the Company continued managed by Friends Life Investments FLI, as a result of the provides Aviva Investors strategies to US customers in US openacquisition of Friends Life.
Our largest clients are the long-term insurance, savings, and Our property funds are targeted at specialist real estate general insurance businesses of Aviva, to whom we provide buyers and large institutions mostly pension funds and local bespoke asset management services across a broad spectrum of authorities, and our money market funds are sold by a specialist asset classes.
sales team and target corporate treasury functions.
We provide external clients with bespoke segregated solutions or offer access to a variety of fund ranges.
Our principal target clients for the larger segregated solutions tend to be large pension funds and financial institutions such as insurance companies and banks.
Our strategy is to offer a range of investment propositions to deliver the specific outcomes that our clients value.
Market and competition At the end of 2014, the global asset management market stood at circa USD$74 trillion in size, almost half of which was 26 accounted for by North America, and nearly a third by Europe.
The global market is highly fragmented, with the top ten managers accounting for around a third of the total assets, and hundreds of other managers accounting for the remainder.
As such, the dynamics in all large markets are highly competitive.
th Aviva Investors is ranked 48 in The Worlds 500 Largest Asset 27 Managers.
Our main competitors are large global asset managers including Blackrock, State Street Global, Fidelity Investments, Schroders and Aberdeen, in addition to other UK and European insurer-owned asset managers with whom we compete on a product by product basis.
Products Our products cover a broad range of asset classes.
In Europe, we have a range of SICAVs open-ended collective investment schemes, which are domiciled in France, Luxembourg and Poland.
These funds have different share classes depending on the size and type of investor.
Our traditional distribution model for these funds focuses on wholesale distributors, asset allocators and small to mid-size institutional investors.
In the UK, we largely sell segregated mandates and specialist funds to pension schemes, local authorities and insurance companies.
We also supply products to the retail and wholesale markets, principally through UK domiciled bond, real estate, equity, multi-asset and multi-strategy OEIC funds.
The Aviva Investors Multi-Strategy AIMS range of funds focuses on meeting the needs of our customers to achieve better outcomes with their investments.
In addition, we have a range of pooled pension funds which are aimed at the smaller pension fund market, normally defined benefit schemes.
We also have a range of specialist property funds, six money market funds domiciled in Dublin and Paris, and also offer feeder funds domiciled in the Cayman Islands for US and Australian investors.
Distribution Aviva Investors has a Global Business Development team based in 16 locations with clients around the world.
We manage relationships with a diverse range of clients including corporate and public sector pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, financial institutions, charities, insurance companies, wealth managers and national and local government bodies.
Our distribution model for our open-ended collective investment schemes focuses on wholesale distributors, asset allocators and small to mid-size institutional investors.
In the UK, our retail products are promoted to investors via independent financial advisors, fund platforms, fund supermarkets and discretionary asset managers.
In the United States, we have a strategic partnership with Virtus Investment Partners which 26 Boston Consulting Group, Global Asset Management 2014.
27 Towers Watson World 500 largest asset managers study 2014.
302 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 302 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015
