Please note that each Aviva ADR represents two 2 ordinary shares.
Percentages do not necessarily add up due to rounding.
2016 financial calendar Annual General Meeting 11am on 4 May 2016 The full financial calendar will be available at www.
com investor-relations financial-calendar 2015 final dividend dates ordinary shares Ex-dividend date ordinary 7 April 2016 Record date ordinary and ADR 8 April 2016 Last day for Dividend Reinvestment Plan election 25 April 2016 Dividend payment date 17 May 2016 Please note that the ADR local payment date will be approximately five business days after the proposed dividend date for ordinary shares.
The ex-dividend date for ADR holders will be 6 April 2016.
Dividends Annual General Meeting AGM Ordinary Dividends are normally paid in May and The 2016 AGM will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Centre, November please see the table above for the key dates in Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE, on respect of the 2015 final dividend Wednesday, 4 May 2016, at 11am Preference share dividends are normally paid in March, Details of each resolution to be considered at the meeting June, September and December and voting instructions are provided in the Notice of AGM, Currency holders of ordinary and preference shares will which is available on the Companys website at receive any dividends payable in sterling and holders of ADRs www.
com agm will receive any dividends payable in US dollars The voting results of the 2016 AGM will be accessible on the Direct payment of dividends receive your payments Companys website at www.
com agm shortly after the directly into your UK bank or building society account on the meeting dividend payment date.
Using this option will prevent any postal delay, risk of loss or having to visit your bank or Aviva plc strategic report building society to deposit cheques The strategic report sets out a review of Avivas business by Global payment service provided by the Companys addressing key issues such as: its business model: strategy: Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC and principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
It Computershare, this service enables shareholders living also includes information on environmental matters and overseas to elect to receive their dividends in a choice of over employees: social, community and human rights issues: and 60 international currencies.
For further details and fees for gender diversity within the business this service please visit www.
co. uk faq and The strategic report forms part of the annual report and select the Dividends and Payments tab, followed by Global accounts.
However, shareholders can also choose to receive Payment Service Avivas standalone strategic report as an alternative to the full Dividend Reinvestment Plan enables eligible shareholders annual report and accounts.
Please view the Aviva plc to reinvest their cash dividend in additional ordinary shares in strategic report at www.
com 2015ar the Company Further information including the 2016 dividend timetable can be found at www.
com dividends or by ShareGift contacting Computershare using the details on the next page ShareGift is a UK registered charity No.
1052686 which specialises in realising the value locked up in small Form 20-F shareholdings for charitable purposes.
During 2015, Aviva Aviva is a foreign private issuer in the United States of shareholders have donated 55,000 including Gift Aid to America and is subject to certain reporting requirements of ShareGift, which in turn supported local, national and the Securities Exchange Commission SEC.
Aviva files its Form international charities large and small.
To donate your 20-F with the SEC, copies of which can be found at Aviva plc shares to ShareGift please visit www.
org donate-shares Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 351 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 351 Shareholder services continued Shareholder services continued Manage your shares online using the Investor Centre at www.
com online Switch to View any Change your Change payment electronic View your outstanding address options communications shareholding payments Group Company Secretary Ordinary and preference shares Contact: Shareholders may contact the Group Company Secretary as For any queries regarding your shareholding, or to make follows: changes to your personal details, please contact the Companys Registrar, Computershare: By Email: Aviva.
com By Telephone: 0371 495 0105 Lines are open 8.30am In Writing: Kirstine Cooper, Group Company Secretary, to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday excluding public St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London, EC3P 3DQ holidays.
Please call 44 117 378 8361 if calling from outside of the UK By Telephone: 44 0 20 7283 2000 By Email: AvivaSHARES@computershare.
co. uk In Writing: Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Useful Links for Shareholders Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ Shareholder services centre: www.
com shareholders American Depositary Receipts ADRs Contact: Manage your shares online: For any queries regarding Aviva ADRs, please contact Citibank www.
com online Shareholder Services Citibank : Dividend information: By Telephone: 1 877 248 4237 1 877-CITI-ADR, or www.
com dividends 1 781 575 4555 if calling from outside of the US Lines are open 8.30am to 6pm, Monday to Friday US Eastern Annual General Meeting information and electronic voting: Standard Time.
co. uk eproxy By Email: Citibank@shareholders-online.
com Aviva reports information: In Writing: Citibank Shareholder Services, PO Box 43077, www.
com reports Providence, Rhode Island, 02940-3077 USA Aviva share price: www.
com shareprice Be on your guard beware of fraudsters!
Please be very wary of any unsolicited telephone calls or Aviva preference share price: correspondence offering to buy shares at a discount or www.
com offering free financial advice or company reports.
The Financial Conduct Authority FCA takes action against fraudsters: for tips on how to protect your savings please visit www.
Alternatively please visit our warning to shareholders page at www.
Remember: If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to call you out of the blue Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the firm and hang up 352 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 352 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015
