Shareholder information Shareholder information Company address The Companys registered office is St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London, EC3P 3DQ.
The Companys telephone number is 44 0 20 7283 2000.
Share capital The Company has two classes of shares in issue: Ordinary shares of 0.25 each which constitute equity security and hold voting rights Cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each, which entitle holders to attend and vote at general meetings only when dividends on such shares are in arrears.
Cumulative irredeemable preference shareholders may also attend general meetings and vote on particular proposals when such proposals relate to an alteration of the rights attaching to such shares, a reduction of capital other than through a redemption or repurchase of shares or a winding up of business.
On a winding up, they carry a preferential right of return of capital ahead of the ordinary shares Issued share capital The Company had an aggregate issued and outstanding ordinary share capital of 1,012 million as of 31 December 2015.
The following table sets out information about the issued and outstanding classes of equity as of 31 December 2015.
Shares issued and outstanding Shares covered by outstanding options 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Share class Million Million Million Million Million Million Ordinary shares, nominal value 25p 4,048 2,950 2,947 18 17 20 8.375% Cumulative irredeemable preference shares, nominal value 1 100 100 100 8.75% Cumulative irredeemable preference shares, nominal value 1 100 100 100 The Companies Act 2006 abolished the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the Companys current articles of association reflect this.
Directors are still limited as to the number of shares they can allot, as the allotment authority continues to be required under the Act, save in respect of employee share schemes.
Details of existing authorities to allot shares are set out in notes 30 and 33.
Ordinary shares in issue in the Company rank pari passu.
All the ordinary shares in issue carry the same right to receive all dividends and other distributions declared, made or paid by the Company.
The Company is not permitted under English law to hold its own ordinary shares.
Whilst the Company is presently authorised to repurchase up to 295 million ordinary shares, any shares that are repurchased must be cancelled.
Details of the Companys dividends are set out in the section Dividend data.
The Companys preference shares rank, as to the payment of dividends and capital, as set out in note 33 of the IFRS Financial statements.
Share options and awards The Company maintains a number of active stock option and share award schemes.
Details of any outstanding awards under these schemes are set out in IFRS Financial statements note 31 Groups share plans.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in Note 31 and or the Directors remuneration report.
In addition to the share schemes mentioned in note 31 and the DRR, we operate the following share schemes: The matching share plan Under the Aviva all employee share ownership plan AESOP, eligible employees can invest up to statutory limits, currently 150 per month out of their gross salary in the Companys shares.
A matching element was introduced in April 2013 through which the Company matches every purchased share with two matching shares for the first 40 of a participants monthly contribution.
Matching shares are subject to forfeiture if purchased shares are withdrawn from the AESOP within three years of purchase, as long as the employee remains employed by the Company.
Participants are also eligible to receive dividend shares through the AESOP.
Aviva Group employee share ownership scheme Aviva Group operates an Irish Revenue approved share scheme for employees of the Aviva Group in Ireland.
Under the Aviva Group Employee Share Ownership Scheme, eligible employees can elect to forego some of their gross bonus and gross salary up to a maximum of 12,700 per tax year in exchange for the Companys shares.
The shares are held in trust for three years.
Aviva France employee profit sharing scheme Aviva France operates an employee profit sharing scheme where employees are given an award based on a percentage of salary, which can be either received in cash or invested in one of four mutual funds.
One of the four mutual funds is invested solely in Aviva plc ordinary shares.
Any investment in a mutual fund must be held for at least five years.
318 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 318 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information Additional information For the purposes of Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following locations: Section in LR 9.8.
4C R Topic Location in the annual report and accounts 1 Interest capitalised N A 2 Publication of unaudited financial information N A 3 Requirement deleted from the listing rules 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes DRR and IFRS Financial Statements note 31 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director N A 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director N A 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash N A 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings N A 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary N A 10 Contracts of significance N A 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder N A 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends IFRS Financial Statements note 32 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends IFRS Financial Statements note 32 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders N A History of share capital The following table sets out information about the history of the Companys ordinary shares over the last three full calendar years.
Number of shares outstanding At 31 December 2012 2,945,972,261 1 Shares issued under the Groups Employee and Executive Share Option Schemes 967,361 At 31 December 2013 2,946,939,622 1 Shares issued under the Groups Employee and Executive Share Option Schemes 3,547,718 At 31 December 2014 2,950,487,340 1 Shares issued under the Groups Employee and Executive Share Option Schemes 11,651,227 Shares issued in relation to the acquisition of Friends Life 1,086,326,606 At 31 December 2015 4,048,465,173 1 For more information on our various option schemes, see note 31 in the financial statements.
There were no changes to the voting rights of any class of shares during 2013, 2014 and 2015, other than issuances in connection with our various employee option schemes and in relation to the acquisition of Friends Life.
The Company did not issue shares for consideration other than cash during 2013, 2014 and 2015, with the exception of the acquisition of Friends Life.
Details of the acquisition through a share exchange are set out in note 3.
In addition, at the Companys general meetings in 2013, 2014 and 2015, shareholders authorised the limited dis-application of section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 to permit the Company to issue new equity securities for cash without applying shareholders statutory pre-emptive rights.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 319 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 319 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued advanced to these entities, movements in which may be found Related party disclosures in note 18 a i.
Related party transactions Our fund management companies also charge fees to these For more information relating to related party transactions, joint ventures for administration services and for arranging including more information about the transactions described external finance.
below, please see IFRS Financial Statements note 60 Related Our UK fund management companies manage most of the party transactions.
assets held by the Groups main UK staff pension scheme, for Subsidiaries which they charge fees based on the level of funds under Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are management.
The main UK scheme holds investments in Groupeliminated on consolidation.
managed funds and insurance policies with other Group companies, as explained in note 48 b ii.
Key management compensation The related parties receivables are not secured and no The total compensation to those employees classified as key guarantees were received in respect thereof.
The receivables will management, being those having authority and responsibility be settled in accordance with normal credit terms.
Details of for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the guarantees, indemnities and warranties provided on behalf of Group, including the executive and non-executive directors is as related parties are given in note 52 f. follows: Loans to joint ventures 2015 2014 2013 We make loans to our property management joint ventures to m m m fund property developments which we undertake with our joint Salary and other short-term benefits 13.3 8.9 6.7 venture partners.
Movements in these loans may be found in Post-employment benefits 1.7 1.0 1.1 Equity compensation plans 10.6 1.9 3.3 IFRS Financial Statements Note 18 Interests in, and loans to, Termination benefits 2.0 1.1 joint ventures.
Total loans at 31 December 2015 and at the end Other long-term benefits 5.2 4.1 1.6 of each of the last three financial years are shown in the table Total 32.8 15.9 13.8 below: The increase in total key management compensation in 2015 2015 2014 2013 m m m mainly reflects the effect of an increase in the number of Loans to joint ventures 94 73 24 employees classified as key management compared to 2014.
Various directors and key management of Aviva may from time Dividend data to time purchase insurance, asset management or annuity The Company has a policy to pay a progressive dividend with products from Aviva Group companies in the ordinary course of reference to growth in cash flows and earnings.
Under UK business on substantially the same terms, including interest rates company law, we may only pay dividends if the Company has and security requirements, as those prevailing at the time for distributable profits available.
Distributable profits are comparable transactions with other persons.
accumulated, realised profits not previously distributed or Apart from the disclosed transactions discussed above and in capitalised, less accumulated, unrealised losses not previously the Governance section of this report, no director had an written off based on IFRS.
Even if distributable profits are interest in shares, transactions or arrangements that requires available, we pay dividends only if the amount of our net assets disclosure under applicable rules and regulations.
is not less than the aggregate of our called-up share capital and undistributable reserves and the payment of the dividend does Other related parties not reduce the amount of our net assets to less than that The Group received income from and paid expenses to other aggregate.
related parties from transactions made in the normal course of As a holding company, the Company is dependent upon business.
Loans to other related parties are made on normal dividends and interest from our subsidiaries to pay cash arms length commercial terms.
Many of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to insurance regulations that restrict the amount of dividends that Services provided to other related parties they can pay to us.
From 1 January 2016, the Company and its insurance subsidiaries in the UK, are also required to comply 2015 2014 2013 Income Receivable Income Receivable Income Receivable with the PRA Supervisory Statement SS2 15 in respect of the earned at year earned at year earned at year payment of dividends.
in year end in year end in year end m m m m m m Historically, the Company has declared an interim and a final Associates 9 7 3 11 dividend for each year with the final dividend being paid in the Joint ventures 27 192 28 154 51 56 year following the year to which it relates.
Subject to the Employee restrictions set out above, the payment of interim dividends on pension schemes 13 3 11 3 12 9 ordinary shares is made at the discretion of our Board, whilst 49 195 46 157 66 76 payment of any final dividend requires the approval of the Companys shareholders at a general meeting.
Preference In addition to the amounts disclosed for associates and joint shares are irredeemable and dividends on preference shares are ventures above, at 31 December 2015 amounts payable at yearmade at the discretion of our Board.
end were nil 2014: nil, and expenses incurred during the The Company pays cash dividends in pounds sterling, period were 7 million 2014: 2 million.
although the articles of association permit payment of dividends Transactions with joint ventures in the UK relate to the on ordinary shares in other currencies and in forms other than property management undertakings, the most material of which cash, such as ordinary shares.
If dividends on ordinary shares are listed in note 18 a iii.
Our interest in these joint ventures held by the American Depositary Shares ADS depositary are comprises a mix of equity and loans, together with the provision paid in pounds sterling, the ADS depositary will convert the of administration services and financial management to many of pounds sterling that it receives on behalf of the ADS holders them.
Our UK life insurance companies earn interest on loans 320 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 320 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information into US dollars according to the prevailing market rate on the entities have been consolidated and included in the statement date that the ADS depositary actually receives the dividends.
of financial position, as we retain the residual interest in them.
From the 2009 interim dividend to the 2012 interim Limited liability partnerships classified as joint ventures dividend, shareholders on record were provided the opportunity As part of their investment strategy, the UK and certain to elect to receive dividends in the form of newly issued ordinary European long-term business policyholder funds have invested shares through the Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme.
For the 2012 in a number of property limited partnerships PLP, either directly final and subsequent dividends, the Aviva Scrip Dividend or via property unit trusts PUT, through a mix of capital and Scheme has been withdrawn.
The PLPs are managed by general partners GP, in which An interim dividend is generally paid in November of each the long-term business shareholder companies hold equity year.
A final dividend is typically proposed by the Companys stakes and which themselves hold nominal stakes in the PLPs.
Board after the end of the relevant year and generally paid in The PUTs are managed by a Group subsidiary.
The following table shows certain information regarding Accounting for the PUTs and PLPs as subsidiaries, joint the dividends that we paid on ordinary shares for the periods ventures, associates or other financial investments depends on indicated in pounds sterling and converted into US dollars at the whether the Group is deemed to have control or joint control noon buying rate in effect on each payment date.
Interim Interim over the PUTs and PLPs shareholdings in the GPs and the terms dividend per dividend per Final dividend Final dividend of each partnership agreement are considered along with other share share per share per share Year pence cents pence cents factors that determine control.
In respect of these PLPs, there are no significant 2015 6.75 10.21 14.05 N A contingent liabilities to which we are exposed, nor do we have any significant contingent liabilities in relation to our interests in Guarantees, securitised assets and off-balance them.
External debt raised by the PLPs is secured on their sheet arrangements respective property portfolios, and the lenders are only entitled As a normal part of our operating activities, various Group to obtain payment of both interest and principal to the extent companies have given financial guarantees and options, there are sufficient resources in the respective PLPs.
The lenders including interest rate guarantees, in respect of certain longhave no recourse whatsoever to the policyholder and term assurance and fund management products, as set out in shareholders funds of any companies in the Aviva Group.
At 31 Note 42 to the IFRS Financial Statements.
These are accounted December 2015, we had 47 million capital commitments to for on-balance sheet as either part of the host insurance these PLP joint ventures.
contract or as financial instruments under IFRS.
Information on operating lease commitments can be found Liquidity and capital resources in Note 53 b to the IFRS Financial Statements.
Treasury function It is standard business practice for our Group companies to The treasury function of our business is managed by our give guarantees, indemnities and warranties in connection with centralised treasury team, headed by the Group treasurer.
The disposals of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates to third Group treasurer acts as owner of Group business standards for parties.
As of 31 December 2015, we believe no material loss liquidity and foreign exchange risk management within the will arise in respect of these guarantees, indemnities and Group risk governance and oversight framework.
Principal warranties include the accuracy and policy require the agreement of the Chief Risk Officer.
These completeness of the statement of financial position at an agreed policies are independently implemented and monitored by each specified date, details of outstanding litigation, regulatory of our businesses.
Our central treasury team is split into distinct matters, material contractual commitments, the position on tax functions: a Group team, which develops our overall treasury filings and other customary matters together with any specific strategy and our treasury team at Aviva Investors, which items identified during due diligence.
In addition, specific manages and monitors our treasury and cash flow positions for clauses cover such items as regulatory approvals and licences, our holding companies.
Each business unit is responsible for the basis of calculation regarding actuarial insurance liabilities, monitoring its own cash and liquidity positions, as well as its reinsurance contracts and the status of employee pension plans.
It is our policy to make the Their exact terms are tailored to each disposal and are set out in majority of our financing arrangements at the parent company the respective sale and purchase agreement.
Similarly, the open level for our business units, primarily through external warranty periods, within which the purchaser could claim, and borrowings and equity offerings.
This enables us to achieve the limits on the maximum amount potentially recoverable will vary efficiencies afforded by our collective size.
A number of our for each item covered in each disposal.
business units also raise debt on their own behalf.
We have received notice of a number of claims on recent Our principal objective in managing our liquidity and capital disposals, and where appropriate, hold provisions in respect of resources is to maximise the return on capital to shareholders, such claims.
There are also open claim periods on other recent while enabling us to pay dividends, service our debt and our disposals in respect of which we have neither received, nor have holding companies cash flows.
In the context of a financial any reason to believe we will receive, any claims.
Accordingly, as services company where our working capital is largely of 31 December 2015, we believe that appropriate provisions representative of our liquidity, we believe that our working have been made regarding known and expected material capital is sufficient for our present operational requirements.
For warranty and indemnity claims relating to recent disposal additional information, see IFRS Financial statements Note 57 activity.
We have loans receivable, secured by mortgages, which have then been securitised through non-recourse borrowings by Extraordinary market conditions special purpose entities in our UK Life business, as set out in Starting in mid-September 2008, the global financial markets Note 24 to the IFRS Financial Statements.
These special purpose experienced unprecedented disruption, adversely affecting the Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 321 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 321 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued business environment in general, as well as financial services in a variety of currencies, predominantly sterling and euro, companies in particular.
Markets have improved but continue to based on investor demand at the time of issuance and be fragile.
A return to adverse financial market conditions could management of the Groups foreign exchange translation significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs and obtain exposures in the statement of financial position.
capital, although management believes that we have liquidity In June 2015 Aviva plc issued 900 million and 400 million and capital resources to meet business requirements under of Lower Tier 2 subordinated debt callable in 2025 and 2030 current and stressed market conditions.
This was used to repay the following instruments: At 31 December 2015, total consolidated cash and cash 268 million Step-up Tier 1 Insurance Capital Securities at first equivalents net of bank overdrafts amounted to 33,170 call date in July 2015: 500 million undated subordinated debt million, an increase of 10,606 million from 22,564 million in at first call date in September 2015: and 200 million debenture 2014. loans in September 2015, ahead of the June 2016 maturity.
Processes for monitoring and managing liquidity risk, At 31 December 2015, our total external borrowings, including liquidity stress models, have been enhanced to take including subordinated debt and securitised mortgage loans, into account the extraordinary market conditions, including the amounted to 8.8 billion 2014: 7.4 billion.
Of the total impact on policyholder and counterparty behaviour, the ability borrowings, 6.9 billion 2014: 5.3 billion are considered to to sell various investment assets and the ability to raise be core borrowings and are included within the Groups capital incremental funding from various sources.
The balance of 1.9 billion 2014: 2.1 billion taken steps to strengthen liquidity in light of its assessment of represents operational debt issued by operating subsidiaries.
We the impact of market conditions and intends to continue to also have substantial committed credit facilities available for our monitor liquidity closely.
At 31 December 2015, we had undrawn committed credit facilities expiring within one year of 0.6 billion 2014: 0.4 Management of capital resources billion and 1.1 billion in credit facilities expiring after more We seek to maintain an efficient capital structure using a than one year 2014: 1.2 billion.
combination of equity shareholders funds, preference capital, Further information on the maturity profile, currency and subordinated debt and borrowings.
This structure is consistent interest rate structure of our borrowings is presented in IFRS with our risk profile and the regulatory and market Financial statements Note 49 Borrowings.
Commercial requirements of our business.
paper is issued for terms up to 12 months and is generally In managing our capital, we seek to: reissued at maturity.
The earliest repayment date for other debt match the profile of our assets and liabilities, taking into instruments is a $400 million subordinated debt instrument with account the risks inherent in each business: a first call date of 1 December 2016 at the option of the maintain financial strength to support new business growth Company.
At this time Aviva will have the option of repaying whilst still satisfying the requirements of policyholders, the debt or deferring repayment until future coupon dates.
regulators and rating agencies: The table below presents our debt position for the periods retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity, access indicated: to a range of capital markets and significant unutilised 2015 2014 m m committed credit lines: Core structural borrowings allocate capital efficiently to support growth and repatriate Subordinated debt 6,469 4,594 excess capital where appropriate: and Debenture loans 200 Commercial paper 485 516 manage exposures to movements in exchange rates by 6,954 5,310 aligning the deployment of capital by currency with our capital requirements by currency.
Less: Amounts held by Group Companies 42 6,912 5,310 We are subject to a number of regulatory capital tests and Operating borrowings Operational borrowings at amortised cost 550 696 employ realistic scenario tests to allocate capital and manage Operational borrowings at fair value 1,308 1,372 risk.
The impact of these regulatory capital tests on our ability to 1,858 2,068 transfer capital around the Group through dividends and capital Total 8,770 7,378 injections is discussed later in this section under the headings Sources of liquidity and Capital injections.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had 25.1 billion 31 In the UK, we have raised non-recourse funding secured against books of mortgages.
This funding has been raised through the December 2014: 17.6 billion of total capital employed on an use of special-purpose entities.
The beneficial interest in the IFRS basis in our trading operations which is financed by a books of mortgages has been passed to these special-purpose combination of equity shareholders funds, preference capital, entities.
These entities, which are owned by independent direct capital instrument and tier 1 notes, subordinated debt trustees, have funded this transfer through the issue of loan and internal and external borrowings.
In addition to external funding sources, we have a number The value of the secured assets and the corresponding nonof internal debt arrangements in place.
All internal loans satisfy recourse funding was 1,308 million 2014: 1,372 million.
We arms length criteria and all interest payments have been made continue to receive fees from these special purpose entities in when due.
respect of loan administration services.
Management of debt These special purpose entities have been consolidated as we Aviva plc is the principal financing vehicle in our centralised retain the residual interest in them.
The transactions and funding strategy.
We aim to manage our external debt in line reasons for consolidation are discussed further within IFRS with rating agency limits applicable for entities with a rating in Financial statements Note 24 Securitised mortgages and the AA range.
We manage the maturity of our borrowings and related assets.
our undrawn committed facilities to avoid bunching of maturities.
We aim to maintain access to a range of funding sources, including the banking market, the commercial paper market and the long-term debt capital markets.
We issue debt 322 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 322 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information Undrawn borrowings Excess centre cash flow of 699 million has remained broadly At 31 December 2015, we had 1.7 billion 2014: 1.6 billion stable compared with the prior period.
Increased internal undrawn committed central borrowing facilities available to us, interest received driven by Friends Life intercompany loans and provided by various highly rated banks, all of which have foreign exchange movement gains on Group centre holdings investment grade credit ratings.
These borrowings are used to was offset by an increase in external interest, largely due to the support Avivas commercial paper programme.
Undrawn inclusion of Friends Life external debt, as well as higher central borrowings are analysed below: spend mainly relating to Friends Life and investment in our digital capability.
In addition, the total excess centre cash flow is 2015 2014 reduced as a result of the dividend payment retained in Canada m m to part-fund the proposed acquisition of Royal Bank of Canada Expiring within one year 575 350 General Insurance Company.
Expiring beyond one year 1,075 1,200 Under UK company law, dividends can only be paid if a Total 1,650 1,550 company has distributable reserves sufficient to cover the dividend.
At 31 December 2015, Aviva plc itself had Our committed central borrowing facilities have no financial distributable reserves of 3,124 million, which would have covenants following the renewal of terms undertaken in 2015. covered four years of historic dividend payments to our shareholders.
In UK Life, our largest operating subsidiary, Sources of liquidity distributable reserves, which could be paid to Aviva plc via its In managing our cash flow position, we have a number of intermediate holding company, are created mainly by the sources of liquidity, including: statutory long-term business profit transfer to shareholders.
dividends from operating subsidiaries: While the UK insurance regulatory laws applicable to UK Life external debt issuance: and our other UK subsidiaries impose no statutory restrictions internal debt and central assets: and on an insurers ability to declare a dividend, the rules require funds generated by the sale of businesses.
maintenance of each insurance companys solvency margin, which might impact their ability to pay dividends to the parent Our principal source of liquidity is cash remittances in the form company.
Our other life and general insurance, and fund of dividends and debt interest receipts from our subsidiaries.
management subsidiaries ability to pay dividends and make The level of dividends is based on two primary factors: the loans to the parent company is similarly restricted by local financial performance and the local solvency and capital corporate or insurance laws and regulations.
In all jurisdictions, requirements of our individual business units.
when paying dividends, the relevant subsidiary must take into The table below shows liquid resources provided to Group account its capital position and must set the level of dividend to Centre during the year.
Cash remittances include amounts maintain sufficient capital to meet minimum solvency received from UKGI in February 2016 in respect of 2015 activity: requirements and any additional target capital expected by local regulators.
We do not believe that the legal and regulatory Amounts received in respect of 2015 activity m restrictions constitute a material limitation on the ability of our UK & Ireland life 667 France 252 businesses to meet their obligations or to pay dividends to the Poland 81 parent company, Aviva plc.
Italy 45 The Group has received proceeds on completion of the Spain 49 Other Europe 4 disposals as disclosed in IFRS Financial statements note 3 1 Canada 6 Subsidiaries.
Asia 21 2 Aviva plc maintains two 2 billion commercial paper Other 24 programmes, one of which is guaranteed by Aviva Insurance 1,149 3 Limited, which allow debt to be issued in a range of currencies.
UK & Ireland general insurance & health 358 At 31 December 2015, outstanding debt issued under the Total 1,507 unguaranteed programme was 485 million 2014: 516 1 CAD$230 million in respect of 2015 activity has been retained at the Canadian holding company in order to part-fund the RBC General Insurance Company acquisition.
No commercial paper has been issued under the 2 Other includes Aviva Investors and Group Reinsurance.
More details of 3 Cash remittances include amounts of 351 million received from UKGI in February 2016 in respect of 2015 activity.
movements in debt can be found in the Management of debt section.
Excess centre cash flow represents cash remitted by business Aviva plc has also issued longer-term debt under a euro units to the Group centre less central operating expenses and Medium Term Note EMTN programme.
Debt issued under this debt financing costs.
It is an important measure of the cash that programme may be senior debt or regulatory qualifying debt is available to pay dividends, reduce debt, pay exceptional and may have a fixed or floating interest rate.
At 31 December charges or invest back into our business units.
It does not 2015, the outstanding debt including equity accounted tier 1 include non-operating cash movements such as disposal notes issued under this programme was 3,838 million 2014: proceeds or capital injections.
2015 2014 Application of funds m m We use funds to pay dividends to our shareholders, to service 1 Dividends received 1,378 1,412 our debt and to pay our central Group cash flows.
Internal interest received 129 19 Cash remitted to Group 1,507 1,431 In 2015, total cash paid by the Company as ordinary and External interest paid 554 425 preference dividends and coupon payments on the direct capital Internal interest paid 138 170 instrument and tier 1 notes amounted to 724 million, Central spend 252 173 2 Other operating cash flows 136 29 compared with 554 million in 2014.
3 In 2015, our total interest costs on central borrowings were Excess centre cash flow 699 692 350 million.
This compared with 310 million of interest paid 1 This excludes a 150 million dividend paid by Friends Life Holdings prior to the acquisition.
2 Other operating cash flows include central investment income and group tax relief payments and other financial on central borrowings in 2014.
Total corporate centre expenses cash flows previously reported under central spend.
in 2015 were 180 million compared with 132 million in 2014.
3 Before non-operating items and capital injections.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 323 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 323 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued An additional application of our funds is the acquisition of Year ended 31 December 2014 Net cash from operating activities businesses.
In 2015, cash received in the acquisition of Total net cash from operating activities continuing operations subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates from continuing decreased by 2,643 million to a 544 million outflow in 2014 operations net of cash paid amounted to 7,783 million, 2013: 2,099 million inflow.
The net operating cash outflow compared with cash paid of 79 million in 2014. reflects a number of factors, including the level of premium income, payments of claims, creditors and surrenders and Capital injections purchases and sales of operating assets including financial We make capital injections into our businesses where necessary investments.
It also includes changes in the size and value of to ensure that they meet their local solvency requirements and consolidated cash investment funds and changes in the Groups also to support development of their operations.
Capital is participation in these funds.
provided either by equity or subordinated debt, where such debt is recognised as capital by the regulator.
Each capital Net cash from investing activities injection is subject to central review and needs to meet our Net cash used in investing activities continuing operations required internal rates of return.
To the extent that capital decreased by 562 million to 228 million outflow 2013: 334 injections are provided or funded by regulated entities we million inflow.
The decrease in cash is mainly due to lower consider the regulatory capital impact of the capital injection.
inflows from disposals and higher purchases of property and Otherwise our ability to make capital injections into our equipment.
businesses is not materially limited by applicable legal and regulatory restrictions.
Total capital injections into the business Net cash outflow on financing activities units were 469 million and 567 million in 2015 and 2014 Net cash used in financing activities continuing operations respectively.
Payments during the year include capitalisation of increased by 407 million to an outflow of 1,955 million the Groups internal reinsurance vehicle and other restructuring 2013: 1,548 million outflow.
The increase is mainly due to activity.
the redemption of a direct capital instrument.
Consolidated cash flows Net cash and cash equivalents The cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at banks and in At 31 December 2014, total consolidated net cash and cash hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other equivalents, net of bank overdrafts, amounted to 22,564 short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible million, a decrease of 3,425 million over 25,989 million in to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an 2013. insignificant risk of change in value.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash Currency equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which are included in Our exposures to movements in exchange rates and the payables and other financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
management of these exposures is detailed in Performance review Financial and operating performance Exchange rate Year ended 31 December 2015 fluctuations.
Net cash from operating activities Total net cash from operating activities continuing operations Regulatory capital position increased by 5,299 million to a 4,755 million inflow in 2015 Under the Solvency I regime effective until 31 December 2015, 2014: 544 million outflow.
The increase mainly reflects net individual regulated subsidiaries measure and report solvency cash inflows arising from purchases and sales of operating based on applicable local regulations, including in the UK the assets including financial investments.
regulations established by the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA.
These measures are also consolidated under the Net cash from investing activities European Insurance Groups Directive IGD to calculate Net cash from investing activities continuing operations was regulatory capital adequacy at an aggregate Group level, where 7,641 million inflow 2014: 228 million outflow.
The increase Aviva has a regulatory obligation to have a positive position at of 7,869 million is mainly due to cash balances brought into all times.
the Group following the acquisition of Friends Life.
This measure represents the excess of the aggregate value of regulatory capital employed in our business over the aggregate Net cash outflow on financing activities minimum solvency requirements imposed by local regulators, Net cash used in financing activities continuing operations excluding the surplus held in the UK and Ireland with-profit life decreased by 590 million to an outflow of 1,365 million funds.
The minimum solvency requirement for our European 2014: 1,955 million outflow.
The decrease is mainly due to businesses is based on the Solvency I Directive.
In broad terms, the redemption of a direct capital instrument in 2014. for EU operations, this is set at 4% and 1% of non-linked and unit-linked life reserves respectively and for our general Net cash and cash equivalents At 31 December 2015, total consolidated net cash and cash insurance portfolio of business is the higher of 18% of gross equivalents, net of bank overdrafts, amounted to 33,170 premiums or 26% of gross claims, in both cases adjusted to million, an increase of 10,606 million over 22,564 million in reflect the level of reinsurance recoveries.
Canada a risk charge on assets and liabilities approach is used.
From 1 January 2016 EU-based insurance groups are no longer required to disclose their solvency position under the European Insurance Groups Directive, as the regulatory framework has been replaced by the new Solvency II regime.
As such, after 31 December 2015 Aviva Group will no longer disclose its capital solvency surplus under the IGD rules.
324 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 324 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information European Insurance Groups Directive Overview of regulation as it affects our business Our principal insurance and fund management operations are in Other 31 December 31 December UK life funds business 2015 2014 the UK, Europe, Canada and Asia.
We are therefore subject to bn bn bn bn financial services regulation and local regulatory supervision in Insurance Groups Directive IGD all these areas, as individually covered below.
capital resources 11.8 10.8 22.6 14.4 As the Groups parent company is based in the UK, both EU Less: capital resources requirement 11.8 4.8 16.6 11.2 legislation and UK regulatory rules can impact Avivas business Insurance Groups Directive practices worldwide.
Regulators supervising the Group coIGD excess solvency 6.0 6.0 3.2 ordinate on a cross-border basis through a college.
Cover over EU minimum calculated excluding UK The European Union life funds 2.2 times 1.6 times In addition to its UK businesses, Aviva is active in other EU member states through wholly owned subsidiary and joint The IGD regulatory capital solvency surplus has increased by venture companies.
These companies are subject to the laws 2.8 billion since 2014 to 6.0 billion.
The key drivers of the and regulations of the EU member state in which they are increase are the acquisition of Friends Life 1.6 billion, based, but are also affected by higher level EU legislation, which operating profits 1.6 billion and the net issue of hybrid debt will continue to have a significant influence on the legislative 0.4 billion, offset by dividend payments and pension scheme environment in the UK and other EU markets.
The EU operates by promulgating directives that must be The key movements over the period are set out in the implemented into local national legislation within each EU following table: member country.
These directives can either be framed as minimum or maximum harmonisation for the standards for bn national legislatures to meet.
National governments may not IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2014 3.2 pass laws which fail to meet the standards set out in a directive, Acquisition of Friends Life 1.6 but are generally free to impose legal requirements which go Operating profits net of integration and restructuring costs 1.6 1 beyond those required other than where a directive on a Net hybrid debt issue 0.4 Dividends and appropriations maximum harmonisation basis applies.
Even greater detail may 0.3 Pension scheme funding 0.2 be imposed through the rules and regulations of national 2 Outward reinsurance of latent reserves 0.2 regulators and, for financial services businesses these rules can Increase in capital resources requirement 0.1 be extensive.
Other regulatory adjustments 0.4 The EU may also impose requirements directly on countries Estimated IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2015 6.0 through regulation.
EU financial services regulation is based on 1 Net hybrid debt issue includes 1 billion benefit of two new Tier 2 subordinated debt instruments issued on 4 the principle of home country control, which makes the home June 2015: offset by 0.6 billion derecognition of two instruments redeemed in the second half of 2015. country regulator responsible for monitoring compliance with all 2 Outward quota share reinsurance agreement completed in 2015 in Aviva Insurance Limited AIL.
Capital commitments Key directives of particular relevance to the financial services Contractual commitments for acquisitions or capital industry, and so to Avivas businesses in the EU include: expenditures of investment property, property and equipment European System for Financial Supervision and intangible assets, which have not been recognised in our The European System for Financial Supervision comprises European consolidated financial statements, are as follows: Supervisory Authorities, including the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority EIOPA.
Its aims include achieving 2015 2014 2013 m m m consistent regulation and supervision within the European Union.
Investment property 71 97 3 In this respect it is able to issue supervisory guidelines on a comply Property and equipment 61 8 24 Other investment vehicles 202 or explain basis to National Competent Authorities and where European Directives provide Delegated Acts, it may propose Total 334 105 27 Regulatory Technical Standards to the Commission.
Contractual obligations for future repairs and maintenance on Third Life and Non-Life Directives investment properties are nil 2014: nil, 2013: nil.
We have These directives implemented the home country control capital commitments to joint ventures and associates of 62 principle for life and non-life insurance business in the midmillion 2014: 91 million, 2013: 145 million.
These 1990s and placed the responsibility for such issues as solvency, commitments are expected to be funded through operational actuarial reserves, investment of assets, and certain governance cash flow without recourse to core structural borrowings.
issues on the home country regulator.
Most companies licensed to conduct insurance business in one member state may rely on Regulation their home country regulation to passport into all other Compliance member states to conduct business without having to be In both our insurance and fund management businesses, separately licensed in each.
The general exception is selling matters may arise as a result of industry-wide issues, inspection activity which continues to be regulated by the state in which visits or other regulatory activity, requiring discussion and the sale takes place.
The Group needs to ensure that procedures are in place to address any regulatory concerns, Reinsurance Directive and that such procedures are properly planned, managed and Adopted on 16 November 2005, this directive requires that all resourced.
Corrective action is undertaken, when necessary, reinsurance undertakings be authorised in their home member with progress reported to relevant regulatory bodies in a timely state.
To obtain that authorisation, they need to meet strict manner.
requirements, but are then free to operate anywhere in the EU through the single market passport process.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 325 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 325 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued Insurance Groups Directive IGD Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MIFID2 The IGD required member states to introduce the following MIFID2, which superseded the earlier Investment Services measures to strengthen supervision of insurance companies Directive, builds on the home country control principle, which are part of a group: extending the range of core investment services and activities An adjustment margin to the solvency calculation in relation that may be passported from one member state to another, to participating interests in other insurance undertakings in clarifying the allocation of responsibilities between home and order to eliminate double-gearing the use of the same host country jurisdictions, and introducing greater regulatory capital in more than one entity of a group.
harmonisation governing the organisation and conduct of An additional parent undertaking solvency margin calculation business of investment firms.
analogous to the adjusted margin test referred to above, to be Systemic Risk applied at the level of the parent undertaking.
In July 2013, the Financial Stability Board FSB designated nine The introduction of solo supervision requirements, including rules insurance groups, including Aviva as Global Systemically as to internal control within the insurance undertaking regarding Important Insurers G-SIIs.
The designation is reviewed on an the production of information relevant to supplementary annual basis, with the FSB re-affirming Aviva as a G-SII in supervision, the exchange of information within the Group and November 2015.
The International Association of Insurance the supervision of intra-group transactions.
Supervisors IAIS has published policy measures that apply to Further provisions aimed at ensuring co-operation between G-SIIs.
The policy measures include enhanced supervision, competent regulatory authorities of member states.
recovery and resolution planning, the preparation of systemic risk management and liquidity risk management plans.
The Since 31 December 2006, the Group capital resources policy measures also include higher loss absorbency requirement the parent undertaking solvency calculation requirements HLA.
In the absence of a global capital mentioned above has been a hard test i. e. it constitutes framework for insurers, the IAIS has developed a Basic Capital a requirement to maintain the Group capital resources, rather Requirement BCR to provide a comparable foundation for the than simply to make the calculation for UK-based companies application of HLA to G-SIIs.
The IAIS plans that its approach to operating under PRA rules.
HLA will be applicable to G-SIIs from 2019.
From 1 January 2016 EU-based insurance groups are no longer required to disclose their solvency position under the Insurance Capital Standard ICS European Insurance Groups Directive, as the regulatory The Financial Stability Board FSB has stated that a sound framework has been replaced by the new Solvency II regime.
As capital and supervisory framework for the insurance sector is such, after 31 December 2015 Aviva Group will no longer essential for supporting financial stability.
In this respect the IAIS disclose its capital solvency surplus under the IGD rules.
will develop a work plan to develop a comprehensive, groupwide supervisory and regulatory framework for Internationally Solvency II Active Insurance Groups IAIGs, including a quantitative capital The Solvency II Directive which governs insurance industry standard.
The ICS will be incorporated into the global regulation and prudential capital requirements within the framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance European Union, including associated Implementing Technical groups ComFrame that the IAIS is developing.
The IAIS plans to Standards and guidelines became effective from 1 January develop the ICS by 2016 for adoption by the IAIS in 2019 along 2016.
This replaces the directives listed above Third Life and with the rest of ComFrame.
Non Life Directives, Reinsurance Directive and Insurance Groups Directive.
Solvency II is a harmonised European prudential Future EU developments framework that reflects risk management practices to define There are a number of European dossiers that are expected to required capital and manage risk.
The framework has three continue to progress during 2016, including Packaged Retail main pillars: and Insurance-based Investment Products PRIIPs that will Pillar 1 consists of the quantitative requirements for example introduce common product disclosure standards, the Insurance the amount of capital an insurer should hold : Distribution Directive IDD that will introduce new standards for Pillar 2 sets out requirements for the governance and risk insurance distribution and MIFID2 II that introduces new management of insurers, as well as their supervision: and conduct and market transparency requirements.
Pillar 3 focuses on disclosure and transparency requirements.
United Kingdom Distance Marketing Directive The regulatory structure Under the Distance Marketing Directive, EU member states are On 1 April 2013 the Financial Services Authority was replaced by required to implement a framework of rules and guidance in the Prudential Regulation Authority the PRA and the Financial order to protect consumers by: Conduct Authority the FCA.
setting minimum standards for information that must be The PRA is currently a subsidiary of the Bank of England and provided to consumers before entering into a financial services is responsible for the micro-prudential regulation of banks, contract by distance means: and building societies, credit unions, insurers and major investment for certain products and services, giving a cooling-off period in firms.
The PRA has two statutory objectives: which a consumer may cancel a contract without penalty.
to promote the safety and soundness of regulated firms: and Insurance Mediation Directive in the case of insurers, to contribute to securing an This requires EU member states to establish a framework to: appropriate degree of protection for policyholders.
ensure that insurance and reinsurance intermediaries have been registered on the basis of a minimum set of The FCA is a company limited by guarantee, accountable to the UK Treasury, and through the Treasury, to the UK Parliament.
It professional and financial requirements: is operationally independent of government and entirely funded ensure that registered intermediaries will be able to operate by the firms it regulates.
The FCAs strategic objective as set out in other member states by availing themselves of the in the Financial Services Act 2012 is to ensure that markets freedom to provide services or by establishing a branch: and function well and it is responsible for the conduct regulation impose requirements on insurance intermediaries to provide of all financial services firms including those prudentially specified minimum information to potential customers.
326 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 326 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information regulated by the PRA, such as insurers.
In addition, the FCA Enhanced group-wide supervision: and prudentially regulates those financial services firms not Higher loss absorbency requirements HLA.
supervised by the PRA, including most asset managers.
The FCA has three operational objectives: The enhanced group-wide supervision of G-SIIs introduces more securing an appropriate degree of protection for consumers: tailored regulation, greater supervisory resources and more protecting and enhancing the integrity of the UK financial thorough use of existing supervisory tools compared to the system: and supervision of non-systemically important insurers.
For G-SIIs, promoting effective competition in the interests of consumers the group-wide supervisor has specific powers over holding in the markets for financial services.
companies to ensure that a direct approach to group-wide supervision can be applied.
In addition, other involved Within their respective jurisdictions, the PRA and FCA have supervisors may have direct or indirect powers over holding authority to make rules and issue guidance, taking into account companies in their jurisdiction.
relevant EU directives, impacting individuals and firms UK regulated entities within Aviva plc authorised to conduct regulated activities Authorised Persons and Authorised Firms.
DUAL REGULATED SOLO REGULATED Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA Aviva Annuity UK Ltd Aviva Equity Release UK Ltd no person may carry on, or purport to carry on, a regulated Aviva Insurance Ltd Aviva Health UK Ltd activity by way of business in the UK unless he is an Authorised Aviva International Insurance Ltd Aviva Insurance Services UK Ltd Person or an exempt person.
A firm granted permission to carry Aviva Investors Pensions Ltd Aviva Investors Global Services Ltd on regulated activities becomes an Authorised Person for the Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd Aviva Investors UK Fund Services Ltd purposes of FSMA.
Regulated activities are prescribed in the Friends Annuities Ltd Aviva Investors UK Funds Ltd FSMA Regulated Activities Order 2001 and include banking, insurance and investment business, stakeholder pension Friends Life and Pensions Ltd Aviva Life International Ltd schemes, insurance mediation and certain mortgage mediation Friends Life FPLMA Ltd Aviva Life Services UK Ltd and lending activities.
Friends Life Ltd Aviva Pension Trustees UK Ltd Authorised Firms must at all times meet specified threshold Gresham Insurance Company Ltd Aviva Wrap UK Ltd conditions, including possession of adequate resources for the The Ocean Marine Insurance Bankhall PMS Ltd carrying on of their business, and being fit and proper to Company Ltd conduct that business, having regard to all the circumstances.
Friends Life Funds Ltd Authorised Firms must also operate in accordance with the Friends Life Investment Solutions Ltd FCAs Principles for Business if solo regulated and the PRAs Friends Life Investments Ltd Fundamental Rules and FCAs Principles for Business if dual regulated.
The FCA has 11 high level principles for conducting Friends Life Marketing Ltd financial services business in the UK, including maintenance of Friends Life Services Ltd adequate systems and controls, treating customers fairly, and Friends Provident International Ltd communicating with customers in a manner that is clear, fair Optimum Investment and not misleading.
The PRA has 9 Fundamental Rules including Management Ltd organising and controlling its affairs responsibly and effectively ORN Capital LLP and acting in a prudent manner.
Sesame Ltd The PRA and FCA regulatory regimes are based on the TenetConnect Ltd principle that firms should have effective systems and controls, including robust risk management, which are appropriate to the TenetConnect Services Ltd size, complexity and diversity of their business.
TenetLime Ltd UK Regulation of the Aviva Group Approved persons and controllers A number of the Groups UK subsidiaries are dual regulated From 1 January 2016, the Approved Person regime APER will be directly authorised by both the PRA for prudential regulation replaced with Senior Insurance Managers Regime SIMR for the and the FCA for conduct regulation whilst others are solo UK Solvency II firms.
Although in substance similar to APER, SIMR regulated regulated solely by the FCA for both prudential and will result in a greater transparency with a narrower focus on conduct regulation.
individuals running Solvency II companies.
Aviva plc, although not directly authorised, does come Both the PRA and FCA place great emphasis on the principle within the scope of some regulation as the ultimate insurance of senior management responsibility.
The directors of, and holding company in the Group.
The PRA and FCA have powers senior managers carrying out controlled function roles as under the FS Act in relation to unregulated parent undertakings defined in the PRA and FCA handbooks in, any of the Groups qualifying parent undertakings that control and exert regulated entities are individually registered with either the PRA influence over regulated firms.
The powers include the ability to or FCA under the Approved Person regime, and can be held make directions imposing requirements on parent undertakings, directly accountable to the relevant regulator for control failings take enforcement action where such directions are breached in those entities.
For solo regulated entities, individuals applying and gather information from parent undertakings.
for approval in a controlled function make their application to As Aviva is a UK-based group, the PRA has the responsibility the FCA and if successful, are registered with the FCA.
For dual of acting as lead regulator i. e. the cross-sector supervisory regulated entities, responsibility for applying the approved coordinator for the Group.
persons regime to controlled functions is split between the PRA Aviva was designated as a Global Systemically Important and FCA, with the PRA having responsibility for all of the Insurer G-SII by the IAIS.
The IAIS has developed a framework Governing Functions.
However, the PRA cannot approve an of policy measures for G-SIIs.
The policy framework includes: application without the consent of the FCA.
Each regulator can The recovery and resolution planning requirements under the apply its Statements of Principles and Code of Practice for Financial Stability Boards Key Attributes of Effective Approved Persons to the conduct expected of approved Resolution Regimes: persons, and each can discipline an approved person who has Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 327 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 327 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued breached a statement of principle, regardless of which regulator The PRAs COBS rule book is limited to with-profits business gave approval.
and linked long-term insurance business as these classes of A number of senior managers at Group are registered as business are regulated by both the PRA and FCA.
For withApproved Persons with either the PRA or FCA for the regulated profits business the FCA is concerned with ensuring fairness subsidiaries, even though they are neither directors nor senior between policyholders and shareholders whilst the PRA has managers of these firms.
This recognises that these managers ultimate responsibility in respect of decisions which have exert significant influence over the regulated subsidiaries, material consequences for both affordability and fairness.
For because they are responsible for key parts of the Groups linked long-term business, the FCA is concerned with ensuring control framework on which the regulated subsidiaries place benefits are determined by reference to an approved index, reliance.
whilst the PRA is concerned with linked assets being capable of The PRA and FCA regulate from a legal entity perspective, being realised in time to meet obligations to policyholders and even though Aviva tends to operate by business unit.
However, the matching of linked assets with linked liabilities.
both regulators expect that Avivas regulated subsidiaries will Capital and solvency rules for insurers operate within an overall framework of Group governance and The PRA rules require that a UK insurer including those within controls.
PRA and FCA rules expressly provide that any systems the Group must hold capital resources equal to at least the and controls which operate on a Group basis will be taken into Minimum Capital Requirement MCR.
Insurers with with-profits account in determining the adequacy of a regulated subsidiarys liabilities of more than 500 million which is the case with systems and controls.
The robustness of these Group controls is Avivas with-profits funds must hold capital equal to the higher therefore subject to scrutiny and challenge by both regulators.
of MCR and the Enhanced Capital Requirement ECR.
The ECR PRA and FCA rules regulate the acquisition and increase of is intended to provide a more risk responsive and realistic control over Authorised Firms.
Under FSMA, any person measure of a with-profits insurers capital requirements, proposing to acquire control of, or increase control over certain whereas the MCR is broadly equivalent to the previous required thresholds of, an Authorised Firm must first obtain the consent minimum margin, and satisfies the minimum EU standards.
The Authorised Firm must also Determination of the ECR involves the comparison of two inform the appropriate regulator of any such proposed separate measurements of the Authorised Firms financial acquisition or increase.
In considering whether to grant or resources requirements, which the PRA refers to as the twin withhold its approval of the acquisition or increase of control, peaks approach.
The two separate peaks are: the appropriate regulator must be satisfied both that the the requirement comprised by the mathematical reserves plus acquirer is a fit and proper person and that the interests of the long term insurance capital requirement the LTICR, consumers would not be threatened by this acquisition or together known as the regulatory peak: and increase of control.
a calculation of the realistic present value of the insurers Control over a UK Authorised Firm is acquired if the expected future contractual liabilities together with projected acquirer: fair discretionary bonuses to policyholders, plus a risk capital holds 10% or 20% if the Authorised Firm is an insurance margin, together known as the realistic peak.
intermediary or more of the shares, or voting power, in that firm, or a parent undertaking of the firm: or All UK insurers must also carry out an Individual Capital is able to exercise significant influence over the management Assessment ICA to calculate the amount of capital needed to of the firm by virtue of the acquirers shares or voting power back their business.
If the PRA decides that the final ICA amount in that company or a parent undertaking of the firm.
is insufficient, it may draw up its own Individual Capital Guidance ICG for the firm, which can be imposed as a Increases in control require the consent of the appropriate requirement on the scope of the Authorised Firms permission.
regulator when they reach thresholds of 20%, 30% and 50% From 1 January 2016, Aviva is subject to the new Solvency II of the shares or voting power of the firm or its parent.
In order to determine whether a person or a group of persons is a controller for the purposes of FSMA, the holdings Day-to-day supervision shares or voting rights of the person and any other person Both the PRA and FCA take a risk-based approach to acting in concert, if any, are aggregated.
supervision, with the PRA focusing on those issues and authorised firms posing the greatest risk to the stability of the Conduct of business rules UK financial system and policyholders, and the FCA conducting The FCAs Conduct of Business COBS and Insurance: Conduct in-depth structured supervision work with those firms with the of Business ICOBS Rules apply to every Authorised Firm potential to cause the greatest risk to its objectives.
Given our carrying on relevant regulated activities, and regulate the daysize and our share of the UK retail market, a major issue within to-day conduct of business standards to be observed by all our business which causes concern for the regulators may have Authorised Persons in carrying out regulated activities.
a significant impact on these objectives.
The COBS and ICOBS Rules are principle based, and the Both regulators therefore maintain proactive engagement scope and range of obligations imposed on an Authorised Firm with us, with day-to-day supervision of Aviva conducted by will vary according to the scope of its business and range of the dedicated teams within the PRA and FCA.
In practice, this Authorised Firms clients.
Generally speaking, however, the means that a wide range of Group and UK business unit senior obligations imposed on an Authorised Firm by the COBS and managers have regular scheduled meetings with the UK ICOBS Rules will include the need to classify its clients according regulators, and other meetings and discussions on specific issues to their level of sophistication, provide them with information take place as the need occurs.
This adds up to frequent about the Authorised Firm, meet certain standards of product regulatory interaction at business unit and Group level, and the disclosures including fee and remuneration arrangements, sharing of detailed information about the Group.
ensure that promotional material which it produces is clear, fair Areas of potential risk or weakness where the regulators and not misleading, assess suitability when advising on certain particularly require Aviva to focus attention are formally set out products, control the range and scope of advice given, manage in a Risk Mitigation Plan RMP from the FCA and key actions conflicts of interest, report appropriately to its clients and from the PRA.
provide certain protections in relation to client assets.
328 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 328 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information All open actions are progressed in accordance with Restrictions on business UK regulatory rules restrict an insurance company from carrying timescales agreed with the PRA and FCA.
on any commercial business other than insurance business and Outside of the UK, each Aviva business is regulated by its activities directly arising from that business.
Therefore, own national regulator s. However, overseas operations are authorised insurance companies in the Group are bound by this also within the remit of the PRA to the extent that they have an restriction.
interest in the systems and controls by which the Group manages its overseas businesses to mitigate the risk of financial Long-term assets and liabilities shocks arising overseas flowing through to the UK.
Where a UK insurer carries on life insurance business, its longThe PRA monitors the strategy and performance of the term business assets and liabilities i. e. those assets and liabilities Groups international businesses through its programme of relating to life and health insurance policies, must be segregated regular meetings and reviews.
from the assets and liabilities attributable to non-life insurance The UK regulators aim to play a leading role in the business or to shareholders.
Separate accounting and other development of both EU and international regulation.
records must be maintained and a separate fund established to hold all receipts of long-term business.
Intervention and enforcement The extent to which long-term fund assets may be used for The PRA and FCA have extensive powers to investigate and purposes other than long-term business is restricted by the PRA intervene in the affairs of Authorised Firms.
In relation to dual rules.
Only the established surplus, which is the excess of regulated firms, under the terms of a Memorandum of assets over liabilities in the long-term fund as determined by Understanding entered into in April 2013, the PRA and FCA will consult each other before taking enforcement action.
The PRA actuarial investigation, may be transferred so as to be available for other purposes.
Following the transition to Solvency II at 1 has the right to veto certain FCA regulatory actions in relation to dual regulated firms, but the FCA is not required to comply if in January 2016, only the eligible own funds, which are the funds available for covering the regulatory capital requirements of the its opinion it would be incompatible with any EU or other international obligation of the UK.
long-term business, may be transferred so as to be available for other purposes, although a waiver from the PRA is required The regulators enforcement powers, which may be before any transfer is performed.
Restrictions also apply to the exercised against both Authorised Firms and Approved Persons, payment of dividends by the insurance company, as described include public censure, imposition of unlimited fines and, in below.
PRA rules also require insurers to maintain sufficient serious cases, the variation or revocation of permission to carry assets in the separate long-term insurance fund to cover the on regulated activities or of an Approved Persons status.
The actuarially determined value of the insurance liabilities.
FCA may also vary or revoke an Authorised Firms permissions to protect the interests of consumers or potential consumers if the Distribution of profits and with-profits business Authorised Firm has not engaged in regulated activity for 12 For UK authorised life insurers carrying on with-profits business, months, or if it is failing to meet the threshold conditions for such as Aviva Life and Pensions UK Ltd AVLAP, the FCAs authorisation.
The FCA has further powers to obtain injunctions rules require that where a firm decides to make a distribution of against Authorised Persons and to impose or seek restitution surplus from the with-profits fund it must distribute at least the orders where consumers have suffered loss.
required percentage as defined in the FCA Handbook of the In addition to applying sanctions for market abuse, the FCA total amount distributed to policyholders, with the balance of has the power to prosecute criminal offences arising under the total amount to be distributed being payable to the FSMA and insider dealing under Part V of the Criminal Justice shareholders.
Act 1993, and breaches of money laundering regulations.
The In addition, at least once a year the AVLAP Board must FCAs stated policy is to pursue criminal prosecution in all consider whether a distribution is required to be made from the appropriate cases.
Old with-profits sub-fund Old WPSF inherited estate.
Such a The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS distribution will ordinarily be required if the level of the inherited The FSCS is intended to compensate individuals and small estate of the Old WPSF exceeds the Required Distribution businesses for claims against an Authorised Firm where the Threshold as described in the Reattribution Scheme of Transfer Authorised Firm is unable or unlikely to be able to meet those effective from 1 October 2009 The Scheme on any such claims generally, when it is insolvent or has gone out of annual investigation from the third such investigation after 1 business.
The FSCS levy is to split into twelve broad classes: October 2009.
The Scheme permits distributions from the Old the deposits class: WPSF inherited estate earlier than required by The Scheme the life and pensions provision class: where the AVLAP Board determines that a distribution is the general insurance provision class: necessary for the fair treatment of Old WPSF customers.
The the investment provision class: AVLAP Board set aside 89 million as at 31 December 2014 to the life and pensions intermediation class: be applied to enhance the with-profits benefits of Old WPSF the home finance intermediation class: customers as they leave with effect from 1 July 2014.
An the investment intermediation class: Annual investigation may also be carried out to determine if a the general insurance intermediation class: Release to shareholders can be made from the RIEESA.
Releases the deposit acceptors contribution class: can only be made: the insurers life contribution class: if the Reattributed Inherited Estate exceeds the Permitted the insurers general contribution class: and Release Threshold as defined in the Scheme: the home finance providers and administrators contribution the AVLAP Board based on appropriate actuarial advice class.
including that of the With-Profits Actuary are of the opinion that the Release will not give rise to a significant risk that the The permissions held by each firm determine into which class, or New with-profits sub-fund including the RIEESA would be classes, it falls.
unable to meet its obligations to policyholders and its capital requirements or the Old WPSF would be unable to meet its obligations to policyholders: and Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 329 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 329 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued following the sixth annual investigation after 1 October 2009 Canada or later investigation and provided that investigation and We write property and casualty business in Canada via a investigations made in the previous 2 years determined that number of wholly owned companies.
the Reattributed Inherited Estate exceeded the Permitted Insurance business in Canada is regulated federally by the Release Threshold.
Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions OSFI for prudential supervision i. e. capital adequacy, solvency, etc.
OSFI The AVLAP Board set aside 189 million as at 31 December derives its powers from the federal Insurance Companies Act 2014 to enhance the with-profits benefits for customers as they Canada which governs the structure and operation of federally leave the AVLAP With-Profits Sub Fund AVLAP WPSF, with incorporated insurance companies.
The capital adequacy of insurance companies is monitored under the Minimum Capital Test MCT, a risk-based Reporting requirements framework allowing for capital to be assessed on the basis of an PRA rules require insurance companies to submit annually their individual companys risk profile taking account of the audited annual accounts, statements of financial position and investments held and insurance business being written.
life insurers annual reports from the actuary performing the Companies have their own internal MCT target that is actuarial function with the regulator.
There is also a requirement communicated to OSFI, which is set to ensure that they to report the annual solvency position of the insurance maintain capital in excess of 150% of the OSFI minimum companys ultimate parent.
The PRA uses the annual return to monitor the solvency i. e. Market conduct regulation is conducted at the provincial the ability to meet current and future obligations such as claims level through ten independent provincial regulators.
Those payments to policyholders of the insurance company.
For regulators derive their powers from insurance acts enacted by general insurance business, the return is also used to assess provincial legislatures.
Market conduct regulation focuses on retrospectively the adequacy of the companys claims provisions.
personal lines products and business practices, including rating The directors of an insurance company are required to sign a formulas, underwriting and policy terms and conditions.
certificate, which includes a statement as to whether they have Commercial lines insurance is not subject to as extensive complied in all material respects with the requirements of Senior regulations.
Management Arrangements, Systems and Controls SYSC, Principles for Businesses PRIN, Interim Prudential Sourcebook Asia for Insurers IPRU INS, General Prudential Sourcebook We operate in Asia through a network of subsidiary companies GENPRU and Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers INSPRU.
The either wholly owned or established as a joint venture with a directors must also certify that the company has completed its local partner.
Our business is predominantly long-term and return to the PRA properly in accordance with the PRAs savings business, with small general insurance and health instructions, and that the directors are satisfied that the operations.
company has complied in all material respects with the There are wholly owned businesses in Singapore and Hong requirements set out in the PRA rules.
During 2015, Aviva also operated businesses in China, Aviva is subject to the new Solvency II regulatory regime.
India, Taiwan, Indonesia and Vietnam which, depending on the nature and extent of the control exerted by Aviva, were UK winding up rules accounted for as joint ventures or associates.
In 2015, following The general insolvency laws and regulations applicable to UK the acquisition of the Friends Life Group, one of its subsidiaries, companies are modified in certain respects in relation to UK Friends Provident International Limited which is domiciled in the insurance companies where direct insurance claims will have Isle of Man also operates in Asia through branches in priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors with the Singapore, Hong Kong and the United Arab Emirates.
exception of preferred creditors, including reinsurance The Asia area is made up of a number of widely differing creditors, on a winding up by the court or a creditors voluntary and independent markets.
The markets tend to be at various winding up of the insurance company.
Furthermore, instead of different stages in their economic and regulatory development making a winding-up order when an insurance company has but each has its own regulatory structures and Aviva must been proved unable to pay its debts, a UK court may reduce the ensure it complies with the local regulation in each of the amount of one or more of the insurance companys contracts countries in which it operates.
on terms and subject to conditions if any which the court Industry regulation typically focuses on financial stability and considers fit.
Where an insurance company is in financial market conduct i. e. minimum capital and the basis for difficulties but not in liquidation, the FSCS may take measures calculating solvency, reserves and policyholder liability.
In many to secure the transfer of all or part of the business to another of the markets, regulators have the power to revoke operating insurance company.
licences, regulate shareholder structures and the participation in FSMA provides further protection to policyholders of and the payment of dividends.
Asia markets are moving quickly insurance companies effecting or carrying out contracts of longto modernise insurance regulation with an increasing focus on term insurance.
Unless the court orders otherwise, a liquidator governance and conduct risk.
and or administrator must carry on the insurers business so far as it consists of carrying out the insurers contracts of long-term Intellectual property insurance with a view to it being transferred as a going concern Our primary brands the Aviva name and logo are registered to a person who may lawfully carry out those contracts.
In trademarks in the UK and are registered or pending in all other carrying on the business, the liquidator administrator may agree countries where Aviva has operations.
to the variation of any contracts of insurance in existence when Aviva has an active programme of review of marks and the winding-up order is made, but must not effect any new watching for infringements.
There are no material infringements contracts of insurance.
in the UK known to us as at the date of this report, either by the Group or third parties.
330 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 330 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information holdings: ix an increase in technical provisions and capital Risks relating to our business requirements in response to market related stress tests: and x a requirement to hold a larger proportion of liquid assets in order You should carefully review the following risk to offset the impact of a reduction in market liquidity on a factors together with other information contained in companys ability to meet payment obligations.
this Annual Report before making an investment The interdependence of global financial institutions means that the failure of a sufficiently large and influential financial decision relating to our ordinary shares or ADSs.
Our institution could materially disrupt global securities markets or business, financial position, results of our operations clearance and settlement systems in the markets.
This could and cash flow could be materially affected by any of cause severe market decline or volatility.
Such a failure could these risks, the trading price of our ordinary shares also lead to a chain of defaults by counterparties that could or ADSs could decline due to any of these risks and materially adversely affect the Group.
This risk, known as systemic risk, could adversely impact our future product sales investors may lose part or all of their investment.
as a result of reduced confidence in the financial services industry.
It could also adversely impact our results because of Ongoing difficult conditions in the global financial markets market declines and write downs of assets.
and the economy generally may adversely affect our business and results of operations, and these conditions may continue.
As a global business, we are exposed to various local Our results of operations are materially affected by uncertainty political, regulatory and economic conditions, business risks in the worldwide financial markets and macro-economic and challenges which may affect the demand for our conditions generally.
A wide variety of factors, including products and services, the value of our investment portfolios concerns over slowing growth more recently in China, high and the credit quality of local counterparties.
sovereign debt within, and to a lesser degree outside, the We offer our products and services in Europe including the eurozone, the stability and solvency of financial institutions, United Kingdom UK, North America and the Asia Pacific longer-term low interest rates in developed markets, inflationary region through wholly owned and majority owned subsidiaries, threats as well as geopolitical issues in, and emanating from, the joint ventures, companies in which we hold non controlling Middle East, Russia, Ukraine and North Africa, have contributed equity stakes, agents and independent contractors.
Our to increased volatility in the financial markets in recent years and international operations expose us to different local political, have diminished growth expectations for the global economy.
regulatory, business and financial risks and challenges which Global fixed income markets continue to experience periods of may affect the demand for our products and services, the value both volatility and limited market liquidity, which have affected of our investment portfolio, the required levels of capital and a broad range of asset classes and sectors.
surplus, and the credit quality of local counterparties.
These risks Factors relating to general economic conditions such as include, for example, political, social or economic instability in consumer spending, business investment, government countries in which we operate, discriminatory regulation, credit spending, and high sovereign debt levels, exchange rates and risks of our counterparties, lack of local business experience in commodity prices, uncertainty over the United Kingdoms certain markets, risks associated with exposure to insurance continued membership of and influence in the European Union industry insolvencies through policyholder guarantee funds or EU, the volatility and strength of both debt and equity similar mechanisms set up in markets in which we are present markets, and inflation, all affect the profitability of our business.
and, in certain cases, risks associated with the potential In a sustained economic phase of low growth and high public incompatibility with foreign partners, especially in countries in debt, characterised by higher unemployment, lower household which we are conducting business through entities which we do income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment not control.
Some of our international insurance operations are, and lower consumer spending, the demand for financial and and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where insurance products could be adversely affected.
In addition, we these risks are heightened.
Our overall success as a global may experience an elevated incidence of claims or surrenders of business and our results of operations depend, in part, upon our policies or claims of mis selling.
Any potential material adverse ability to succeed in different economic, social and political effect on us will also be dependent upon customer behaviour conditions.
As a result of these market exposures, our financial position Credit risks relating to Avivas business and results of operations may be subject to significant volatility Market developments and government actions regarding the and negative effects, particularly if it is prolonged.
Such effects sovereign debt crisis in Europe, particularly in Greece, Cyprus, may include, inter alia: i a general reduction in business activity Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, could have a material and market volumes which affects fees, commissions and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
margins from customer driven transactions and revenues, and The continued uncertainty over the outcome of various EU and from sales of insurance products: ii market downturns which international financial support programmes, and the possibility are likely to reduce the level and valuations of assets managed that other EU member states may experience similar financial on behalf of clients, thereby reducing asset based and pressures, could further disrupt global markets.
In particular, this performance based fees: iii reduced market liquidity, limiting crisis has disrupted, and could further disrupt, equity and fixed trading and arbitrage opportunities and presenting impediments income markets, and has resulted in volatile bond yields on the for managing risks, impacting both trading income and sovereign debt of EU members.
performance based fees: iv a reduced value in assets held for The issues arising out of the recent sovereign debt crisis may our own account if trading positions fall in value: v increased transcend Europe, cause investors to lose confidence in the impairments and defaults on credit exposures and on trading safety and soundness of European financial institutions and the and investment positions, which losses may be exacerbated by stability of European member economies, and likewise affect UK falling collateral values: vi increased collateral requirements and U. S. based financial institutions, the stability of the global under derivative and other financial instruments: vii increased financial markets and any economic recovery.
We hold costs of hedging against market risks such as equity or interest investments in both UK and non-UK securities.
rate exposure: viii pressure to reduce equity and or debt investments or maintain additional capital in respect of such Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 331 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 331 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued More recently, economic conditions in affected EU member In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit states seem to be stabilising or improving, as evidenced by the risk may be increased when the collateral held by us cannot be stabilisation of credit ratings, particularly in Spain, Portugal and realised or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full Ireland.
However, there can be no assurance that any amount of the loan or other value due.
We also have exposure stabilisation or improvement in economic conditions will to financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt continue or that the risk of default on the sovereign debt of instruments and derivative transactions.
Such losses or certain countries will be reduced, all of which could have a impairments to the carrying value of these assets could material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operations.
If an EU member state were to default on its obligations or The Group has significant holdings of UK sovereign and to seek to leave the eurozone, or if the eurozone were broken corporate debt.
Credit rating agencies have indicated that in the up entirely, the impact on the financial and currency markets event of the UK leaving the EU as a result of the referendum on would be significant and could impact materially all financial UK-EU membership, the credit rating of the UK government institutions, including the Group.
Past political negotiations in could be downgraded.
In the event this occurred it could result the United States over raising the U. S. debt ceiling indicate that in a fall in the price of UK sovereign and corporate debt, the risks associated with record levels of government debt and adversely impacting the Groups solvency, profitability and sovereign debt default and the potential adverse impact on shareholders equity.
global markets which could result from this is not limited to the We use reinsurance and hedging programmes to hedge eurozone.
Such events could adversely affect our business, various risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefit results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
contained in many of our long-term insurance and fund management products.
These programmes cannot eliminate all Credit spread volatility may adversely affect the net of the risks and no assurance can be given as to the extent to unrealised value of our investment portfolio and our results which such programmes will be effective in reducing such risks.
We enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price options, forwards, interest rate and currency swaps, with a variability associated with changes in credit spreads in our number of counterparties.
Our obligations under our fund investment portfolio, which is largely held to maturity.
Although management and life products are not changed by our hedging our financial statements reflect the market value of assets, our activities and we are liable for our obligations even if our priority remains the management of assets and liabilities over derivative counterparties do not pay us.
Defaults by such the longer-term.
Credit spread moves may be caused by counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our changes in the perception of the creditworthiness of a financial condition and results of operations.
company, or from market factors such as the markets risk We are also susceptible to an adverse financial outcome appetite and liquidity.
A widening of credit spreads will from a change in third-party credit standing.
As well as having a generally reduce the value of fixed income securities we hold.
potential impact on asset values and, as a result, our financial Conversely, credit spread tightening will generally increase the condition and results of operations, credit rating movements value of fixed income securities we hold.
It can be difficult to can also impact our solvency position where regulatory capital value certain of our securities if trading becomes less liquid.
requirements are linked to the credit rating of the investments Accordingly, valuations of investments may include assumptions held.
Such movements in the credit standing of third parties or estimates that may have significant period to period changes could impact on the Groups solvency, profitability and that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated shareholders equity.
results of operations or financial condition.
Downturns in the net unrealised value of our investment portfolio may also have a Market risks relating to Avivas business material adverse effect on our regulatory capital surplus.
Changes in interest rates may cause policyholders to surrender their contracts, reduce the value of our investment Losses due to defaults by counterparties, or changing market portfolio and may have an adverse impact on our asset and perceptions as to the risk of default, including potential liability matching, which could adversely affect our results of sovereign debt defaults or restructurings, could adversely operation and financial condition.
affect the value of our investments and reduce our Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including profitability and shareholders equity.
governmental, monetary and tax policies, domestic and We choose to take and manage credit risk through investment international economic and political considerations, inflationary assets partly to increase returns to policyholders whose policies factors, fiscal deficits, trade surpluses or deficits, regulatory the assets back, and partly to optimise the return for requirements and other factors beyond our control.
Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the We have a significant exposure to third parties that owe us market price and cash flow variability of assets and liabilities money, securities or other assets who may not perform under associated with changes in interest rates.
These parties include private sector Some of our products, principally traditional participating and government or government-backed issuers whose debt products, universal life insurance and annuities expose us to the securities we hold in our investment portfolios including risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our spread, or the mortgage-backed, asset-backed, government bonds and other difference between the amounts that we are required to pay types of securities, borrowers under residential and commercial under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn mortgages and other loans, reinsurers to which we have ceded on investments intended to support obligations under the insurance risks, customers, trading counterparties, and contracts.
Our spread is a key component of our net income.
counterparties under swap and other derivative contracts.
We As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be also execute transactions with other counterparties in the forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our commercial and investment banks, hedge funds and other investment return.
Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem investment funds, insurance groups and institutions.
Many of the fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with of our counterparty.
greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, 332 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 332 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information which increases this risk.
Lowering interest crediting or Falls in equity or property prices could have an adverse impact on our investment portfolio and impact on our results policyholder bonus rates can help offset decreases in investment of operations and shareholders equity.
However, our ability to lower these We are subject to equity and property price risk due to holdings rates could be limited by competition or by contractually of equities and investment properties in a variety of locations guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or worldwide.
Downturns in equity markets will depress equity magnitude of changes in asset yields.
As a result, our spread prices and have a negative impact on our capital position in that could decrease or potentially become negative.
Our expectation unrealised losses in our net investment portfolio will increase, for future spreads is an important component in the and our defined benefit pension scheme surplus deficit will amortisation of policy acquisition costs and significantly lower reduce increase as the market value of scheme assets invested in spreads may cause us to accelerate amortisation, thereby equities decreases.
reducing net income in the affected reporting period.
In Downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a addition, during periods of declining interest rates, the material adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our guarantees within existing life insurance and annuity products unit-linked, participating and fund management business.
The may be more attractive to consumers, resulting in increased unit-linked and fund management business depends on fees premium payments on products with flexible premium features, related primarily to the value of assets under management and and a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force would therefore be reduced by declines in equity and property from year to year, during a period when our new investments markets.
Profit could also be reduced as a result of current carry lower returns.
Accordingly, during periods of declining investors withdrawing funds or reducing their rates of on-going interest rates, profitability may suffer as the result of a decrease investment with our fund management companies, or switching in the spread between interest rates credited to policyholders to lower risk funds generating lower income, or as a result of and returns on our investment portfolio.
our fund management companies failing to attract funds from Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect new investors.
Similarly, bonuses credited to participating our profitability.
This could arise as the accommodative policyholders will reduce following declines in equity and monetary policies of central banks, in particular the US Federal property markets and this will generally also lead to reductions Reserve and the Bank of England, are wound down or stopped.
Surrenders of life insurance policies and contracts may increase Downturns in equity markets may also have a material as policyholders seek higher returns and higher guaranteed adverse effect on our regulatory capital surplus as measured minimum returns.
Obtaining cash to satisfy these surrenders under the EU Solvency II Insurance Directive.
may require us to liquidate fixed maturity investments at a time Heightened uncertainty surrounding the UK referendum on when market prices for those assets are depressed which may EU membership and subsequent possible exit may increase result in realised investment losses.
Regardless of whether we market volatility and act as a drag on the relative valuations of realise an investment loss, these cash payments would result in UK equities or other companies making use of the common a decrease in total invested assets, and may decrease our net market from the UK, with a negative impact on insurers, such as income.
Premature withdrawals may also cause us to accelerate the Group, whose assets are exposed to UK equity markets.
It amortisation of policy acquisition costs, which would also may also have an adverse impact on European equity markets reduce our net income.
Our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are We provide certain guarantees within some of our products primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration equity markets.
In volatile or declining equity market conditions, approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability we may need to increase liabilities for future policy benefits and cash flow profile.
However, it may not be possible to hold assets policyholder account balances, negatively affecting net income.
that will provide cash flows to exactly match those relating to For property investment, we are subject to counterparty, policyholder liabilities, in particular in jurisdictions with less valuation and liquidity risks.
These investments may be adversely developed bond markets and in certain markets where affected by weakness in property markets and increased regulated surrender value or maturity values are set with mortgage delinquencies.
We are also subject to property risk reference to the interest rate environment prevailing at the time indirectly in our investments in residential mortgage-backed of policy issue.
This is due to the duration and uncertainty of the securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities and liability cash flows and the lack of sufficient assets of suitable covered bonds.
There is the risk that the underlying collateral duration.
This results in a residual asset liability mismatch risk may fall in value causing the investment in securities to fall in that can be managed but not eliminated.
The markets for these property investments and estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate for instruments can become illiquid, and issues relating to other reasons, such as varying mortality, morbidity or general counterparty credit ratings and other factors may increase insurance claims, and we may be forced to liquidate investments pricing and valuation uncertainties.
We are also indirectly prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the liability.
Such a exposed to property risk through our UK commercial finance loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of lending.
The fall in prices of any such investments due to such operations and financial condition.
risks could adversely affect our results of operations, shareholders equity and financial condition.
Changes in short or long-term inflation may cause policyholders to surrender their contracts, increase the size of Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our claims payments and expenses and reduce the value of our results of operations and financial condition.
our investments, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
We operate internationally and are exposed to foreign currency We are subject to inflation risk through our holdings of fixed exchange risk arising from fluctuations in exchange rates of interest and other investments and as a result of the potential various currencies.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, for the cost of claims and expenses to rise faster than approximately 58% of our premium income from continuing anticipated in our pricing or reserving.
Changes in inflation operations arose in currencies other than sterling, and our net could also affect the value perceived to be offered by our assets were denominated in a variety of currencies, of which the policies and so adversely affect persistency levels.
largest are the euro, sterling and Canadian dollar.
In managing our foreign currency exposures, we do not hedge revenues as Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 333 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 333 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued these are substantially retained locally to support the growth of new client assets on a timely basis, the investment performance the business and meet local regulatory and market of the strategy could be adversely affected.
Nevertheless, the effect of exchange rate sufficient appropriate investment opportunities may be fluctuations on local operating results could lead to significant unavailable is influenced by a number of factors, including fluctuations in our consolidated financial statements upon general market conditions.
This could adversely affect the translation of the results into sterling.
Although we take certain management and incentive fees that we earn on assets under actions to address this risk, foreign currency exchange rate management and our results of operations.
fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively Failure to comply with client contractual requirements and or guidelines could result in damage awards against us and our offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fund management operations and loss of revenues due to fluctuation.
Any adverse foreign currency exchange fluctuation client terminations.
may also have a material adverse effect on our regulatory capital When clients retain us to manage assets on their behalf, we surplus based on the EU Solvency II Insurance Directive.
must comply with contractual obligations and guidelines agreed with such clients in the provision of our services.
A failure to Market fluctuations may cause the value of options and comply with these guidelines or contractual requirements could guarantees embedded in some of our life insurance products result in damage to our reputation or in our clients seeking to to exceed the value of the assets backing their reserves, which could adversely affect our results of operations or recover losses, withdrawing their funds or terminating their financial condition.
contracts, any of which could cause our revenues and earnings As a normal part of their operating activities, various Group to decline.
companies have given guarantees and options, including interest rate and investment return guarantees, in respect of Failure to manage risks in operating securities lending of certain long-term insurance and fund management products.
In Group and third party client assets could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and for our fund providing these guarantees and options, our capital position is management operations lead to a loss of clients and a decline sensitive to fluctuations in financial variables, including foreign in revenues and liquidity.
currency exchange rates, interest rates, property values and In operating securities lending of Group and third party client equity prices.
assets, our fund management operations must manage risks Interest rate guaranteed returns, such as those available on associated with i ensuring that the value of the collateral held guaranteed annuity options GAOs, are sensitive to interest against the securities on loan does not decline in value or rates falling below the guaranteed level.
Other guarantees, such become illiquid and that its nature and value complies with as maturity value guarantees and guarantees in relation to regulatory requirements and investment requirements: ii the minimum rates of return, are sensitive to fluctuations in the potential that a borrower defaults or does not return a loaned investment return below the level assumed when the guarantee security on a timely basis: and iii errors in the settlement of was made.
securities, daily mark-to-market valuations and collateral Periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity collection.
The failure of our fund management controls to markets, increased equity volatility or reduced interest rates mitigate these risks could result in financial losses for us and could result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy third party clients that participate in our securities lending benefits or policyholder account balance liabilities associated programmes.
with such products, resulting in a reduction to net income.
We use reinsurance and derivative instruments to mitigate some of Liquidity risks relating to Avivas business the liability exposure and the volatility of net income associated Adverse capital and credit market conditions may adversely with these liabilities, and while we believe that these and other affect our financial flexibility in addressing liquidity needs, as actions mitigate the risks related to these benefits, we remain well as access to and the cost of capital which could adversely liable for the guaranteed benefit in the event that reinsurers or affect our results of operations or financial condition.
derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay.
At Group level, we need some of our invested assets to be liquid We are also subject to the risk that the cost of hedging to pay our operating expenses, taxes, interest on our debt, these guaranteed minimum benefit increases, resulting in a dividends on our capital stock and to repay maturing debt.
At reduction to net income.
In addition, we are subject to the risk an operational level we also need liquidity and sufficient cash that unanticipated policyholder behaviour or mortality, flow sources to meet insurance claims.
Without sufficient combined with adverse market events, produces economic liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations and our losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques business would suffer.
The principal sources of our liquidity are employed.
These, individually or collectively, may have a material insurance premiums, annuity considerations, deposit funds and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting or liquidity.
mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash.
Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of Asset management risks relating to Avivas business short and long-term instruments, including repurchase Our fund management business may be affected by the poor agreements, commercial paper, medium and long-term debt, investment performance of the funds we manage junior subordinated debt, securities, capital securities and Poor investment returns in our investment management stockholders equity.
business, due either to general market conditions or We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity such as underperformance relative to competitors or to benchmarks by commercial mortgages, real estate, privately placed fixedfunds or accounts that we manage, may adversely affect our maturity securities, and unlisted equities.
The valuations of such ability to retain existing assets and to attract new clients or assets are based on inputs which are not directly observable in additional assets from existing clients.
The ability of our the market.
The inputs used reflect the assumptions that we investment team to deliver strong investment performance consider market participants would normally use based on a depends in large part on our ability to identify appropriate combination of independent third party evidence and internally investment opportunities in which to invest client assets.
If the developed models, intended to be calibrated to market investment team for any of our strategies is unable to identify observable data where possible.
These are known as Level 3 sufficient appropriate investment opportunities for existing and 334 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 334 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information asset classes in our fair value hierarchy and represented 16% of The use of inaccurate assumptions in pricing and reserving for insurance business may have an adverse effect on our total financial assets and investment properties held at fair value business profitability.
As has been the case across the Our life insurance companies are required to make a number of industry, even some higher-quality assets have been more assumptions in relation to the business written, including the illiquid as a result of the recent challenging market conditions.
mortality and morbidity rates of our customers the proportion The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of of customers dying or falling sick or recovering from illness, the investments, our investments in the asset classes described in development of interest rates, persistency rates the proportion the paragraph above and, at times, our higher-quality, generally of customers retaining existing policies and continuing to pay liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current premiums up to their maturity dates, the exercise by customers market price for the asset.
If we were forced to sell certain of of options included within their policies and future levels of our assets in the current market, there can be no certainty that expenses.
By their nature, these assumptions may prove to be we would be able to sell them for the prices at which we have incorrect.
recorded them and we may be forced to sell them at When establishing their liabilities, our life insurance significantly lower prices.
companies allow for changes in the assumptions made, monitor We may refinance existing financing arrangements and may, their experience against the actuarial assumptions used and in exceptional circumstances, need to seek additional financing assess the information gathered to refine their long-term to supplement liquidity available from internal resources.
The assumptions, together with taking actual claims experience into availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of account.
However, it is not possible to determine precisely the factors such as market conditions, the general availability of total amounts that will ultimately be paid under the policies credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services written by the business as amounts may vary from estimates.
industry and the markets perception of our financial condition.
Changes in assumptions may also lead to changes in the level of Disruptions and uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit capital required to be maintained, meaning that we may need markets, as has been experienced in the last few years, in to increase the amount of our reserves.
This could have a particular throughout the eurozone, may exert downward material adverse impact on our value, the results of our pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain operations and financial condition.
issuers and, if access to liquidity is constrained for a prolonged Additionally, our management of the general insurance period of time, may limit our access to capital required to business requires the general insurance companies to make a operate and grow our business at a sustainable cost.
Adverse number of assumptions in relation to the business written.
market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely These assumptions include the costs of writing the business and manner, maturing debt, satisfy statutory capital requirements settling claims, and the frequency and severity of claims.
The and generate fee income and market related revenue to meet assumptions may turn out to be incorrect, thereby adversely liquidity needs.
Additionally, man-made disasters, As such, we may be forced to reduce our dividends, defer including accidents and intentional events, are particularly interest payments or redemptions, delay raising capital, issue difficult to predict with a high degree of accuracy.
These would shorter-term securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive also have an adverse impact on our profit due to higher than cost of capital which could decrease profitability and reduce expected claims.
Our results of operations, financial condition Furthermore, outstanding claims provisions for the general and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.
insurance business are based on the best-estimate ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at a given date, whether As a holding company, Aviva plc is dependent over the reported or not, together with related claims handling costs.
medium to long-term on its operating subsidiaries to cover operating expenses and dividend payments.
Any provisions for re-opened claims are also included.
A range As a holding company, Aviva plc has no substantial operations of methods, including stochastic projections, may be used to of its own.
Its principal sources of funding are dividends from determine these provisions.
Underlying these methods are a subsidiaries, shareholder-backed funds and any amounts that number of explicit or implicit assumptions relating to the may be raised through the issuance of debt and commercial expected settlement amount and settlement pattern of claims.
Our insurance and fund management operations are If the assumptions underlying the reserving basis were to generally conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries.
prove incorrect, we might have to increase the amount of the Certain subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions that may limit general insurance provisions, which would adversely impact our the payment of dividends and could prompt a decision to inject financial condition or results of operations.
capital, which in some more adverse circumstances and over the We have a significant exposure to annuity business and a longer-term could limit our ability to pay dividends to significant life insurance risk is associated with longevity.
This could have a material adverse impact on our Longevity statistics are monitored in detail, compared with business.
emerging industry trends, and the results are used to inform both the reserving and pricing of annuities.
It is likely that Insurance risks relating to Avivas business uncertainty will remain in the development of future longevity The cyclical nature of the insurance industry may cause fluctuations in our results.
that cannot be mitigated.
Historically, the insurance industry has been cyclical and A strengthening in the longevity assumption, either to operating results of insurers have fluctuated because of volatile reflect changes in the underlying life expectancy for example, as and sometimes unpredictable developments, many of which are a result of healthier lifestyles, improved screening programmes beyond the direct control of any insurer.
Although we have a or increased availability or effectiveness of medical treatments geographically diverse group of businesses providing a wide of the population or of our particular portfolio used to calculate range of products, we expect to experience the effects of this our long-term business liabilities, would result in an increase in cyclical nature, including changes in sales and premium levels.
these reserves and reduce shareholders equity.
The unpredictability and competitive nature of the general insurance business has contributed historically to significant quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year fluctuations in underwriting results and net earnings.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 335 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 335 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued If our business does not perform well or if actual experience event and the severity of the event.
Most catastrophes are versus management estimates used in valuing and amortising restricted to small geographic areas: however, pandemics, Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC and Acquired value of inhurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may force business AVIF varies significantly, we may be produce significant damage in larger areas, especially those that required to accelerate the amortisation and or impair the are heavily populated.
Catastrophic events could also harm the DAC and AVIF which could adversely affect the results of financial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the operations or financial condition.
probability of default on reinsurance recoveries and could also We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and reduce our ability to write new business.
Those costs that vary with and are driven by pandemics, natural disasters, terrorism and fires could disrupt the production of new and renewal business are deferred and our operations and result in significant loss of property, key referred to as DAC.
The recovery of DAC is dependent upon the personnel and information about our clients and our business if future profitability of the related business.
The amount of future our business continuity plans fail to cope with the scale or profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns nature of the catastrophe.
Such events could adversely affect in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, our business, results of operations, corporate reputation and morbidity, persistency, general insurance underwriting profit financial condition for a substantial period of time.
and expenses to administer the business.
Of these factors, Furthermore, market conditions beyond our control investment margins and general insurance underwriting profit determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection are most likely to impact the rate of amortisation of such costs.
Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional The aforementioned factors enter into managements estimates expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient of gross profit or margins, which generally are used to amortise reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect such costs.
If the estimates of gross profit or margins were our ability to write future business.
overstated, then the amortisation of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual amount is known and Operational risks relating to Avivas business would result in a charge to income.
Significant or sustained All of our businesses are subject to operational risks, equity market declines could result in an acceleration of including the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from amortisation of the DAC related to unit-linked business, inadequate or failed internal and external processes, systems resulting in a charge to income.
Such adjustments could have a and human error or from malicious acts by third parties or material adverse effect on the results of operations or financial external events.
Our business is dependent on processing a large number of AVIF reflects the estimated present value of future profit complex transactions across numerous and diverse products.
that will emerge over the remaining life of certain in-force Furthermore, the long-term nature of the majority of our contracts in a life insurance company, acquired either directly or business means that accurate records have to be maintained for through the purchase of a subsidiary, and represents the portion significant periods.
of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right Our systems and processes on which we are dependent to to receive future cash flows from the insurance and investment serve our customers are designed to identify appropriately and contracts in-force at the acquisition date.
AVIF is based on address the operational risks associated with our activities.
Actual experience may vary However, they may nonetheless fail due to IT malfunctions, from the projections.
Revisions to estimates result in changes to human error, intentional disruption through the hacking of our the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the IT systems, phishing attacks, or planting of malware by third revisions are made and could result in impairment and a charge parties or by other means, business interruptions, nonto income.
Where AVIF is amortised, an acceleration of the performance by third parties or other external events and failure amortisation of AVIF would occur if the estimates of gross profit of disaster recovery arrangements.
This could disrupt business or margins were overstated in the period in which the actual operations resulting in material reputational damage and the experience is known and would result in a charge to net loss of customers, and have a consequent material adverse income.
Such adjustments could have an adverse effect on our effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Although we have taken steps to upgrade systems and processes to reduce these operational risks, we cannot Catastrophic events, which are often unpredictable by nature, anticipate the details or timing of all possible operational and could result in material losses and abruptly and significantly systems failures which may adversely impact our business.
The interrupt our business activities and results of operations.
increasing sophistication of cyber criminals and the importance Our business is exposed to volatile natural and man-made of digital interaction with our customers to our strategy means disasters such as pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms, the inherent risk of failure of our operations due to the earthquakes, terrorism, riots, fires and explosions.
Such events malicious acts of third parties is expected to increase.
may not only affect insurance claims, but could also adversely Our businesses are exposed to risk from potential nonimpact investment markets and cause declines in the value of compliance with policies, employee misconduct or negligence our investment portfolio.
Over the past several years, changing and fraud, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious weather patterns and climatic conditions have added to the reputational or financial harm.
In recent years, a number of unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters in certain multinational financial institutions have suffered material losses parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as to due to the actions of rogue traders or other employees.
It is future trends and exposure.
not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that always be effective.
causes a large number of deaths.
The effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organisations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us.
The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the 336 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 336 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information Our risk management methods may leave us exposed to respect to our current and future reinsurers.
The insolvency of unidentified, unanticipated or incorrectly quantified risks, any reinsurers or their inability or refusal to pay claims under the which could lead to material losses or material increases in terms of any of their agreements with us could therefore have a liabilities.
In particular, our risk mitigation strategies may material adverse effect on the Group.
Collectability of prove less effective than anticipated, including in relation to reinsurance is largely a function of the solvency of reinsurers.
Significant reinsurance purchases are reviewed annually by us to We have in place risk management policies, procedures and verify that the levels of protection being bought reflect any assessment methods to identify, assess and control risks to avoid developments in exposure and our risk appetite.
or limit potential losses or liabilities.
However, such policies, procedures and assessment methods may not be fully effective There is a risk that customer data could be stolen, lost or in identifying and mitigating the risk exposure of such misused.
businesses in all market environments or against all types of risk.
As a financial services group, we maintain significant amounts Unanticipated or incorrectly quantified risk exposures and or of sensitive customer data.
Despite the controls put in place, inadequate or incorrect responses to these risk exposures could there remains a risk that this data could be stolen, lost and or result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of misused as a result of an intentional or unintentional act by operations and or financial condition.
parties internal or external to us, including through the hacking We employ a range of risk mitigation strategies including of our IT systems and failure to adequately encrypt data.
This the use of equity, interest rate and credit derivatives and could result in fines, the need to compensate customers, the reinsurance arrangements to reduce market, credit and cost of remediation and a negative impact on our reputation insurance risk.
A range of different modelling approaches are with the consequential impact on sales volumes, persistency used to derive and evaluate the strategies adopted.
The levels, and third party managed funds, and hence adversely breakdown of the assumptions used in these modelling impact our results of operations.
approaches, which may occur during market dislocations, could cause these risk mitigation strategies to be less effective than We operate in several markets through arrangements with anticipated and thereby adversely affect our financial condition third parties, and this may expose us to additional risks.
Our ability to exercise management control over our partnership We currently use the reinsurance markets primarily to limit operations, our joint ventures and our investment in them our risk, to support growth and to manage our capital more depends on the terms of the legal agreements.
We are exposed to concentrations of risk with relationships depend on the allocation of control among, and individual reinsurers due to the nature of the reinsurance market continued co-operation between, the participants.
and the restricted range of reinsurers that have acceptable credit We may also face financial or other exposure in the event ratings.
We operate a policy to manage our reinsurance that any of our partners fail to meet their obligations under the counterparty exposures, by limiting the reinsurers that may be agreement or encounter financial difficulty.
Partnership used and applying strict limits to each reinsurer.
Reinsurance agreements may also be terminated on certain dates or subject exposures are aggregated with other exposures to ensure that to certain conditions and could be subject to renewal on less the overall counterparty risk is within appetite.
Our asset and favourable terms.
In addition, a significant proportion of our liability management and risk functions have an active product distribution, such as bancassurance, is carried out monitoring role with escalation to the Chief Financial Officer, through arrangements with third parties not controlled by us the Groups asset liability committee and the Boards risk and is dependent upon the continuation of these relationships.
Our largest reinsurance counterparty A temporary or permanent disruption to these distribution is BlackRock Life Ltd including subsidiaries arising as a result of arrangements could affect our financial condition.
Some of BlackRock funds offered to UK Life customers via unit linked these arrangements require our third-party partners to contracts.
At 31 December 2015, the reinsurance asset participate in and provide capital to our joint venture, associate recoverable, including debtor balances, from BlackRock Life Ltd and subsidiary undertakings.
Our partners may change their was 12,660 million.
Whilst the risk of default is considered strategic priorities or encounter financial difficulties preventing remote due to the nature of the arrangement and the them from providing the necessary capital to promote future counterparty, the Group is currently considering alternative ways growth.
to structure the agreements with BlackRock to reduce or In addition, we outsource certain customer service, remove this exposure.
Excluding potential exposures arising technology and legacy policy administration functions to third from reinsurance of unit linked funds, our largest reinsurance parties and may do so increasingly in the future.
If we do not counterparty is Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd. At 31 effectively develop, implement and maintain our outsourcing December 2015, the reinsurance asset recoverable, including strategy, third-party providers do not perform as anticipated or debtor balances, from Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd we experience technological or other problems with a transition including subsidiaries was 2,863 million.
to or between such providers, we may not realise the full extent Reductions in risk appetite among reinsurers may result in of productivity improvements or administration and cost changes in price or willingness to reinsure certain risks, which efficiencies and, as a result, may experience operational could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business.
In particular, or financial condition.
If reinsurers do not offer to renew their failings by our outsource partners to perform outsourced products and services, in whole or in part, for any reason, there functions, or to perform them to the required standards, may is a risk that we may be unable to procure replacement cover adversely affect our reputation and lead to the loss of customers for any reinsurance agreements terminated at rates equivalent and operating profit or to regulatory fines.
to those of the terminated cover, or at all, and we may be Our fund management operation depends on a number of exposed to un-reinsured losses during any interim period key vendors, for various fund administration, accounting, between termination of the existing agreements and the start of valuations, custody and transfer agent roles and other any replacement cover.
The failure or inability to diversify sources for While reinsurance makes the assuming reinsurer liable to the key services or the failure of any key vendors to fulfil their Group to the extent of the risk ceded, it does not discharge us obligations could lead to operational issues for us and in certain from our primary obligation to pay under an insurance policy for losses incurred.
We are therefore subject to credit risk with Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 337 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 337 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued products, which could result in financial losses for our clients The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective.
and impact our results of operations.
Our process for valuing investments may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which require The failure to attract or retain the necessary personnel, or to judgement and could result in changes to investment keep existing personnels skills up to date and in line with valuations.
If our business does not perform well, we may be our strategy, could have a material adverse effect on our required to recognise an impairment of our goodwill or results of operations and or our businesses.
intangibles with indefinite and finite useful lives, which could As a global financial services organisation with a decentralised adversely affect our results of operations or financial management structure, we rely to a considerable extent on the condition.
quality of local management in the countries in which we The determination of the amount of allowances and operate.
The success of our operations is dependent, among impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective.
Our other things, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified process for valuing investments may include methodologies, professional employees.
Competition for such key employees is estimations and assumptions which require judgement and intense.
Our ability to attract and retain key employees is could result in changes to investment valuations.
dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market The determination of the amount of allowances and conditions, working environment and compensation packages impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our offered by companies competing for the same talent.
periodic evaluation and assessment of known risks associated with the respective asset class.
Such evaluations and There are inherent funding risks associated with our assessments are revised as conditions change and new participation in defined benefit staff pension schemes.
information becomes available and additional impairments may We operate both defined benefit and defined contribution staff need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future.
In the UK, we operate three main pension carrying value of an investment is greater than the recoverable schemes: the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme ASPS, the Friends amount, the carrying value is reduced through a charge to the Provident Pension Scheme FPPS and the RAC 2003 Pension income statement in the period of impairment.
The defined benefit section of the ASPS was closed to assurance that management has accurately assessed the level of new members in 2002 other than on an exceptional basis, and impairments taken and allowances reflected in our financial closed to future accruals for all existing members from 1 April statements.
The FPPS has been closed to new members since July We value our fair value securities using designated 2007 and closed to active membership on 31 December 2012. methodologies, estimations and assumptions.
These securities, The defined benefit section of the RAC 2003 Pension Scheme which are reported at fair value on the consolidated statement was also closed to new members and closed to future accrual in of financial position, represent the majority of our total cash and April 2011. invested assets.
We have categorised the measurement basis for Closure of the defined benefit schemes removes some of the assets carried at fair value into a fair value hierarchy in volatility associated with additional future accrual for active accordance with the valuation inputs and consistent with IFRS members.
The fair value hierarchy gives the There are still inherent funding risks associated with the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical defined benefit schemes.
Events could result in a material assets or liabilities Level 1 : the middle priority to fair values reduction in the funding position of such schemes and may other than quoted prices based on observable market result in a materially increased deficit between the pension information Level 2 : and the lowest priority to unobservable schemes assets and liabilities.
The factors that affect the inputs that reflect the assumptions that we consider market schemes position include: poor performance of pension fund participants would normally use Level 3.
The majority of our investments: greater life expectancy than assumed: adverse financial assets are valued based on quoted market information changes in interest rates or inflation or discount rates: and other Level 1 or observable market data Level 2.
At 31 December events occurring that increase the costs of past service benefits 2015, 16% of total financial investments, loans and investment over the amounts predicted in the actuarial assumptions.
In the properties at fair value were classified as Level 3, amounting to short-term, the funding position is inherently volatile due to 49,122 million.
Where estimates were used for inputs to Level movements in the market value of assets.
Where a funding 3 fair values, these were based on a combination of deficit or surplus arises, the position will be discussed with the independent third-party evidence and internally developed scheme trustees to agree appropriate actions.
This may include models, intended to be calibrated to market observable data a plan to fund the deficit over a period of years.
Any surplus or where possible.
deficit in the defined benefit pension scheme will affect An asset or liabilitys classification within the fair value shareholders equity, although the IFRS position may diverge hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to our from the scheme funding position.
The UK pension schemes are subject to statutory Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts paid to requirements with regards to funding and other matters relating acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of to the administration of the schemes.
Compliance with these their net assets at the date of acquisition.
We test goodwill and requirements is subject to regular review.
A determination that intangible assets with indefinite useful lives at least annually for we have failed to comply with applicable regulations could have impairment or when circumstances or events indicate there may an adverse impact on our results of operations or our be uncertainty over this value.
We test intangibles with finite relationship with current and potential contributors and lives when circumstances or events indicate there may be employees, and adverse publicity.
For impairment testing, goodwill and intangibles have been allocated to cash-generating units by geographical reporting unit and business segment.
The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business.
Goodwill, negative unallocated divisible surplus and indefinite life intangibles are written down for impairment where the recoverable amount is insufficient to support our carrying value.
Such write downs could have a 338 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 338 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial We are reliant on IT systems and there are risks that our current and legacy systems cannot be made to adapt to condition.
growth in the business or new styles of doing business.
Key IT initiatives may not deliver what is required either on time Systems errors or regulatory changes may affect the or within budget or provide the performance levels required to calculation of unit prices or deduction of charges for unitlinked products which may require us to compensate support the current and future needs of the business.
resources are devoted to maintaining and developing IT systems A significant proportion of our product sales are unit-linked to keep pace with developments within the insurance and fund contracts, where product benefit are linked to the prices of management industries and to maintain service levels and underlying unit funds.
While comprehensive controls are in availability at acceptable levels.
Failure to do so could result in place, there is a risk of error in the calculation of the prices of the inability to gather information for pricing, underwriting and these funds due to human error in data entry, IT-related issues reserving, to attract and retain customers or meet regulatory or other causes.
Additionally, it is possible that policy charges requirements or only to do so at excessive cost.
which are deducted from these contracts are taken incorrectly, or the methodology is subsequently challenged by policyholders Risk relating to the execution of our strategy, and corporate disposals and acquisitions, including specifically the or regulators and changed retrospectively.
Any of these can give acquisition of Friends Life Group rise to compensation payments to customers.
Controls are in Our acquisitions and other corporate transactions may not place to mitigate these risks, but errors could give rise to future realise expected benefits and may divert management liabilities.
Payments due to errors or compensation may attention and other resources and involve risks of negatively impact our results of operations or financial undisclosed liabilities and integration issues.
In past years, we have completed a number of acquisitions.
On 10 April 2015 the Group acquired Friends Life and on 21 Moves to simplify the operating structure and activities of January 2016 the Group announced its intention to acquire RBC the Group increases the reliance placed on core businesses General Insurance Company, which is expected to complete and is subject to execution risk.
later in 2016, and the Group may undertake further acquisitions As part of our move to a more simplified structure, a number of in the future.
Growth by acquisition involves risks that could business disposals, operating entity mergers and operational adversely affect our operating results, including the substantial restructures have taken place, and may continue to occur in the amount of management time and other resources that may be future.
This includes the potential sale of a number of non-core diverted from operations to pursue and complete acquisitions, businesses.
These changes are intended to reduce the or risks of undisclosed liabilities or integration or separation operational costs of the Group and allow resources to be reissues.
The integration of any future acquisition may not be deployed in more capital efficient businesses.
There is a risk that successful or in line with our expectations and any acquired these expected benefits may not be realised.
These changes may businesses may fail to achieve, in the near or long-term, the reduce operating profit in the short-term and will lead to financial results projected or the strategic objectives of the changes in the geographical and product risk profile of the relevant acquisition such as cost savings or synergies and, once Group.
The execution risk including the risks relating to securing acquired, may continue to divert further management attention the necessary regulatory approvals, could result in the failure to and resources or necessitate changes in Group strategy.
The achieve cost savings, the loss of key staff, and disruption to core inability to realise expected benefits from such transactions may business activities and governance structures which could have a adversely affect our results of operations.
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
The implementation of our strategy may not proceed as The proceeds received from disposals may not reflect the expected.
values that management believes are achievable and or may Our strategy, which may be revised from time to time, may cause substantial accounting losses particularly if the disposals involve carrying on business in new markets, developing are done in difficult market conditions, each of which may capabilities to carry out new business activities, expanding or result in our failure to realise the anticipated benefits and gains reducing the scope of certain types of business activities or from any such disposal.
In addition, disposals of businesses, products and reorganising the Group in a manner which is which may be cash generative and profitable, may adversely appropriate for such business development changes, taking into affect our short-term cash flows until the medium to long-term account legal, regulatory, operational, capital and other strategic benefits of such disposals are realised, as well as gives requirements.
The implementation of any strategy, changes in rise to a corresponding potential impact on capital requirements strategy, adoption of any new strategy and or entry into new and liquidity.
Preparation of businesses for disposal, and the markets could entail significant changes in our business which disposal process more generally, may divert management time may entail higher levels of risk or could adversely affect the and attention away from the operation of the business in the results of operations, the financial condition and or the credit ordinary course and may be disruptive to the business.
We and financial strength ratings of the Group.
retain a residual exposure in respect of disposed business as a We may be unable to execute, or may encounter difficulties result of any representations, warranties or indemnities or delays in successfully executing, our business and strategic provided.
goals which are subject to the risks set out herein and other Execution risk is inherent in the completion of all strategic factors that are currently unforeseen and which may be beyond transactions.
Such risks include uncertainty in relation to their control.
Failure to achieve any or all strategic goals, or the obtaining the required regulatory approvals on satisfactory encounter of undue delay or unforeseen costs in implementing terms for the change of control envisaged by such transactions.
such goals, could adversely affect our results of operations and Such execution risk gives rise to a corresponding potential financial condition, as well as our reputation and standing in the impact on capital requirements and liquidity.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 339 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 339 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued Having acquired Friends Life Group, the Groups success will Brand and reputation risks relating to Avivas business be dependent upon its ability to integrate the two We are rated by several rating agencies, and a decline in any businesses: there will be numerous challenges associated of these ratings could affect our standing among customers, with the integration and the synergies expected from the broker-dealers, agents, wholesalers and other distributors of acquisition of Friends Life Group may not be fully achieved.
our products and services and cause our sales and earnings to decrease.
Following the acquisition of Friends Life Group on 10 April A rating downgrade, or the perceived potential for such a 2015, a process was commenced to integrate the operations of downgrade, of Aviva plc or any of our rated insurance the Aviva Group and the Friends Life Group over a period subsidiaries may, among other things, materially increase the expected to last two to three years.
To the extent that the number of policy surrenders and withdrawals by policyholders enlarged Group is unable to efficiently integrate operations, of cash values from their policies.
The outcome of such activities realise cost reductions, transfer existing Friends Life Group asset may be cash payments requiring the sale of invested assets, management contracts to Aviva Investors, retain qualified including illiquid assets, at a price that may result in realised personnel or customers and avoid unforeseen costs or delay, investment losses.
These cash payments to policyholders would there may be an adverse effect on the business, results of result in a decrease in total invested assets and a decrease in net operations and or the financial condition of the enlarged Group.
Among other things, early withdrawals may also cause While Aviva believes that the costs and synergies expected to us to accelerate amortisation of policy acquisition costs, which arise from the acquisition have been reasonably estimated, would reduce net income.
A rating downgrade may also impact unanticipated events or liabilities may arise which result in a sales volumes, particularly in Canada, where there is more focus delay or reduction in the benefits derived from the transaction, by brokers on ratings when evaluating similar products.
The or in costs significantly in excess of those estimated.
The ratings provided by AM Best and Standard & Poors S&P are integration of the Group and the Friends Life Group will be considered to be the most important for distribution in Canada, supported by a strong management team with experience of and a downgrade could lead to a significant loss of sales and large integration processes.
However, no assurance can be given could lead to the termination of some distribution agreements.
that the integration process will deliver all or substantially all of A significant rating downgrade may also increase our cost of the expected benefits or realise such benefits in a timely borrowing or limit our access to some forms of financing.
The enlarged Group will encounter numerous integration We are dependent on the strength of our brand, the brands challenges as a consequence thereof.
In particular, the enlarged of our partners and our reputation with customers and Groups management and resources may be diverted from its agents in the sale of our products and services.
core business activity of administering the enlarged businesses Our results are, to a certain extent, dependent on the strength due to personnel being required to assist in the integration of our brand and reputation.
While we are well recognised, we process.
The integration process may lead to an increase in the are vulnerable to adverse market and customer perception.
We level of administrative errors.
A decline in the service standards operate in an industry where integrity, customer trust and of the enlarged Group may result in an increase in customer confidence are paramount.
We are exposed to the risk that complaints and customer and or regulatory actions, which may litigation, employee misconduct, operational failures, the lead to reputational damage and the loss of customers and or outcome of regulatory investigations, press speculation and distributors by the enlarged Group and have an adverse impact negative publicity, disclosure of confidential client information, on financial performance and condition.
Furthermore, whether inadequate services, amongst others, whether true or not, could as a result of a decision or action taken by a regulator with impact our brand or reputation.
Our brand and reputation could jurisdiction over the enlarged Groups business or otherwise, it also be affected if products or services recommended by us or may not prove possible to achieve the expected level of synergy any of our intermediaries do not perform as expected whether benefits on integration of the businesses of the Group and the or not the expectations are founded or in line with the Friends Life Group on time or at all and or the cost of delivering customers expectations for the product range.
Such a change such benefits may exceed the expected cost.
to our brand strength could adversely affect our results of There will inevitably be a cost involved in revising the current operations and financial condition.
systems and structures of the enlarged Group.
There is a risk that these costs could exceed current estimates, which would We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and adversely affect anticipated integration benefits.
may be subject to infringement claims by a third party.
During the integration period the enlarged Group may not Our primary brand in the UK Aviva is a registered trade mark be in a position to acquire other insurance and or asset in the UK and elsewhere.
We own and trade under other management related targets that it might otherwise have registered or pending trade marks in the UK and elsewhere sought to acquire.
In view of the demands the integration such as Friends Provident, General Accident and Quote Me process may have on management time, it may also cause a Happy, including Community trade marks having effect in the delay in other projects currently contemplated by the Group.
We rely on a combination of contractual rights, Under any of these circumstances, the business growth copyright and trademark laws to establish and protect our opportunities, overhead functions consolidation benefits, intellectual property.
Although we use a broad range of purchasing and distribution benefits and other synergies measures to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties anticipated to result from the acquisition of Friends Life Group may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property.
The may not be achieved as expected, or at all, or may be delayed loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure materially.
To the extent that the enlarged Group incurs higher or enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets integration costs or achieves lower synergy benefits than could have a material adverse effect on our business and our expected, its results of operations, financial condition and or ability to compete.
prospects may be adversely affected.
Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents or other protections that could be infringed by our products, methods, processes or services or could limit our ability to offer certain product features.
In recent years, there has been increasing intellectual property litigation in the financial services industry challenging, among other things, product designs and 340 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 340 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information business processes.
If a third party were to successfully assert an free, with the balance taxed at the individuals marginal rate, intellectual property infringement claim against us, or if we were which removes the compulsion for customers to buy an annuity.
otherwise precluded from offering certain features or designs, Subsequent to the UK Governments announcement of its or utilising certain processes, it could have a material effect on intention to pass the new legislation in March 2014 and its our business, results of operations and financial condition.
coming into effect in April 2015, sales of individual annuities have been and continue to be adversely impacted, and there Our businesses are conducted in highly competitive continues to be uncertainty over the longer-term impact, in environments.
particular with the possibility that the UK Government might There are many factors which affect our ability to sell our further liberalise the restrictions on customers accessing their products, including fiscal incentives, price and yields offered, pension funds on retirement adversely impacting sales of financial strength and ratings, range of product lines and individual annuities.
product quality, brand strength and name recognition, service In response, within the UK, we have refocused our levels to customers, fund management performance and retirement solutions business to use our existing broad product historical bonus levels.
In some of our markets, we face universe for example, individual annuities, investment platform competitors that are comparable in size, scope and brand and equity release products to help customers through their recognition.
In some markets, competitors have greater financial retirement journey and we also seek to deliver profitable growth resources or greater market share, offer a broader range of from our Bulk Purchase Annuities products.
However, at this products, benefit from more advantageous tax treatments, or stage it remains too early to assess the full impact of these have higher bonus rates or claims paying ratios.
Further, changes on our adjusted operating profit and the extent to heightened competition for talented and skilled employees with which these impacts can be mitigated by substitution of annuity local experience, particularly in the emerging, high growth sales with alternative products offered or being developed by markets, may limit our ability to grow businesses as quickly as us.
In certain non UK markets, we face intense competition from local and international financial institutions, Our regulated business is subject to extensive regulatory which may be more established in these markets and may have supervision both in the UK and internationally.
other competitive advantages, such as greater size and breadth, We are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are which may limit our ability to be successful in these markets.
In administered and enforced by a number of different addition, local laws and regulations may be tailored to domestic governmental authorities and non-governmental agencies, providers, which may pose additional challenges to our including the PRA, the FCA and other regulators.
wider financial and economic conditions, some of these Our principal competitors in the life market include many of authorities are considering, or may in the future consider, the major financial services businesses including, in particular, enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent Axa, Allianz, CNP, Generali, Prudential, Legal & General, future crises or otherwise assure the stability of institutions Standard Life, Unum and Zurich.
Our principal competitors in under their supervision.
These authorities may also seek to the general insurance market include Direct Line Insurance, exercise their supervisory or enforcement authority in new or Intact, RSA, Zurich, Axa and Allianz.
Our principal competitors in more robust ways.
All of these possibilities, if they occurred, the fund management market include BlackRock, State Street could affect the way we conduct our business and manage our Global, Fidelity Investments, Schroders and Aberdeen, as well as capital, and may require us to satisfy increased capital the fund management divisions of our principal competitors in requirements.
Insurance regulation in the UK is largely based on the requirements of EU directives.
Inconsistent application of We also face competitors who specialise in many of the niche markets in which we operate.
We believe that directives by regulators in different EU member states may place us at a competitive disadvantage to other European financial competition will intensify across all regions in response to consumer demand, technological advances, the impact of services groups.
In addition, changes in the local regulatory regimes of designated territories could affect the calculation of consolidation, regulatory actions and other factors.
Our ability to generate an appropriate return depends our solvency position.
Our insurance subsidiaries and branches worldwide are significantly upon our capacity to anticipate and respond appropriately to these competitive pressures.
subject to detailed and comprehensive government regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which they conduct business.
Regulatory and legislative risks relating to our businesses Regulatory agencies have broad administrative power over many We may experience a decreased demand for individual aspects of the insurance business, which may include premium annuities in the United Kingdom as a result of recent and rates, marketing and selling practices, advertising, licensing possible further changes in UK law.
agents, policy forms, capital adequacy and permitted Our sales of annuities in the UK are composed of individual investments.
Government regulators are concerned primarily annuities and bulk purchase annuities.
We may experience a with the protection of policyholders rather than our decreased demand for individual annuities in the UK due to shareholders or creditors.
Individual annuities have historically The failure of any of our subsidiaries to meet minimum played a central role in most UK pensioners post retirement capital and surplus requirements could subject us to further financial arrangements due to the requirement for the benefits examination or corrective action imposed by insurance of defined contribution pensions to be converted to an regulators, including limitations on our ability to write additional individual annuity by the time the policyholder reached age 75 business, increased supervision by regulators or the and such pension contracts offering a tax efficient method of implementation of resolution plans.
Any corrective action saving for retirement.
imposed could have a material adverse effect on our business, New legislation that took effect from April 2015, has given results of operations and financial condition.
A decline in retirees greater flexibility in accessing defined contribution minimum capital and surplus amounts may also limit the ability pensions at retirement.
Under the new legislation, inter alia, of an insurance subsidiary to make dividend payments or consumers approaching retirement have the freedom to take distributions and could be a factor in causing rating agencies to their whole pension pot as cash the first 25% remaining tax downgrade our financial strength ratings, which could have a Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 341 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 341 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued material adverse effect on our business, results of operations potential customers.
Regulatory action against a member of the and financial condition.
Group could result in adverse publicity for, or negative In the UK, our business is subject to regulation by both the perceptions regarding, the Group, or could have a material PRA and the FCA, which have broad powers, including the adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and authority to grant, vary the terms of, or cancel a regulated firms financial condition and divert managements attention from the authorisation, to investigate marketing and sales practices, to day-to-day management of the business.
make product intervention rules and to require the maintenance We will not always be able to predict the impact of future of adequate financial resources.
The PRA and the FCA have the legislation or regulation or changes in the interpretation or power to undertake a range of investigative, disciplinary or operation of existing legislation or regulation on our business, enforcement actions, including public censure, restitution, fines results of operations and financial condition.
Changes in or sanctions and to require firms to pay compensation.
government policy, legislation or regulatory interpretation The PRA and the FCA may make enquiries of the companies applying to companies in the financial services and insurance which they regulate regarding compliance with regulations industries in any of the markets in which we operate, which governing the operation of business and, similar to the other UK may be applied retrospectively, may adversely affect the range regulated financial services companies, we face the risk that the of products offered, the terms and conditions applicable to PRA or the FCA could find that we have failed to comply with these products including retrospectively, distribution channels, applicable regulations or have not undertaken corrective action capital requirements, dividends payable by subsidiaries and, as required.
consequently, results and financing requirements.
Issues and disputes may arise from time to time from the Similarly, the FCA has conducted a number of thematic way in which the insurance industry or fund management reviews and market studies of the annuity and retirement industry has sold or administered an insurance policy or other income markets.
Initially, a review was conducted by the FCA of product or in the way in which they have treated policyholders annuity pricing data, which concluded in February 2014 that the or customers, either individually or collectively, which may result market was not working well for most consumers.
This pricing in investigative, disciplinary or enforcement actions by the FCA review looked at whether and to what extent prospective or PRA or require the making of redress to customers.
customers are not purchasing the best value annuities, or There has been an increased focus in the EU on the fair exercising the open market option OMO to buy their annuity treatment of customers, in particular on the way in which the from a firm other than the one providing the pension policy.
insurance industry or fund management industry sells and The FCA conducted its own pricing research to determine which administers insurance policies or other products.
The European groups of consumers are most likely to be affected.
This Commission is currently in the process of preparing delegated involved a pricing survey of major annuity providers, and regulations under the Insurance Distribution Directive IDD and compared the rates available through a range of distribution has also been working on an initiative in relation to Packaged channels, including rates available through the OMO and those Retail and Insurance based Investment Products PRIIPs with only available to existing pension policyholders.
This pricing the aim of harmonising pre contractual disclosures and selling review was followed up by the related Thematic Review of practices for such products.
There is a risk that any new rules Annuity Sales Practices, which was published by the FCA on 11 required in due course to implement the IDD and any new rules December 2014.
The FCA has highlighted that its work on this relating to PRIIPs will lead to restrictions on our ability to review has revealed that firms needed to make improvements in distribute our products within the EU and additional distribution relation to the way consumers are informed about shopping and compliance costs, which could have a material adverse around for enhanced annuities.
effect on our results, operations, and or costs or otherwise The FCA has followed-up with further work in the field of negatively impact on our distribution arrangements.
pension market reform and on 26 March 2015 published Where larger groups or matters of public policy are findings and proposed remedies in relation to its retirement concerned, the PRA and the FCA may intervene directly to income market study.
The FCA suggested the following provide redress to customers.
There have been several industryremedies to support consumer choice in the market: i requiring wide issues in recent years in which the PRA or the FCA or firms to provide an annuity quotation ranking so that consumers previously the Financial Services Authority has intervened can easily identify if they could be getting a better deal by directly, including the sale of personal pensions, the sale of shopping around: ii redesigning and behaviourally trialling the mortgage-related endowments and investments in split capital information that consumers receive from their providers, such as investment trusts and sale of payment protection insurance.
wake-up packs, in the run up to their retirement: and iii in the Outside of the UK, our businesses are regulated by local longer-term, the creation of a pensions dashboard which will regulators that often have similar powers to the PRA and the allow consumers to see all their pension pots in one place.
In FCA and the exercise of these powers could therefore have a addition, the FCA noted that they want to see firms framing the similar negative impact on perceptions of our businesses or have options available to help consumers make good decisions, a material adverse effect on our business.
rather than to drive sales of certain products.
On 1 October Furthermore, various jurisdictions in which we operate, 2015 the FCA published a consultation paper setting out including the UK, have created investor compensation schemes proposed changes to FCA rules and guidance in relation to that require mandatory contributions from market participants pension reforms.
The purpose of the paper is to consult on the in some instances in the event of a failure of another market FCAs expectations about how existing rules and guidance will participant.
As a major participant in the majority of our chosen operate in the new environment as well as bring forward markets, circumstances could arise where we, along with other proposals for further changes to the FCAs rules.
Following companies, may be required to make such contributions.
We receipt of feedback, the FCA is scheduled to publish its rules at like all other groups in which an entity is PRA and or FCA the beginning of Q2 2016 which will come into effect in stages, regulated contribute to the Financial Services Compensation within one year of the end of the consultation.
Scheme and the levels of contribution to the Financial Services The consequences of the FCAs work in this area remains Compensation Scheme may change over time.
uncertain but could include requirements to pay redress to A determination that we have failed to comply with customers who could have obtained a more favourable annuity applicable regulation could have a negative impact on our rate by exercising their OMO or purchasing an enhanced results of operations or on our relations with current and annuity and or the imposition of greater obligations on annuity 342 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 342 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information providers to treat customers fairly and provide increased levels or to issue additional debt.
Similarly we could be required to of information on alternative options available to customers at reduce or discontinue activities which contribute to systemic retirement.
Regulatory action of this type could have riskiness, restructure to facilitate resolvability and or remove or consequences for the Group and have a material adverse effect reduce or accelerate the planned reduction of intercompany on our business, results of operations and or financial condition.
debts or guarantees within the Group.
Such requirements could Following a market study by the Office of Fair Trading have negative consequences for our business and results of OFT and the Department of Work and Pensions DWP, since operations and, in particular, could impact on the ability of April 2015, a 0.75% charge cap has come into effect on autosubsidiaries to remit dividends to Aviva and consequently on the enrolment schemes.
The cap covers member-borne deductions Avivas ability to remit dividends to shareholders.
which include all charges on member savings other than The IAIS is also developing a common framework for the transaction costs.
Other measures arising out of the supervision of internationally active insurance groups recommendations from the OFT and DWPs market study will be ComFrame.
The framework is designed to develop common implemented in coming years, but how these will be principles for supervision and so may result in more extensive implemented remains uncertain.
The extent of the measures, regulation, particularly at Group level, in those jurisdictions including the impact of the charge cap on providers of which do not currently employ group-wide supervision.
In workplace pensions, together with any requirement to remove addition, it is not clear how ComFrame will interact with existing commission payments, remain uncertain and the industry regimes of group-wide supervision.
The intention is that an response to these measures could have a range of possible insurance capital standard ICS, applicable to globally active impacts on the Groups trading and financial performance.
insurers, will ultimately form part of ComFrame.
A revised draft We may face increased compliance costs due to the need to ComFrame proposal was published in September 2014 and set up additional compliance controls or the direct cost of such ComFrame, including the final ICS, is expected to be adopted in compliance because of changes to financial services legislation 2019, subject to its incorporation into EU law and or or regulation.
The Solvency II Directive, which governs insurance industry regulation and prudential capital requirements in the European We are involved in various legal proceedings, regulatory investigations and examinations and may be involved in Union, including associated Implementing Technical Standards more in the future.
and guidelines, became effective on 1 January 2016.
There We have been named as defendants in lawsuits, including class remains uncertainty as to how the Directive and associated actions and individual lawsuits.
We have been subject to standards and guidelines will be interpreted and implemented regulatory investigations or examinations in the various by national supervisory authorities NSAs in individual member jurisdictions in which we operate.
These actions arise in various states, which may adversely impact the amount of capital contexts, including in connection with our activities as an required to support the business.
There is a risk that NSAs will insurer, securities issuer, employer, investment adviser, be inconsistent in their interpretation and application of the investment manager, investor and taxpayer.
Directive and associated standards and guidelines, for example Lawsuits and investigations may also arise which could seek rules pertaining to the dynamic volatility adjustment, which significant or unspecified amounts of damages, including could put us at competitive disadvantage in some markets by punitive damages, and certain of the regulatory authorities adversely impacting the Group and subsidiary capital involved in these proceedings have substantial powers over the requirements compared to domestic competitors.
conduct and operations of our business.
In December 2015, the PRA approved use of the Groups Due to the nature of certain of these lawsuits and partial internal model to calculate the regulatory capital investigations, we cannot make an estimate of loss or predict requirement under Solvency II for much of the Groups with any certainty the potential impact of these lawsuits or businesses.
Over the next year or two the Group plans to apply investigations.
to extend use of the Internal model to other businesses within In the course of conducting insurance business, we receive the Group, with a beneficial impact on the Groups capital general insurance liability claims, and become involved in actual requirement.
There is a risk that the PRA and the NSAs or threatened related litigation arising therefrom, including responsible for these businesses do not approve extension to claims in respect of pollution and other environmental hazards.
the use of the Internal model or apply conditions that result in Given the significant delays that are experienced in the the anticipated capital benefits failing to materialise.
notification of these claims, the potential number of incidents In July 2013 the Group was designated by the Financial that they cover and the uncertainties associated with Stability Board FSB as a global systemically important insurer establishing liability and the availability of reinsurance, the G-SII.
The initial list of nine insurance groups that have been ultimate cost cannot be determined with certainty.
designated as G-SIIs also includes a number of our competitors.
Additionally, it is possible that a regulator in one of our The list will be updated annually and the Groups inclusion on major markets may conduct a review of products previously the list was reconfirmed in November 2015.
For so long as it is sold, either as part of an industry-wide review or specific to it.
designated as a G-SII, the Group is within the scope of policy The result of this review may be to compensate customers for requirements issued by the International Association of losses they have incurred as a result of the products they were Insurance Supervision IAIS, including: enhanced supervision sold.
requiring the maintenance of a Systemic Risk Management As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other Plan: a liquidity risk management plan: a recovery plan: a environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended resolution plan: and higher loss absorbency capital issues related to claims and coverage may emerge.
Examples of requirements, which will apply from January 2019, subject to emerging claims and coverage issues include adverse changes in implementation by NSAs, for those insurers still designated as loss trends, judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact G-SIIs in November 2017.
Details of the higher loss absorbency of new theories of liability: growth of claims culture: legislative capital requirements are still being developed by the IAIS leading or judicial action that affects policy coverage or interpretation, to uncertainty over their impact.
There is a risk that, if we claim quantification, or pricing: a growing trend of plaintiffs continue to be designated as a G-SII, this could lead to a targeting property and casualty insurers in purported class significant increase in capital required to support our business action litigation relating to claims handling and other practices: which may give rise to a need for us to delay deleveraging plans Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 343 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 343 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued new causes of liability or mass claims: claims in respect of A number of other jurisdictions, in which we operate, have directors and officers coverage, professional indemnity and introduced or announced that they intend to introduce similar other liability covers: and climate change related litigation.
measures requiring financial institutions in their territory to All of the above could adversely impact our results of report account information.
The OECD Common Reporting operations or financial condition.
Standard CRS, which was endorsed by the G20 in July 2014, calls on jurisdictions to obtain information from their financial From time to time, changes in the interpretation of existing institutions regarding non-resident account holders and tax laws, amendments to existing tax rates or the automatically exchange that information with other introduction of new tax legislation may adversely impact our participating jurisdictions on an annual basis.
jurisdictions have committed to participating in automatic We operate in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world and exchange by reference to CRS requirements, 56 of those face risks associated with changes in tax law, interpretation of jurisdictions committing to implement legislation to implement tax law, changes in tax rates and the risk of failure to comply CRS as of 1 January 2016 and require first reporting by financial with procedures required by tax authorities.
Failure to manage institutions in 2017 of 2016 information.
Despite commitments, tax risks could lead to an additional tax charge or a financial certain participating jurisdictions have yet to implement penalty.
domestic legislation and there is a lack of concrete domestic If, as a result of a particular tax risk materialising, the tax implementation guidance in many jurisdictions.
As there costs associated with certain transactions are greater than remains uncertainty over the precise scope of measures, we are anticipated, it could affect the profitability of those transactions.
at risk of late changes to interpretation of implementation In 2005 the European Court Justice judgement in the case of requirements and consequently an increase of our compliance Arthur Andersen highlighted that the UK and some other EU costs, and impact to the results of operations.
member states were granting a VAT exemption for wider range of insurance related services than the VAT Directive Changes to IFRS generally or specifically for insurance allowed.
The EU Commission then initiated a project to update companies may materially adversely affect the reporting of the insurance VAT exemption in light of current market our financial results conditions, which was discontinued in late 2015.
On 23 Changes to IFRS for insurance companies have been proposed December 2015 the EU Advocate General in the case of Aspiro in recent years and further changes may be proposed in the SA confirmed the ECJs 2005 judgement.
The International Accounting Standards Board published judgement and consultation on its implementation the effect proposals that would introduce significant changes to the could be that services outsourced to parties who have no statutory reporting of insurance entities that prepare financial contractual relationship with the insured will not benefit from statements according to IFRS.
The accounting proposals, which the VAT exemption for insurance services.
Any restriction is are not expected to be finalised until later in 2016 at the earliest expected to be applied prospectively and not until 2017 at the with an effective date still to be determined, will change the earliest, and may increase the irrecoverable VAT incurred by the presentation and measurement of insurance contracts, including Group negatively impacting our results of operations or financial the effect of technical reserves and reinsurance on the value of condition.
It is uncertain whether and how the There are also specific rules governing the taxation of proposals may affect the Group should they become definitive policyholders.
We are unable to predict accurately the impact of standards.
Current proposals may have an adverse effect on the future changes in tax law on the taxation of life insurance and manner in which we report insurance provisions and, therefore, pension policies in the hands of policyholders.
Amendments to identify and report revenues, costs and distributable reserves.
existing legislation, particularly if there is the withdrawal of any The changes could, therefore, have an adverse effect on our tax relief, or an increase in tax rates, or the introduction of new financial performance and condition including through changes rules, may affect the future long-term business and the affecting the calculation of taxation.
These and any other decisions of policyholders.
The impact of such changes upon us changes to IFRS if endorsed by the EU, that may be proposed in might depend on the mix of business in-force at the time of the future, whether or not specifically targeted at insurance such change.
companies, could materially adversely affect our reported results The design of life insurance products by our life insurance of operations and financial position.
companies takes into account a number of factors, including risks and taxation and is based on the tax legislation in force at Risks related to ownership of the ADSs and that time.
Changes in tax legislation or in the interpretation of ordinary shares tax legislation may therefore, when applied to such products, The trading price of our ADRs and dividends paid on our have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the ADSs may be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in relevant long-term business fund of the company in which the the exchange rate for converting sterling into US dollars.
An ADS is a negotiable US security representing ownership in one share.
An ADR is denominated in US dollars and represents We may face increased compliance costs as a result of ownership of any number of ADSs.
ADRs are publicly traded legislation passed in the United States and globally shares in a non-US corporation, quoted and traded in US dollars The U. S. Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA in the US securities market.
Any dividends are paid to investors requires 30% withholding on payments of U. S. source in US dollars.
ADRs are specifically designed to facilitate the dividends, interest, and other fixed payments including, no purchase, holding and sale of non-US securities by US investors.
earlier than 1 January 2019, payments of gross proceeds made The term ADR is often used to mean both the certificates and to a non-United States financial institution FFI unless the FFI the securities themselves.
has entered into an agreement with the Internal Revenue Fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting pound Service to report account information for any of the FFIs U. S. sterling into US dollars may affect the value of our ADRs.
An intergovernmental agreement between the Specifically, as the relative value of the pound sterling against U. S. and certain other jurisdictions will allow FFIs in those the US dollar declines, each of the following values will also jurisdictions to report U. S. accountholder information only to decline: local revenue authorities, rather than to the IRS.
344 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 344 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information the US dollar equivalent of the pound sterling trading price of offering with the SEC can be a lengthy process which may be our ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange which may inconsistent with the timetable for a global capital raising consequently cause the trading price of our ADRs in the US to operation.
Consequently, we have in the past elected and may also decline: in the future elect not to make such an offer in the US, the US dollar equivalent of the proceeds that a holder of including to our ADR holders in the US, and rather only conduct our ADSs would receive upon the sale in the UK of any our such an offering in an offshore transaction in accordance with ordinary shares withdrawn from the depositary: and Regulation S under the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended the US dollar equivalent of cash dividends paid in pound the Securities Act.
Therefore, there can be no assurance that sterling on our ordinary shares represented by our ADSs.
our ADR holders will be able to participate in such an offering in the same manner as our ordinary shareholders.
The holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise their voting rights due to delays in notification to, and by, the The ADR and ordinary share price of Aviva has been, and may depositary.
The depositary for our ADSs may not receive voting materials for The share price of our ADRs and ordinary shares has been our ordinary shares represented by our ADSs in time to ensure volatile in the past and the share price and trading volume of that holders of our ADSs can instruct the depositary to vote our ADRs may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations their shares.
In addition, the depositarys liability to holders of due, in part, to changes in our actual or forecast operating our ADSs for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the results and the inability to fulfill the profit expectations of manner of carrying out voting instructions is limited by the securities analysts, as well as to the high volatility in the Deposit Agreement governing our ADR facility.
As a result, securities markets generally and more particularly in shares of holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to financial institutions.
Other factors, besides our financial results, vote and may have limited or no recourse against the depositary that may impact our share price include, but are not limited to: or us, if their shares are not voted according to their request.
market expectations of the performance and capital adequacy of financial institutions in general: Holders of our ADSs will have limited recourse if we or the investor perceptions of the success and impact of our depositary fail to meet our respective obligations under the strategies: Deposit Agreement.
a downgrade or review of our credit ratings: The Deposit Agreement expressly limits our obligations and potential litigation or regulatory action involving Aviva or liability and those of the depositary.
Neither we nor the sectors we have exposure to through our insurance and fund depositary will be liable if either of us: management activities: are prevented from or delayed in performing any obligation by the operations, accounting practices or regulatory circumstances beyond our their control: investigations, and share price performance of other exercise or fail to exercise discretion under the Deposit companies in the insurance and fund management markets in Agreement: or which we operates: and take any action based upon the advice of, or information conjecture about our business in the press, media or from, legal counsel, accountants, any person presenting investment communities.
ordinary shares for deposit, any person in whose name the strategic actions by competitors, including acquisitions and or ADSs are registered on the books of the depository, any restructurings: person or entity having a beneficial interest deriving from the changes in market conditions and regulatory changes in any ownership of ADRs, or any other person believed by us or the number of countries, whether or not the Company derives depositary in good faith to be competent to give such advice significant revenue therefrom: and or information.
shifts in macro-economic or geopolitical conditions generally.
In addition, the depositary has the obligation to participate in As a foreign private issuer we are not subject to U. S. proxy any action, suit or other proceeding with respect to our ADSs rules and we are subject to U. S. Exchange Act reporting which may involve it in expense or liability only if it is obligations that, to some extent, are less detailed and less indemnified.
These provisions of the Deposit Agreement will frequent than those of a U. S. issuer: this may afford less protection to investors in our securities than those afforded limit the ability of holders of our ADSs to obtain recourse if we to shareholders of companies that are not foreign private or the depositary fail to meet our obligations under the Deposit issuers.
Agreement or if they wish to involve us or the depositary in a As a foreign private issuer we are exempt from certain rules legal proceeding.
under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended the Exchange Act, that impose certain disclosure obligations and The holders of our ADRs in the US may not be able to procedural requirements for proxy solicitations under Section 14 participate in offerings of rights, warrants or similar securities of the Exchange Act.
In addition, our officers, directors and to holders of our ordinary shares on the same terms and conditions as holders of our ordinary shares.
principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and shortIn the event that we offer rights, warrants or similar securities to swing profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange the holders of our ordinary shares or distribute dividends Act and the rules under the Exchange Act with respect to their payable, in whole or in part, in securities, the Deposit purchases and sales of our ordinary shares and ADRs.
Moreover, Agreement provides that the depositary after consultation with we are not required to file periodic reports and financial us shall have discretion as to the procedure to be followed in statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as US making such rights or other securities available to ADR holders, companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange including disposing of such rights or other securities and Act.
In addition, we are not required to comply with Regulation distributing the net proceeds in US dollars to ADR holders.
FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material Given the significant number of our ADR holders in the US, we information.
Although we must comply with UK Listing Rules on generally would be required to register with the SEC any public insider reporting of share ownership and on protection of inside offering of rights, warrants or other securities made to our ADR information, there may be less publicly available information holders unless an exemption from the registration requirements concerning us than there is for US public companies.
of the US securities laws is available.
Registering such an Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 345 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 345 Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued Aviva plc is an English company and it may be difficult to enforce judgements against us or our directors and executive officers.
Aviva plc is incorporated under the laws of England and Wales and our business is based in the UK.
In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the US, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in jurisdictions outside the US.
As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the US upon us or those persons or to recover against us or them on judgements of US courts, including judgements predicated upon civil liability provisions of the US federal securities laws.
Shareholder rights under English law differ from the US.
Individual shareholders of an English company including US persons have the right under English law to bring lawsuit on behalf of the company in which they are a shareholder, and on their own behalf against the company, in certain limited circumstances.
English law does not permit class action lawsuit by shareholders, except in limited circumstances.
346 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 346 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information Other information In this section Page Glossary 348 Shareholder services 351 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 347 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 347
