Glossary Glossary Mortgage endowment Product definitions An insurance contract combining savings and protection Annuities elements which is designed to repay the principal of a loan or A type of policy that pays out regular amounts of benefit, either mortgage.
immediately and for the remainder of a persons lifetime, or deferred to commence from a future date.
Immediate annuities Mortgage life insurance may be purchased for an individual and his or her dependants A protection contract designed to pay off the outstanding or on a bulk purchase basis for groups of people.
Deferred amount of a mortgage or loan in the event of death of the annuities are accumulation contracts, which may be used to insured.
Annuities may be guaranteed, unit-linked or index-linked.
Open ended investment company OEIC A collective investment fund structured as a limited company in Bonds and savings which investors can buy and sell shares.
These are accumulation products with single or regular premiums and unit-linked or guaranteed investment returns.
Pension A means of providing income in retirement for an individual and Critical illness cover possibly his her dependants.
Pays out a lump sum if the insured person is diagnosed with a serious illness that meets the plan definition.
Personal pension A pension plan tailored to the individual policyholder, which Deferred annuity includes the options to stop, start or change their payments.
An annuity or pension due to be paid from a future date or when the policyholder reaches a specified age.
A deferred Protection annuity may be funded by a policyholder by payment of a series An insurance contract that protects the policyholder or his her of regular contributions or by a capital sum.
dependants against financial loss on death or ill-health.
Equity Release Regular premium Equity Release Mortgages allow a homeowner to receive a lump A series of payments are made by the policyholder, typically sum in return for a mortgage secured on their house.
No monthly or annually, for part of or all of the duration of the interest is payable on the loan: instead, interest is rolled-up on contract.
the loan, and the loan and accrued interest are repayable at redemption upon death or moving into long-term care.
Collective investment scheme SICAVs This is an open-ended investment fund, structured as a legally General insurance independent joint stock company, whose units are issued in the Also known as non-life or property and casualty insurance.
Property insurance covers loss or damage through fire, theft, flood, storms and other specified risks.
Casualty insurance Single premium primarily covers losses arising from accidents that cause injury to A single lump sum is paid by the policyholder at other people or damage the property of others.
Group pension Stakeholder pensions A pension plan that covers a group of people, which is typically Low cost and flexible pension plans available in the UK, purchased by a company and offered to their employees.
Health insurance Term assurance Provides cover against loss from illness or bodily injury.
Can pay A simple form of life insurance, offering cover over a fixed for medicine, visits to the doctor, hospital stays, other medical number of years during which a lump sum will be paid out if expenses and loss of earnings, depending on the conditions the life insured dies.
covered and the benefits and choices of treatment available on the policy.
Unit trusts A form of open ended collective investment constituted under a Income drawdown trust deed, in which investors can buy and sell units.
The policyholder can transfer money from any pension fund to an income drawdown plan from which they receive an income.
Whole life The remainder of the pension fund continues to be invested, A protection policy that remains in force for the insureds whole giving it the potential for growth.
life: a lump sum will be paid out on death.
Traditional whole life contracts have fixed premium payments that typically cannot be Investment sales missed without lapsing the policy.
Flexible whole life contracts Comprise retail sales of mutual fund-type products such as unit allow the policyholder to vary the premium and or amount of trusts, individual savings accounts ISAs and open ended life cover, within certain limits.
General terms Individual savings account ISAs Annual premium equivalent APE Tax-efficient plans for investing in stocks and shares, cash Used as a measure of annual sales, taking the annual premium deposits or life insurance investment funds, subject to certain of regular premium contracts plus 10% of single premium limits.
348 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 348 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information Available for sale AFS Financial Conduct Authority FCA Securities that have been acquired neither for short-term sale The FCA is a company limited by guarantee and is independent nor to be held to maturity.
These are shown at fair value on the of the Bank of England.
It is responsible for the conduct statement of financial position and changes in value are taken business regulation of all firms including those firms subject to straight to equity instead of the income statement.
prudential regulation by the PRA and the prudential regulation of firms not regulated by the PRA.
The FCA has three statutory Association of British Insurers ABI objectives: securing an appropriate degree of protection for A major trade association for UK insurance companies, consumers, protecting and enhancing the integrity of the UK established in July 1985. financial system and promoting effective competition in the interests of consumers.
Acquired value of in force business AVIF The present value of future profits on a portfolio of long-term Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Internal Control insurance and investment contracts, acquired either directly or The Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and through the purchase of a subsidiary.
Related Financial and Business Reporting sets out best practice on internal controls for UK listed companies, and provides Bancassurance Affinity additional guidance in applying certain sections of the UK An arrangement whereby banks and building societies sell Corporate Governance Code.
insurance and investment products to their customers on behalf of other financial providers.
Funds under management Represents all assets actively managed or administered by or on Big data behalf of the Group including those funds managed by third Large volumes of data which are a valuable source of parties.
information used to identify customer behaviours.
Gross written premiums Best Estimate Liabilities BEL The total earnings or revenue generated by sales of insurance The expected present value of future cash flows for a products, before any reinsurance is taken into account.
Not all companys current insurance obligations, calculated using best premiums written will necessarily be treated as income in the estimate assumptions, projected over the contracts run-off current financial year, because some of them could relate to period, taking into account all up-to-date financial market and insurance cover for a subsequent period.
Independent Financial Advisers IFAs Cash remittances A person or organisation, authorised under the FCA, to give Amounts paid by our businesses to the Group, comprising independent advice on financial matters.
dividends and interest on internal loans.
Internal rate of return IRR Combined operating ratio COR A discount rate used to measure profitability.
The rate used is A financial measure of general insurance underwriting that which will bring a series of cash flows to a net present profitability calculated as incurred claims expressed as a value of nil.
percentage of net earned premiums, plus written commissions and written expenses expressed as a percentage of net written International financial reporting standards IFRS premiums.
A COR below 100% indicates profitable These are accounting regulations designed to ensure underwriting.
comparable financial statements preparation and disclosure, and are the standards that all publicly listed companies in the Deferred acquisition costs DAC European Union are required to use.
The costs directly attributable to the acquisition of new business for insurance and investment contracts may be deferred to the Inherited estate extent that they are expected to be recoverable out of future In the UK, the assets of the long-term with-profit funds less the margins in revenue on these contracts.
realistic reserves for non-profit policies written within the withprofit funds, less asset shares aggregated across the with-profit Economic capital policies and any additional amounts expected at the valuation A measure of the financial strength of the business: an date to be paid to in-force policyholders in the future in respect economic capital surplus represents the excess of available of smoothing costs and guarantees.
economic capital over required economic capital where the capital requirement is capital where the capital requirement is Latent claims based on Avivas own internal assessment and capital General insurance claims that are often not made until many management policies: the term economic capital does not years after the period of cover provided, due to the impact of imply capital as required by regulators or third parties.
perils or causes not becoming evident for a number of years.
Sources of latent claims include asbestos-related diseases, Excess centre cash flow environmental pollution and industrial deafness.
A measure of excess cash flow, calculated by deducting central operating expenses and debt financing costs from cash remitted Long-term and savings business by business units.
Collective term for life insurance, pensions, savings, investments and related business.
Fair value The price that would be received to sell or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date i. e. an exit price.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 349 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 349 Glossary continued Glossary continued Minimum capital requirement MCR Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA The Minimum Capital Requirement is the minimum amount of The PRA is a part of the Bank of England and is responsible for capital that an insurer needs to hold to cover its risks under the the prudential regulation of deposit taking institutions, insurers Solvency II regulatory framework.
If an insurer's capital falls and major investment firms.
The PRA has two statutory below the MCR then authorisation will be withdrawn by the objectives: to promote the safety and soundness of these firms regulator unless a firm is able to meet the MCR within a short and, specifically for insurers, to contribute to the securing of an period of time.
appropriate degree of protection for policyholders.
Net written premiums Risk-adjusted returns Total gross written premiums for the given period, minus Adjusting profits earned and investment returns by how much premiums paid over or ceded to reinsurers.
risk is involved in producing that return or profit.
New business strain NBS Risk Margin The name given to the initial impact on shareholders net assets The amount an insurance company would require, in excess of when an insurance contract is sold.
This strain arises because, best estimate liabilities, in order to take over and meet the in addition to meeting costs associated with the sale of whole portfolio of insurance and reinsurance obligations.
It contracts, insurance companies must meet capital and reserving reflects the cost of providing capital equal to the solvency requirements at the outset of a contract that are often capital requirement for non-hedgable risks necessary to support significantly higher than the premiums received.
the insurance obligations over their lifetime.
Risk Margin represents the value of deviation risk of the actual outcome Operating expenses compared with the best estimate, expressed in terms of a The day-to-day expenses involved in running a business, such as defined risk measure.
sales and administration, as opposed to production costs.
Solvency II Operating expense ratio These are insurance regulations designed to harmonise EU The Group operating expense ratio is calculated as the Groups insurance regulation.
Primarily this concerns the amount of operating expenses from continuing operations expressed as a capital that European insurance companies must hold under a percentage of the Groups operating profit from continuing measure of capital and risk.
Solvency II became effective from 1 operations before Group debt costs and operating expenses.
Operating profit Solvency Capital Requirement SCR This is a non-GAAP financial performance measure also referred The Solvency Capital Requirement is the amount of capital the to as adjusted operating profit or operating profit IFRS basis.
It Regulator requires an insurer to hold to meet the requirements is based on expected investment returns and stated before tax under the Solvency II regulatory framework.
Holding capital in and before non-operating items including impairment of excess of the SCR demonstrates an insurer has adequate goodwill and amortisation and impairment of acquired value of financial resources in place to meet all its liabilities as and when in-force business and other items.
they fall due and that there is sufficient capital to absorb significant losses.
Firms may use their own internal model, the Own Funds European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority The amount of capital a firm actually holds under Solvency II on EIOPA prescribed standard formula or a partial internal model a market value basis.
This is the sum of the economic value of to determine SCR.
assets less the economic value of liabilities.
Basic own funds are calculated as the difference between the assets including Total shareholder return transitional measure on technical provisions and liabilities A measure of company performance based on the overall value including subordinated liabilities calculated on a combination to shareholders of their investment in a stock over a given of best estimate and market consistent assumptions.
Includes movement in the share price and own funds are calculated as basic own funds with any dividends paid and reinvested, expressed as a percentage of the adjustments including off-balance sheet own funds approved by initial value of the investment or share price at the beginning of the regulator known as ancillary own funds.
funds reflect any tiering restrictions and are the amount of own funds eligible to cover the SCR and MCR.
UK Corporate Governance Code The code sets out guidance in the form of principles and Present value of new business premiums PVNBP provisions on how companies should be directed and controlled Present value of new regular premiums plus 100% of single to follow good governance practice.
premiums, calculated using assumptions consistent with those used to determine the value of new business under Market Value of new business VNB Consistent Embedded Value MCEV principles published by the VNB is the present value of future profits from new business CFO Forum.
written at the point of sale.
It is calculated on a market consistent basis using economic assumptions set at the start of each quarter or more frequently and the same operating assumptions as those used to determine the embedded value at the end of the reporting period and is stated after the effect of any frictional costs.
Unless otherwise stated, it is quoted net of tax and non-controlling interests.
350 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 350 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015
