Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 50 Payables and other financial liabilities This note analyses our payables and other financial liabilities at the end of the year.
2015 2014 m m Payables arising out of direct insurance 1,106 948 Payables arising out of reinsurance operations 443 358 Deposits and advances received from reinsurers 110 92 Bank overdrafts see below 506 550 Derivative liabilities note 58 3,881 3,481 Amounts due to brokers for investment purchases 341 73 Obligations for repayment of cash collateral received 4,855 5,577 Other financial liabilities 1,206 933 Total 12,448 12,012 Expected to be settled within one year 9,300 10,731 Expected to be settled in more than one year 3,148 1,281 12,448 12,012 Bank overdrafts amount to 113 million 2014: 95 million in life business operations and 393 million 2014: 455 million in general insurance business and other operations.
All payables and other financial liabilities are carried at cost, which approximates to fair value, except for derivative liabilities, which are carried at their fair values.
51 Other liabilities This note analyses our other liabilities at the end of the year.
2015 2014 m m Deferred income 175 159 Reinsurers share of deferred acquisition costs 18 12 Accruals 1,159 1,167 Other liabilities 1,450 935 Total 2,802 2,273 Expected to be settled within one year 2,277 1,756 Expected to be settled in more than one year 525 517 2,802 2,273 52 Contingent liabilities and other risk factors This note sets out the main areas of uncertainty over the calculation of our liabilities.
a Uncertainty over claims provisions Note 40 gives details of the estimation techniques used by the Group to determine the general insurance business outstanding claims provisions and of the methodology and assumptions used in determining the long-term business provisions.
These approaches are designed to allow for the appropriate cost of policy-related liabilities, with a degree of prudence, to give a result within the normal range of outcomes.
However, the actual cost of settling these liabilities may differ, for example because experience may be worse than that assumed, or future general insurance business claims inflation may differ from that expected, and hence there is uncertainty in respect of these liabilities.
b Asbestos, pollution and social environmental hazards In the course of conducting insurance business, various companies within the Group receive general insurance liability claims, and become involved in actual or threatened related litigation arising there from, including claims in respect of pollution and other environmental hazards.
Amongst these are claims in respect of asbestos production and handling in various jurisdictions, including Europe, Canada and Australia.
Given the significant delays that are experienced in the notification of these claims, the potential number of incidents which they cover and the uncertainties associated with establishing liability, the ultimate cost cannot be determined with certainty.
However, on the basis of current information having regard to the level of provisions made for general insurance claims and substantial reinsurance cover now in place, the directors consider that any additional costs arising are not likely to have a material impact on the financial position of the Group.
c Guarantees on long-term savings products As a normal part of their operating activities, various Group companies have given guarantees and options, including interest rate guarantees, in respect of certain long-term insurance and investment products.
Note 42 gives details of these guarantees and options.
In providing these guarantees and options, the Groups capital position is sensitive to fluctuations in financial variables including foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, property values and equity prices.
Interest rate guaranteed returns, such as those available on guaranteed annuity options, are sensitive to interest rates falling below the guaranteed level.
Other guarantees, such as maturity value guarantees and guarantees in relation to minimum rates of return, are sensitive to fluctuations in the investment return below the level assumed when the guarantee was made.
The directors continue to believe that the existing provisions for such guarantees and options are sufficient.
230 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 230 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 IFRS Financial statements 52 Contingent liabilities and other risk factors continued d Regulatory compliance The Groups insurance and investment business is subject to local regulation in each of the countries in which it operates.
A number of the Groups UK subsidiaries are dual regulated directly authorised by both the PRA for prudential regulation and the FCA for conduct regulation whilst others are solo regulated regulated solely by the FCA for both prudential and conduct regulation.
Between them, the PRA and FCA have broad powers including the authority to grant, vary the terms of, or cancel a regulated firms authorisation: to investigate marketing and sales practices: and to require the maintenance of adequate financial resources.
The Groups regulators outside the UK typically have similar powers, but in some cases they also operate a system of prior product approval.
The Groups regulated businesses have compliance resources to respond to regulatory enquiries in a constructive way, and take corrective action when warranted.
However, all regulated financial services companies face the risk that their regulator could find that they have failed to comply with applicable regulations or have not undertaken corrective action as required.
The impact of any such finding whether in the UK or overseas could have a negative impact on the Groups reported results or on its relations with current and potential customers.
Regulatory action against a member of the Group could result in adverse publicity for, or negative perceptions regarding, the Group, or could have a material adverse effect on the business of the Group, its results of operations and or financial condition and divert managements attention from the day-to-day management of the business.
e Structured settlements The Company has purchased annuities from licensed Canadian life insurers to provide for fixed and recurring payments to claimants.
As a result of these arrangements, the Company is exposed to credit risk to the extent that any of the life insurers fail to fulfill their obligations.
The Companys maximum exposure to credit risk for these types of arrangements is approximately CAD$1,212 million as at 31 December 2015 2014: CAD$1,224 million.
Credit risk is managed by acquiring annuities from a diverse portfolio of life insurers with proven financial stability.
This risk is reduced to the extent of coverage provided by Assuris, the Canadian life insurance industry compensation plan.
As at 31 December 2015, no information has come to the Companys attention that would suggest any weakness or failure in life insurers from which it has purchased annuities and consequently no provision for credit risk is required.
f Other In the course of conducting insurance and investment business, various Group companies receive liability claims, and become involved in actual or threatened related litigation.
In the opinion of the directors, adequate provisions have been established for such claims and no material loss will arise in this respect.
In addition, in line with standard business practice, various Group companies have given guarantees, indemnities and warranties in connection with disposals in recent years of subsidiaries and associates to parties outside the Aviva Group.
In the opinion of the directors, no material unprovisioned loss will arise in respect of these guarantees, indemnities and warranties.
There are a number of charges registered over the assets of Group companies in favour of other Group companies or third parties.
In addition, certain of the Companys assets are charged in favour of certain of its subsidiaries as security for intra-Group loans.
The Groups insurance subsidiaries pay contributions to levy schemes in several countries in which we operate.
Given the economic environment, there is a heightened risk that the levy contributions will need to be increased to protect policyholders if an insurance company falls into financial difficulties.
The directors continue to monitor the situation but are not aware of any need to increase provisions at the statement of financial position date.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 231 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 231
