IFRS Financial statements 7 Finance costs This note analyses the interest costs on our borrowings which are described in note 49 and similar charges.
Finance costs comprise: 2015 2014 m m Interest expense on core structural borrowings Subordinated debt 335 289 Long-term senior debt 14 19 Commercial paper 1 2 350 310 Interest expense on operational borrowings Amounts owed to financial institutions 48 48 Securitised mortgage loan notes at fair value 84 87 132 135 Interest on collateral received 13 18 Net finance charge on pension schemes note 48 b i 25 13 Unwind of discount on GI reserves 2 6 Extinguishment of debt 13 Other similar charges 83 58 Total finance costs 618 540 8 Long-term business economic volatility The long-term nature of much of the Groups operations means that, for managements decision-making and internal performance management, the effects of short-term economic volatility are treated as non-operating items.
The Group focuses instead on an operating profit measure that incorporates an expected return on investments supporting its long-term business, as described below.
a Definitions Operating profit for long-term business is based on expected investment returns on financial investments backing shareholder and policyholder funds over the reporting period, with consistent allowance for the corresponding expected movements in liabilities.
Operating profit includes the effect of variance in experience for non-economic items, such as mortality, persistency and expenses, and the effect of changes in non-economic assumptions, where not treated as exceptional.
Changes due to economic items, such as market value movements and interest rate changes, which give rise to variances between actual and expected investment returns, and the impact of changes in economic assumptions on liabilities, are disclosed separately outside operating profit.
b Economic volatility The investment variances and economic assumption changes excluded from the long-term business operating profit are as follows: 2015 2014 Life business m m Investment variances and economic assumptions 14 72 Investment variances were 14 million positive 2014: 72 million positive with positive movements in France and Asia, partially offset by a negative variance in Italy.
The positive variance in France reflects realised bond gains and equity outperformance, while the positive variance in Asia is driven by increasing interest rates in Singapore, which have reduced liabilities by more than asset values.
The negative variance in Italy is driven by widening credit spreads.
The investment variance was largely neutral in the UK, reflecting the positive variance from the reduction in equity release asset default provisions following favourable property market performance, offset by the negative impact of widening credit spreads.
In 2014, positive variances were mainly driven by lower risk-free rates and narrowing credit spreads on government and corporate bonds in Italy and Spain.
Negative variances in the UK were due to the adverse impact of falling reinvestment yields net of improved underlying property values on commercial mortgages partly offset by a change to the model used to value certain equity release assets and the consequential impact on the liabilities that they back.
c Methodology The expected investment returns and corresponding expected movements in long-term business liabilities are calculated separately for each principal long-term business unit.
The expected return on investments for both policyholders and shareholders funds is based on opening economic assumptions applied to the expected funds under management over the reporting period.
Expected investment return assumptions are derived actively, based on market yields on risk-free fixed interest assets at the end of each financial year.
The same margins are applied on a consistent basis across the Group to gross risk-free yields, to obtain investment return assumptions for equities and properties.
Expected funds under management are equal to the opening value of funds under management, adjusted for sales and purchases during the period arising from expected operating experience.
The actual investment return is affected by differences between the actual and expected funds under management and changes in asset mix, as well as movements in interest rates.
To the extent that these differences arise from the operating experience of the long-term business, or management decisions to change asset mix, the effect is included in the operating profit.
The residual difference between actual and expected investment return is included in investment variances, outside operating profit but included in profit before tax.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 167 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 167
