The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The financial statements for the year ended 31 October 2015 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
IFRSs comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that IFRSs have been adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and on the historical cost basis, except for the measurement at fair value of investments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below and have been applied consistently throughout the year.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice the SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies the AIC in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRSs, the Directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis consistent with the recommendations of the SORP.
Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters discussed in connection with the viability statement, the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Accounting Standards i The following new and amended standards are applicable to the Company and have been adopted although they have had no impact on the financial statements: IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 narrow scope amendments allow hedge accounting to continue in a situation where a derivative, which has been designated as a hedging instrument, is novated to effect clearing with a central counterparty as a result of laws or regulation, if specific conditions are met in this context, a novation indicates that parties to a contract agree to replace their original counterparty with a new one.
IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 updates the application guidance in IAS 32, to clarify some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
ii New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the current financial year and not early adopted bytheCompany: IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements effective for annual periods on or after 1 January 2016 these amendments are as part of the IASB initiative to improve presentation and disclosure in financial reports.
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, subject to EU endorsement.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 was issued in November 2009 and October 2010.
Itreplaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 requires financial assets to be classified into two measurement categories: those measured at fair value and those at amortised cost.
The determination is made at initial recognition.
The classification depends on the entitys business model for managing its financial instruments and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instrument.
For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the IAS 39 requirements.
The main change is that, in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change due to an entitys own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting mismatch.
The Company is yet to assess IFRS 9s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 9 no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2018, subject to endorsement by the EU.
b Investments held at fair value through profit or loss All investments are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value through profit or loss.
Investment transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
Assets are fide-recognised at the trade date of the disposal.
Proceeds are measured at fair value, which are regarded as the proceeds of sale less any transaction costs.
The fair value of the financial instruments in the statement of financial position is based on their quoted bid price at the statement of financial position date, without deduction of the estimated future selling costs.
Unquoted investments are valued by the Directors using primary valuation techniques such as earnings multiples, recent transactions and net assets.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as Gains or losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Also included within this caption are transaction costs in relation to the purchase or sale of investments, including the difference between the purchase price of an investment and its bid price at the date of the purchase.
