The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued Corporate Responsibility Employees, Social, Community, Human Rights Responsible investment and Environmental Matters Henderson is responsible for reporting on its work on corporate The Companys core activities are undertaken by Henderson which governance and corporate responsibility or social, environmental has implemented environmental management practices including andethical SEE issues in the companies in which it invests on systems to limit the use of non-renewable resources and to minimise itsclients behalf across all funds as part of its management duties.
the impact of operations on the environment, and is focused on In May 2005 Henderson became a founding signatory to the United reducing greenhouse gas emissions and minimising waste, where Nations Principles for Responsible Investment.
The Company has therefore not reported on these or social, developed under the auspices of the UN Secretary-General, are a community or human rights issues here: Hendersons policies are voluntary and aspirational framework for incorporating environmental, included in its Annual Report which can be found on its website.
social and corporate governance ESG issues into mainstream investment decision-making and ownership practices.
Hendersons corporate responsibility statement is included on its website.
In 2012 it was granted CarbonNeutral Company status The way companies respond to sustainability and corporate which it has committed to maintain at least untilthe end of 2018. responsibility can affect their business performance, both directly and indirectly.
An investee companys policy on social responsibility and the The Companys Annual Report is printed on paper produced using environment is considered by Hendersons risk team but investments 50% recycled post-consumer waste and 50% wood fibre from fully are not ruled out on social and environmental grounds only.
sustainable forests with certification by the Forest Stewardship Council: the printing company used is certified as Carbon Neutral.
Voting Policy and the UK Stewardship Code Hendersons responsible investment policy sets out its approach to Board Diversity corporate governance and corporate responsibility for all the As set out on page 23, at the year end one of the Companys companies in which it invests on behalf of its clients and its policy on Directors was female and the other four were male.
The policy also sets out how Henderson implements the consider diversity when making appointments to the Board, taking Stewardship Code.
The Company has reviewed the policy and has into account skills, experience, knowledge and gender.
However, it is delegated responsibility for voting to Henderson.
The Board receives not considered appropriate to have set targets in relation to diversity.
regular reports on the voting undertaken by Henderson on behalf of The Company has no employees and therefore there is nothing the Company.
The Board and Henderson believe that voting at further to report in respect of gender representation within the general meetings is an important aspect of corporate stewardship and Company.
a means of signalling shareholder views on Board policy, practices and performance.
Voting recommendations are guided by the best By order of the Board interests of the investee companies shareholders.
Depending on the nature of the resolution the Fund Manager will give specific instructions on voting on non-routine and unusual or controversial resolutions.
Decisions not to support resolutions and the rationale for doing so are fed back to the investee company prior to voting.
Richard Killingbeck The Henderson responsible investment policy and further details of Hendersons responsible investment activities can be found on the Chairman Henderson website, www.
