The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued Status The Company is an investment company as defined in Section 833 The Company has obtained approval from HM Revenue & Customs of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, is registered in England HMRC of its status as an investment trust under Section 1158: and Wales and operates as an investment trust in accordance with the Directors are of the opinion that the Company has conducted Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158, itsaffairs in compliance with Section 1158 since approval was is subject to the UK Listing Authoritys Rules of the Financial granted and intends to continue to do so.
The Company is liable Conduct Authority and is governed by its Articles of Association, tocorporation tax on its net revenue profits but is exempt from amendments to which must be approved by shareholders by way corporation tax on capital gains if it has complied at all times with of a special resolution.
The Company is notaclose company.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board, with the assistance of Henderson, has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company and has put in place a schedule of investment limits and restrictions, appropriate to the Companys investment objective and policy, in order to mitigate these risks as far as practicable.
The principal risks which have been identified, and the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these as far as practicable, and whether the Board considers the impact of such risks has changed over the past year, are as follows: Risk Controls and mitigation Investment Activity and Performance Risks An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in terms of asset The Board monitors investment performance at each Board meeting allocation or the level of gearing may result in underperformance and regularly reviews the extent of its borrowings.
against the Companys benchmark index and the companies in its peer group.
Portfolio and Market Risks Although the Company invests almost entirely in securities that The Fund Manager seeks to maintain a diversified portfolio to arelisted on recognised markets, share prices may move rapidly.
The Board regularly reviews the portfolio, Thecompanies in which investments are made may operate investment activity and performance.
A fall in the market value of the Companys portfolio would have an adverse effect on shareholders funds.
Tax and Regulatory Risks A breach of Section 1158 could lead to a loss of investment trust Henderson has been contracted to provide investment, company status, resulting in capital gains realised within the portfolio being secretarial, administration and accounting services through qualified subject to corporation tax.
A breach of the UK Listing Rules could professionals.
The Board receives internal control reports produced result in suspension of the Companys shares, while a breach of the by Henderson on a quarterly basis, which confirm legal and Companies Act could lead to criminal proceedings.
could result in financial or reputational damage.
The Company must also ensure compliance with the Listing Rules of the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
Financial Risks By its nature as an investment trust, the Companys business The Company minimises the risk of a counterparty failing to deliver activities are exposed to market risk including market price risk, securities or cash by dealing through organisations that have currency risk and interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit and undergone rigorous due diligence by Henderson.
The Company has counterparty risk.
a diversified portfolio which comprises mainly investments in large and medium-sized companies and mitigates the Companys exposure to liquidity risk.
Operational Risks Disruption to, or failure of, Hendersons accounting, dealing or The Board monitors the services provided by Henderson and its payment systems or the Depositarys records could prevent the other suppliers and receives reports on the key elements in place to accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial provide effective internal control.
The Company is also exposed to the operational risk that one or more of its service providers may not provide the required level of service.
The Board considers these risks to have remained unchanged throughout the year under review.
