The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Statement of Directors Responsibilities under including the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial DTR 4.1.
12 Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Each of the Directors, who are listed on page 23, confirms that, to Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements the best of his or her knowledge: for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the financial statements in accordance with International Financial the Companys financial statements, which have been prepared in Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Company: and view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Strategic Report in this Annual Report and financial the Directors are required to: statements includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, select suitable accounting policies and then apply them together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties consistently: that it faces.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: For and on behalf of the Board state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Richard Killingbeck prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Chairman unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 18 January 2016 continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable it to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Directors consider that the Annual Report and financial statements, taken asawhole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The financial statements are published on the changes that have occurred to the Annual Report since it was www.
com website, which is a initially presented on the website.
websitemaintained by the Companys Manager, Henderson.
Themaintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Henderson or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the Company, the responsibility of Henderson.
The work carried out financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
by the Auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditor accepts no responsibility for any 32
