The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report: Glossary Alternative Investment Fund Managers Gearing Gearing means borrowing money to buy assets with the expectation that Directive AIFMD the return on investments bought will exceed the interest cost ofthe Agreed by the European Parliament and the Council of the European borrowings.
The gearing percentage reects the amount of borrowings Union and transposed into UK legislation, the AIFMD classies certain eg bank loans, overdrafts and debt securities the Company has used to investment vehicles, including investment companies, as Alternative invest in the market and is calculated by taking the difference between Investment Funds AIFs and requires them to appoint an Alternative non-current asset investments and equity shareholders funds dividing Investment Fund Manager AIFM and Depositary to manage and by equity shareholders funds and multiplying by 100.
The Company can oversee the operations of the investment vehicle.
The Board of the use synthetic gearing through derivatives.
Company retains responsibility for strategy, operations and compliance and the Directors retain a duciary duty to shareholders.
Investment Trusts Investment trusts are public limited companies, listed on the London Association of Investment Companies AIC Stock Exchange, which provide shareholders with a professionally The Company is a member of the AIC which is the trade body for managed portfolio of investments.
Investment trusts are exempt from investment companies and represents the industry in relation to tax on the capital gains arising on their investments subject to various matters which impact the regulation of such entities.
Income, net of expenses and tax, is substantially distributed to shareholders.
Investment trusts are also Custodian known as investment companies although the tax legislation retains the reference to investment trusts.
The Custodian is responsible for ensuring the safe custody of the Companys assets and that all transactions in the underlying holdings are transacted in an accurate and timely manner.
Liquidity In the context of the liquidity of shares in the stock market, this refers Depositary to the availability of buyers in the market for the share in question.
Where the market in a particular share is described as liquid that With effect from 22 July 2014 AIFs were required to appoint a share will be in demand and holders wishing to sell their shares Depositary which has responsibility for overseeing the operations of should nd ready buyers.
Conversely, where the market in a share is the Company, including safekeeping, cash monitoring and verication illiquid the difficulty of nding a buyer will tend to depress the price of ownership and valuation of the underlying holdings.
The that might be negotiated for a sale.
Depositary is strictly liable for the loss of any investments or other assets in its custody unless it has notied that it has discharged its liability in certain markets.
TheDepositary has confirmed that it has Market Capitalisation Market Cap not discharged liability inrelation to any of the Companys assets.
The market value of a company calculated by multiplying the mid-market price per share by the number of shares in issue.
Derivative A contract between two or more parties in relation to an underlying Net Asset Value NAV per Ordinary Share security.
The value of a derivative will uctuate in accordance with The value of the Companys assets ie investments and cash held the value of the security and is a form of gearing as the uctuations less any liabilities eg bank borrowings and debt securities for which in value are usually greater than the uctuations in the underlying the Company is responsible divided by the number of shares in issue.
Examples of derivatives are put and call options, The aggregate NAV is also referred to as shareholders funds in the swap contracts, futures and contracts for difference.
The NAV per share is published daily.
Dividend Dates Premium Discount When declared or recommended, each dividend will have three key The amount by which the market price per share of an investment dates applied to it.
The payment date is the date on which company is either higher premium or lower discount than the NAV shareholders will receive their dividend either by BACS transfer or by per share, expressed as a percentage of the NAV per share.
The record date applied to the dividend is used as a cut-off for the Companys registrars to know which shareholders should be paid a dividend.
Only shareholders on the Total Return Performance register of members at the close of business on the record date will This is the return on the share price or NAV per share taking into receive the dividend.
The ex-dividend date is the business day before account both the rise and fall of the share price or NAV respectively and the record date and is the date upon which the Companys net asset the dividends and interest paid to shareholders during a given period.
value per share will be disclosed ex-dividend.
Any dividends received by a shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in either additional shares for share price total return or the Companys assets for NAV per share total return.
Dividend Yield The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share price.
