The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued In May 2015 the Company issued 50 million of fixed rate 20 year Viability Statement privateplacement loan notes at an annualised coupon rate of 3.68%.
The Directors have assessed the viability of the Company over a Actual gearing at 31 October 2015 was 2.0% 2014:2.6% of three year period, taking account of the Companys current position netasset value.
and the potential impact of the principal risks and uncertainties documented in this Strategic Report.
Performance Measurement and Key The Directors conducted the assessment based on a period of three Performance Indicators KPIs years because they consider this to be an appropriate period over which In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting its they do not expect there to be any significant change in the current objectives and to evaluate the performance of Henderson the principal risks and adequacy of the mitigating controls in place.
Also the Directors take into account the following KPIs: Directors do not envisage any change in strategy or objectives or any events that would prevent the Company from continuing to operate over that period as the Companys assets are liquid, its commitments Performance measured against various indices are limited and the Company intends to continue to operate as an The Board reviews and compares, at each meeting, the performance investment trust.
of the portfolio as well as the net asset value and share price for the Company and various indices.
The assessment has considered the impact of the likelihood of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company, in particular Discount premium to net asset value NAV Investment Activity and Performance, Portfolio and Market and The Company publishes a NAV per share figure on a daily basis Financial risks, in severe but plausible scenarios, and the through the official newswire of the London Stock Exchange.
This effectiveness of any mitigating controls in place.
figure is calculated in accordance with the Association of Investment Companies AIC formula.
At each Board meeting, the Board The Directors also took into account the liquidity of the portfolio, the monitors the level of the Companys discount premium to NAV and gearing and the income stream from the portfolio in considering the reviews the average discount premium for the Companys relevant viability of the Company over the next three years and its ability to AIC sector.
meet liabilities as they fall due.
This included consideration of the duration of the Companys long term borrowings, how the forecast The Board considers the use of share buy-backs and share issues to income stream, expenditure and levels of reserves could impact on enhance shareholder value.
During the financial year the Company the Companys ability to pay dividends to shareholders over that bought back 25,000 shares for cancellation at a discount to NAV period in line with its current dividend policy.
Whilst detailed forecasts are only made over a shorter time frame, the nature of the Companys 2014:nil and issued 1,000,000 shares at a premium to NAV business as an investment trust means that such forecasts are equally 2014:350,000. valid to be considered over the longer three year period as a means of assessing whether the Company can continue in operation.
This Performance against the Companys peer group included consideration of the duration of the Companys fixed term In addition to comparison against the various indices the Board also debt and how a breach of the gearing covenants could impact on the considers the performance of its AIC peer group and its open-ended Companys net asset value and share price.
equivalent, the IMA Growth Sector, at each Board meeting.
Based on their assessment, the Directors have a reasonable Ongoing charge expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and The ongoing charge is a measure of the total expenses incurred by meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three year period.
Only the Company, including those charged to capital, expressed as a substantial financial crisis affecting the global economy could have an apercentage of the average shareholders funds over the year.
Theongoing charge, before borrowing costs, amounted to 0.52% 2014:0.53% of the shareholders funds of the Company.
The Borrowing Board regularly reviews the ongoing charge and monitors all the The Company had a loan facility of up to 30 million which was Companys expenses.
Themaximum amount drawn down in theperiod under review was 11.8million 2014:9.9million with Future Developments borrowing and non-utilisation costs for the year totalling 60,000 While the future performance of the Company is mainly dependent on 2014:125,000. the performance of global financial markets which are subject to various external factors, the Boards intention is that the Company will The Company has two debentures, the 10.5% 10 million 2016debenture and the 8% 15 million 2023 debenture.
continue to pursue its stated investment objectives and policy explained on page 4.
The Chairmans Statement and Fund Manager The10.5% 10million 2016 debenture is due to be repaid on31October2016.
Reports provide commentary on the outlook for the Company.
