The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Contents General Shareholder Information Strategic Report Corporate Report Investment Objectives and Policy 1 Report of the Directors 30-31 AIFMD Disclosures ISA Performance Highlights 2-3 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 32 Periodic disclosures required in accordance with the Alternative The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs in order to Investment Fund Managers Directive are included within a Key qualify as an eligible investment for a stocks and shares ISA.
Business Model 4 Directors Remuneration Report 33-34 Investor Information Document KIID which can be found on the Strategy 4 Corporate Governance Statement 35-37 Companys website www.
Investment Objectives 4 Non-Mainstream Pooled Investments NMPI Investment Policy 4 Report of the Audit Committee 38-39 status Management 4 BACS Independent Auditors Report to the members Management Fee 4 The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its ordinary shares of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC 40-42 Dividends can be paid to shareholders by means of BACS Bankers of 25p each can be recommended by IFAs to ordinary retail investors Chairmans Statement 5-6 Automated Clearing Services : mandate forms for this purpose are Financial Statements in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA rules in available from the UK Registrar, Equiniti Limited.
Alternatively, Fund Managers Review 7 relation to non-mainstream investment products and intends to Statement of Comprehensive Income 43 shareholders can write to the UK Registrar the address is given on continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
The shares are excluded Statistical Record 8 page 24 to give their instructions: these must include the bank Statement of Changes inEquity 44 from the FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream account number, the bank account title and the sort code of the bank Rates of Exchange 8 investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
Statement of Financial Position 45 to which payments are to be made.
Distribution of Assets and Liabilities 8 Cash Flow Statement 46 Shareholders on the register in New Zealand can have their Performance Details Share Price Information Largest Investments 9 Notes to the Financial Statements 47-64 dividends paid in New Zealand dollars by writing to the New Zealand Details of the Companys share price and NAV per share can be found Changes in Investments 9 Registrar, Computershare Investor Services plc the address isgiven General Shareholder Information IBC on the website.
Fund Manager Reports 10-21 The Companys NAV per share is published daily.
United Kingdom 10 Europe 12 Equality Act 2010 Share Price Listings North America 14 Copies of this report and other documents issued by the Company Japan 16 The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is published daily are available from the Corporate Secretary.
If needed, copies can be Pacic ex Japan 18 in The Financial Times.
The Financial Times also shows gures for made available in a variety of formats, including Braille or larger type China 20 the estimated NAV per share and the discount.
Emerging Markets 21 The market price of the Companys shares can be found in the Portfolio Structure 22 You can contact the Registrar, which has installed textphones to allow London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List.
Geographical Analysis 22 speech and hearing impaired people who have their own textphone Geographical Total Return Analysis 22 to contact them directly, without the need for an intermediate operator Sector Analysis 22 by dialling 0371 384 2255.
Specially trained operators are available Shareholder Details during normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
Corporate Information 23-27 Shareholders who hold their shares in certicated form can check Directors 23 their shareholding with the Registrar contact details can be found Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator Registered Ofce 24 onpage 24. provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People dial 18001 Service Providers 24 followed by the number you wish to dial.
Independent Auditor 24 There is now a range of shareholder information online.
You can Financial Calendar 24 check your holding and nd practical help on transferring shares Information Sources 24 orupdating your details at www.
Investing 24 Nominee Share Code 24 Status 25 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 25 Viability Statement 26 Borrowing 26 Performance Measurement and Key Performance Indicators 26 Warning to Shareholders Future Developments 26 Corporate Responsibility 27 Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have Please note that it is very unlikely that either the Company or the Voting Policy and the UK Stewardship Code 27 received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning Companys UK Registrar, Equiniti Limited or the New Zealand Employees, Social, Community, Human Rights Registrar, Computershare Investor Services plc would make investment matters.
These are typically from overseas-based and Environmental Matters 27 'brokers' who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders and that any such calls Board Diversity 27 often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK would relate only to ofcial documentation already circulated to investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely shareholders and never in respect of investment 'advice'.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary ofany unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited phone offers of free company reports.
call, please call either the Corporate Secretary or the Registrar at the numbers provided on page 24.
The image on the front cover is based on the HSBC Bank Building in Hong Kong.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended October 2015 HGI9201 2015 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Registered as an investment company in England and Wales.
THE BANKERS ISIN code: GB0000767003 SEDOL number: 0076700 London Stock Exchange EPIC Code: BNKR Global Intermediary Identication Number GIIN : L5YVFP.
826 INVESTMENT Legal Entity Identier LEI : 213800B9YWXL3X1VMZ69 Telephone: 020 7818 1818 Email: trusts@henderson.
com Annual Report 2015 This report is printed on cocoon silk 50% recycled, a recycled paper containing 50% recycled waste and 50% virgin bre and manufactured at a mill certied with ISO 14001 environmental management standard.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free process ECF.
The FSC logo identies products which contain wood from well managed forests certied in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
