com Annual report 2015 49 Operational update Technology and operational capability are transforming theway we transact business.
Ian Fantozzi Chief operating officer Beazley continues to demonstrate profitable growth, and we have developed a diversified underwriting portfolio that distributes globally, through 25 offices.
To support this growth we have developed a scalable and efficient operating platform that through focused investment has become an important competitive advantage.
We are a specialist insurer and our success relies heavily upon the expertise of our underwriters and claims managers and their ability to move quickly to meet client needs.
A vital role of operations is to give our underwriters and claims professionals the tools and the support to do this job.
Equally, we want to ensure that our brokers can access this expertise and our insurance products as easily and efficiently as possible.
In view of this, much of our focus in the last year has been on increasing our distribution through the use of technology, whilst capturing valuable data on how our business is transacted.
This data can then be used to modify both our products and our services to best meet market demand.
A high performing global operations function relies on us maintaining consistency in operational standards throughout the group, while, simultaneously, being prepared to try new things and leverage our depth of insurance operations expertise to give us a lead over the competition.
In order to achieve this, we pursue our group operations strategy.
This has five areas of focus: Supporting growth initiatives In support of our strategic growth initiatives such as in the US, Europe, and Asia Pacific, we have continued to enhance our infrastructure so that we can bring attractive new products to market as efficiently as possible Beazley best practice protect, and marine pleasure craft are examples of two new types of insurance product that we launched in 2015.
We also continue to explore new ways to improve access to our specialist products.
This year we launched a new technology solution called myRate.
This is a global rating solution that we are rolling out to our underwriters, starting with our Employment Practices Liability team.
This differs from other pricing tools, in its potential to be made outwards facing and allow not just underwriters but also brokers and coverholders to access the tool directly significantly reducing the time taken for them to produce a quote.
The myRate technology also underpins another innovative solution that went from strength to strength this year myBeazley.
Now in its second year, we continue to broaden the product set available on the platform.
myBeazley was very much designed with ease of use in mind, and we were pleased to receive the Lloyds Innovation Award for myBeazley in November 2015.
Supporting business growth relies on effective processes and systems, but it is also important that we have a high quality working environment that is conducive to team working and thought leadership.
Our offices are open plan, bright and airy with a style and consistency that supports our global brand.
We strive to get the best quality working space at the best lease and facility cost.
In 2015, we opened a new office in Los Angeles, and relocated to larger offices in Sydney and Singapore further improving market access for our underwriters geographically.
We have also increased the size of our global processing and support centre based in Farmington, Connecticut, US a location that benefits from good access to local insurance operations talent.
com 50 Operational update continued Cost efficiency Beazley is organised to a large degree around global underwriting and claims teams.
This model has served us well in ensuring that products that succeed in one market can be swiftly introduced in others.
However it is important that this does not result in back office systems and support resources becoming duplicative or the administration of insurance transactions impeding the business in any way.
In pursuit of greater efficiency and consistency of operational service, we have been centralising operations support or outsourcing it where this brings further value.
We want to make sure that operations and processing are done by appropriately skilled people, at the most cost effective location, whilst providing the best service levels.
In 2015, we centralised support for our global claims team as we have already done for our underwriting support.
This addition to central operations support further enhances our ability to seek economies of scale, and balance support across different functions of the business.
Being able to scale up through outsourcing is increasingly important as we further diversify into higher volume market segments, notably via our small business products in the US and Europe.
In 2015, we agreed new outsourcing agreements that allow us to more efficiently scale our operational platform whilst maintaining a balance with our in-house expertise.
This year we continued to increase the amount of process automation in our back-office for our higher volume products in the US and Europe.
Our investment in process automation is key to supporting increased transaction volumes and revenue, without having to scale up our expense base.
Managing operational risk effectively Effective risk management requires clear visibility of the level of operational risk we maintain.
Critical to supporting an effective control environment is consistency of ownership for operations support and the provision of management information.
As we continue to make our operational support more efficient, we have defined clear ownership for processes, establishing clear accountability for process execution and planning.
This simplifies operational control reporting and strengthens our ability to provide a coordinated, rapid response to support business growth opportunities.
An area of heightening operational risk for the financial services industry is information security and the risk of a cyber attack.
We have a dedicated in-house information security team, which is integrated with our Beazley breach response team.
We apply rigour to our information security environment with our infrastructure and controls organised around four key pillars: Prepare, Protect, Detect, and Improve.
We also work closely with a number of industry specialists both to bring additional expertise to our in-house team, and keep us abreast of potential new threats in this rapidly changing landscape.
With each year, we transact more business electronically in our markets.
This brings greater efficiency but also places more emphasis on the need to have a scalable and resilient technology infrastructure.
In 2015, we upgraded our global IT data centres to ensure a system with further resilience and scalability.
com Annual report 2015 51 Enabling product and service innovation Our strategy focuses on two types of innovation.
Firstly, there is insurance product innovation, which requires an operational platform that facilitates an efficient product pipeline from idea development through to product launch.
Secondly, there is the development of new or enhanced tools and support services that enable our employees to perform optimally in their roles.
A continuing focus for us has been strengthening our ability to take new product ideas more quickly from the drawing board to the underwriting stamp.
We have built dedicated teams in both London and the US to co-ordinate the product innovation process, and then to bring all the operational components together for a successful market launch.
In 2015, we were able to offer a new type of electronic distribution channel to our UK brokers.
Using the myBeazley platform, our UK brokers can now deliver electronic insurance risk submission and pricing screens straight to the customer.
This interfaces directly with our internal IT platforms, creating a highly efficient model for our brokers and also for our own internal processing.
In parallel, we are able to track data about how our products are selling and make adjustments with great speed.
Managing for performance A market differentiator for Beazley is the high level of experience that we have built within our global operations team.
Whether providing support services or delivering large projects, we know what works and what does not.
The operations team and the underwriting teams have developed strong working relationships over the years, and collectively we have developed considerable expertise in bringing new products and distribution channels to fruition.
As with all Beazley talent we recognise the importance of developing attractive career paths.
We want to equip our operations team with the right skills for the job.
We routinely review our talent for potential skills gaps and then provide the most relevant training to ensure a high standard of service provision.
Growing across different markets entails greater operational complexity and a requirement for additional skills in our staff.
We do not want to be limited to specific geographic pools of skilled individuals, such as project managers, IT specialists and business analysts.
Some locations such as London also have higher unit costs both to hire and to accommodate employees.
With this in mind, we continue to improve our sourcing channels to tap into different skilled resource pools.
Where possible, if we can deliver a service competently from a remote location, we will aim to do so better leveraging our more operationally oriented locations, notably Farmington, Connecticut and from 2015, Atlanta.
Looking ahead Two areas of focus for 2016, are firstly, continuing to increase our ability to efficiently scale up operational support in areas where we see greatest growth potential and margin, such as in the US market.
Secondly, continuing to research and develop innovative ways to get our products to the customer.
Working closely with our broker partners, we want to continue to make best use of technology and data insight to maximise the efficiency of getting the most appropriate insurance cover for our customers.
We place great importance on maintaining consistency in our approach to delivering high quality service and continually improving operational efficiency.
We have a highly experienced operations team to deliver on the above strategic objectives and we take great pride in our ability to create competitive advantage through operational service provision and in our ability to react quickly and efficiently to new business opportunities.
