Additional information Shareholder Information Forward-looking statements Our website Where this Annual Report contains forward-looking statements, All shareholders and potential shareholders can gain access to the these are made by the Directors in good faith based on the Annual Report, presentations to investors, key financial information available to them at the time of their approval of this information, regulatory news, share and dividend data, AGM Annual Report.
These statements should be treated with caution documentation and other significant information about BGEO at due to the inherent risks and uncertainties underlying any such http: www.
The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors, including those in this Annual Report, Our registered address could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained BGEO Group PLC in any forward-looking statement.
Such factors include, but are 84 Brook Street not limited to, those discussed under Principal Risks and London W1K 5EH Uncertainties on pages 48 to 51 of the Strategic Report.
The United Kingdom Group undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forwardlooking statement, whether as a result of new information, future Annual General Meeting events or otherwise.
The Annual General Meeting of BGEO the AGM will be held at 12:00 pm London time on Thursday, 26 May 2016 at Baker & McKenzie LLP, 100 New Bridge Street, London EC4V 6JA.
Details of the business to be conducted at the AGM are contained in the Notice of AGM which will be mailed to shareholders on or about 25 April 2016 and will be available on the BGEOs website: http: bgeo.
Shareholder enquiries BGEOs share register is maintained by Computershare Investor Services PLC.
Any queries about the administration of holdings of ordinary shares, such as change of address or change of ownership, should be directed to the address or telephone number immediately below.
Holders of ordinary shares may also check details of their shareholding, subject to passing an identity check, by visiting the Registrars website: www.
co. uk or by calling the Shareholder Helpline on 44 0 370 873 5866.
Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZY United Kingdom 44 0 870 873 5866 Dividends On 16 February 2016, the Directors of BGEO declared their intention to recommend an annual dividend in the amount of GEL 2.4 per share payable in British Pounds Sterling at the prevailing rate, subject to approval by the shareholders at BGEOs AGM.
As a holding company whose principal assets are the shares of its subsidiaries, BGEO relies primarily on dividends and other statutorily and contractually permissible payments from its subsidiaries, principally the Bank, to generate reserves necessary to pay dividends to its shareholders.
If the annual dividend is approved at BGEOs AGM on 26 May 2016, BGEO envisions the following dividend timetable: Ex-Dividend Date: 7 July 2016 Record Date: 8 July 2016 Currency Conversion Date: 11 July 2016 Payment Date: 22 July 2016 218 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information Notes Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 219 Additional information Notes 220 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Galt & Taggart is a wholly-owned subsidiary of BGEO Group.
Galt & Taggart Research is a pioneer of investment research in Georgia.
We are the go-to provider of macroeconomic research on Georgia and Azerbaijan and offer a breadth of coverage across various sectors, as well as deep expertise in each of them.
Our team of Georgian and Azerbaijani finance and economic experts have dedicated areas of coverage, providing timely analysis and insights for our clients.
Macro Portal Macro Research Sector and Fixed Income Research Sign up at www.
ge for free access to Galt & Taggart research reports BGEO GroupAnnual Report 2015 www.
com We launched our new web-site for BGEO in 2015 Most Main visited menu documents 1 3 Research News reports 2 4
