BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED 32 NOTES TO THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 Notes to the Audited Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 6.
Taxation continued In the event a class closure resolution is passed, Shareholders in the relevant class will have the following options offered to them: penalties would be recognised by the Company as tax expense in the Statement of Operations if the tax positions were deemed not i to redeem all or some of their shares at NAV per share less a to meet the more-likely-than-not threshold.
proportion of the costs and expenses of the class closure vote and other outstanding costs and expenses of the Company The Company analyses all open tax years for all major taxing attributable to the relevant class including, if relevant, any jurisdictions.
Open tax years are those that are open for redemption fees : examination by taxing authorities, as defined by the Statute of Limitations in each jurisdiction.
The Company identifies its major ii subject to certain limitations, to convert all or some of their tax jurisdictions as the Cayman Islands and foreign jurisdictions shares into shares of another class, assuming that other class where the Company makes significant investments.
The Company does not also pass a class closure resolution: or has no examinations by tax authorities in progress.
iii subject to the class continuing, to remain in the class.
The Directors have analysed the Companys tax positions, and These provisions are disclosed in more detail in the Companys have concluded that no liability for unrecognised tax benefits Articles.
should be recorded related to uncertain tax positions.
Further, the Directors are not aware of any tax positions for which it is If all classes vote in favour, the Company will be wound up.
reasonably possible that the total amounts of unrecognised tax benefits will significantly change in the next twelve months.
The Annual Offer described in note 5 which enables a partial return of capital is also part of the discount management programme.
Publication and calculation of net asset value The discount management measures will be funded by partial The NAV of the Company is equal to the value of its total assets redemptions of the Companys investment in the Master Fund.
The NAV per share of each class will be calculated by dividing the NAV of the relevant class account by During the year the Company utilised its ability to make market the number of shares of the relevant class in issue on that day.
purchases of its shares as part of the discount management programme.
The Company publishes the NAV per share for each class of shares as calculated by the Administrator based in part on The total number of shares held in treasury at 31 December 2015 information provided by the Master Fund, monthly in arrears, as at are as disclosed in note 5. each month-end.
Financial highlights The Company also publishes an estimate of the NAV per share The following tables include selected data for a single ordinary for each class of shares as calculated by the Administrator based share of each of the ordinary share classes in issue at the year in part on information provided by the Master Fund, weekly in end and other performance information derived from the Financial arrears.
Discount management programme The per share amounts and ratios which are shown reflect the income The Companys discount management programme includes the and expenses of the Company for each class of ordinary share.
ability to make market purchases of shares and the obligation to propose class closure resolutions if, in any fixed discount management period 1 January to 31 December each year, the average daily closing market price of the relevant class of shares during such period is 10% or more below the average NAV per share of the relevant class taken over the 12 monthly NAV Determination Dates in that fixed discount management period, as described more fully in the Companys principal documents.
