BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED 26 NOTES TO THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 Notes to the Audited Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 1.
The Company Off-balance sheet, market and credit risks of the Master Funds investments and activities are discussed in the notes to the The Company is a limited liability closed-ended investment Master Funds Financial Statements.
The Companys investment company incorporated in Guernsey on 17 January 2007 for an in the Master Fund exposes it to various types of risk, which are unlimited period, with registration number 46235. associated with the financial instruments and markets in which the Brevan Howard underlying funds invest.
The Company was admitted to a Secondary Listing Chapter 14 on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange on 14 March Market risk represents the potential loss in value of financial 2007.
On 11 March 2008, the Company migrated from the instruments caused by movements in market factors including, Secondary Listing to a Primary Listing pursuant to Chapter 15 but not limited to, market liquidity, investor sentiment and foreign of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
As a result of exchange rates.
changes to the UK Listing Regime, the Companys Primary Listing became a Premium Listing with effect from 6 April 2010.
The Manager Brevan Howard Capital Management LP the Manager is As of 20 October 2008 the Company obtained a Secondary the manager of the Company.
The Manager is a Jersey limited Listing on the Bermuda Stock Exchange and with effect from partnership, the general partner of which is Brevan Howard 11 November 2008, the US Dollar shares of the Company were Capital Management Limited, a Jersey limited company the admitted to a Secondary Listing on NASDAQ Dubai.
The General Partner is regulated in the conduct of fund services business by the Jersey Financial The Company offers multiple classes of ordinary shares, which Services Commission pursuant to the Financial Services Jersey differ in terms of currency of issue.
To date, ordinary shares have Law 1998 and the Orders made thereunder.
been issued in US Dollar, Euro and Sterling.
The Manager also manages the Master Fund and in that capacity, 2.
Organisation as at the date of these Financial Statements, has delegated the function of investment management of the Master Fund to The Company is organised as a feeder fund and seeks to achieve Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP, Brevan Howard Hong its investment objective by investing all of its investable assets, Kong Limited, Brevan Howard Israel Limited, Brevan Howard net of short-term working capital requirements, in the ordinary US Investment Products Limited, Brevan Howard US Investment Dollar, Euro and Sterling denominated Class B shares issued by the Management LP, DW Partners, LP and BH-DG Systematic Master Fund, and, as such, the Company is directly and materially Trading LLP.
affected by the performance and actions of the Master Fund.
Significant accounting policies The Master Fund is an open-ended investment company with limited liability formed under the laws of the Cayman Islands on The Annual Audited Financial Statements, which give a true and 22 January 2003.
The investment objective of the Master Fund fair view, are prepared in conformity with United States Generally is to generate consistent long-term appreciation through active Accepted Accounting Principles and comply with the Companies leveraged trading and investment on a global basis.
The functional and reporting currency of the Fund employs a combination of investment strategies that focus Company is US Dollars.
primarily on economic change and monetary policy and market inefficiencies.
The underlying philosophy is to construct strategies, The Company is an Investment Entity which has applied the often contingent in nature with superior risk return profiles, whose provisions of Accounting Standards Codification ASC 946. outcome will often be crystallised by an expected event occurring within a pre-determined period of time.
New trading strategies will Going Concern be added as investment opportunities present themselves.
After making enquiries and given the nature of the Company and its investment, the Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to At the date of these Financial Statements, there were two other continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these feeder funds in operation in addition to the Company that invest Financial Statements and, after due consideration, the Directors all of their assets net of working capital in the Master Fund.
consider that the Company is able to continue for the foreseeable Furthermore, Brevan Howard Multi-Strategy Master Fund Limited, future and at least twelve months from the date of this report.
In another fund managed by the Manager, invests some of its assets reaching this conclusion the Board is mindful of the nature of the in the Master Fund as at the date of these Financial Statements.
assets that underlie its investment in the Master Fund, including the Master Funds liquidity and has concluded that adverse investment As such the Financial Statements of the Company should be read in performance will not have a material impact on the Companys conjunction with the Financial Statements of the Master Fund which ability to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
can be found on the Companys website, www.
