BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED 28 NOTES TO THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 Notes to the Audited Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Cash and Bank Balances Cash and bank balances comprise cash on hand and Fair value is a market-based measure considered from the demand deposits.
perspective of a market participant rather than an entityAllocation of results of the Master Fund specific measure.
Therefore, even when market assumptions Net realised and unrealised gains losses of the Master Fund are not readily available, the Directors own assumptions are are allocated to the Companys share classes based upon the set to reflect those that market participants would use in percentage ownership of the equivalent Master Fund class.
pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date.
Treasury shares The Directors use prices and inputs that are current as of the Where the Company purchases its own share capital, the measurement date, including periods of market dislocation.
In periods consideration paid, which includes any directly attributable costs, of market dislocation, the observability of prices and inputs may be is recognised as a deduction from equity Shareholders funds reduced for many securities.
This condition could cause a security to through the Companys reserves.
be reclassified to a lower level within the fair value hierarchy.
The valuation and classification of securities held by the Master When such shares are subsequently sold or reissued to the Fund is discussed in the notes to the Master Funds Financial market, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable Statements which are available on the Companys website, incremental transaction costs, is recognised as an increase in www.
The Companys investment in the Master equity Shareholders funds through the Share capital account.
Fund is classified as a Level 2 investment.
Where the Company cancels treasury shares, no further adjustment is required to the Share capital account of the Income and expenses Company at the time of cancellation.
Shares held in treasury are The Company records monthly its proportionate share of the excluded from calculations when determining NAV per share as Master Funds income, expenses and realised and unrealised detailed in note 7 and in the Financial Highlights in note 9. gains and losses.
In addition, the Company accrues its own income and expenses.
Management, performance and administration agreements Use of estimates Management and performance fee The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with The Company has entered into a management agreement with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles requires the Manager to manage the Companys investment portfolio.
The management to make estimates and assumptions that affect Manager receives a management fee of 1 12 of 2% or a pro rata the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of proportion thereof per month of the NAV of each class of shares contingent assets and liabilities at the date of those Financial before deduction of that months management fee and before Statements and the reported amounts of increases and decreases making any deduction for any accrued performance fee as at the in net assets from operations during the reporting period.
Actual last business day in each month, payable monthly in arrears.
The results could differ from those estimates.
investment in the Class B shares of the Master Fund is not subject Leverage to management fees, but is subject to an operational service fee The Manager has discretion, subject to the prior approval of a majority payable to the Manager of 1 12 of 0.5% per month of the NAV.
of the independent Directors, to employ leverage for and on behalf of The management fee charged by the Company is reduced by the the Company by way of borrowings to effect share purchases or share Companys share of management fees incurred by the Master buy-backs, to satisfy working capital requirements and to finance Fund through any underlying investments of the Master Fund further investments in the Master Fund.
that share the same Manager as the Company.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, US$31,610,219 31 December 2014: The Company may borrow up to 20% of its NAV, calculated US$37,231,780 was earned by the Manager as net management as at the time of borrowing.
Additional borrowing over 20% of fees.
At 31 December 2015, US$2,413,156 31 December 2014: NAV may only occur if approved by an ordinary resolution of US$2,785,469 of the fee remained outstanding.
The Manager is also entitled to an annual performance fee Foreign exchange for each share class.
The performance fee is equal to 20% of Investment securities and other assets and liabilities of the Sterling the appreciation in the NAV per share of that class during that and Euro share classes are translated into US Dollars, the Companys calculation period which is above the base NAV per share of reporting currency, using exchange rates at the reporting date.
The base NAV per share is the greater of the NAV Transactions reported in the Audited Statement of Operations are per share of the relevant class at the time of issue of such share translated into US Dollar amounts at the date of such transactions.
and the highest NAV per share achieved as at the end of any The share capital and other capital reserve accounts are translated previous calculation period.
The Manager will be paid an estimated at the historic rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Exchange performance fee on the last day of the calculation period.
Within differences arising on translation are included in the Audited Statement 15 business days following the end of the calculation period, any of Operations.
This adjustment has no effect on the value of net assets difference between the actual performance fee and the estimated allocated to the individual share classes.
amount will be paid to or refunded by the Manager, as appropriate.
