BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED NOTES TO THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 31 5.
Share capital continued Annual offer of partial return of capital Once in every calendar year the Directors may, in their absolute As prescribed in the Companys Articles, the different classes of discretion, determine that the Company shall make an offer of ordinary shares have different values attributable to their votes.
a partial return of capital in respect of such number of shares The attributed values have been calculated on the basis of the of the Company in issue as they may determine provided that Weighted Voting Calculation as described in the Articles which the maximum amount distributed does not exceed 100% of the takes into account the prevailing exchange rates on the date increase in NAV of the Company in the prior calendar year.
of initial issue of ordinary shares.
On a vote, a single US Dollar ordinary share has 0.7606 votes, a single Euro ordinary share has The Directors shall, in their absolute discretion, determine the one vote and a single Sterling ordinary share has 1.4710 votes.
particular class or classes of shares in respect of which a partial return of capital will be made, the timetable for that partial return Treasury shares do not have any voting rights.
of capital and the price at which the shares of each relevant class will be returned.
Repurchase of ordinary shares The Directors have been granted authority to purchase in the Whether a partial return of capital is made in any particular year market up to 14.99% of each class of shares which was last and, if so, the amount of the return, may depend, among other granted on 18 February 2016.
The Directors may, at their things, on prevailing market conditions, the ability of the Company discretion, utilise this share repurchase authority to address any to liquidate its investments to fund the capital return, the success imbalance between the supply of and demand for shares.
of prior capital returns and applicable legal, regulatory and tax considerations.
Under the Companys Articles, Shareholders of a class of shares also have the ability to call for repurchase of that class of shares Shareholders will be able to decide at that time whether to in certain circumstances.
See note 8 for further details.
elect to participate in the capital return on the basis of the then prevailing market conditions.
Further issue of shares As approved by the Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting The Directors determined not to make a partial return of capital held on 25 June 2015, the Directors have the power to issue during 2015. further shares totalling 6,083,412 US Dollar shares, 1,667,628 Euro shares and 12,340,442 Sterling shares respectively.
This Share conversion scheme power expires fifteen months after the passing of the resolution The Company has implemented a Share Conversion Scheme.
The or on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the scheme provides Shareholders with the ability to convert some Company, whichever is earlier, unless such power is varied, or all of their ordinary shares in the Company of one class into revoked or renewed by a resolution of the Company in general ordinary shares of another class.
Shareholders are able to convert meeting.
ordinary shares on the last business day of every month.
Each conversion will be based on the NAV note 7 of the shares of the Distributions class to be converted.
The Master Fund has not previously paid dividends to its investors.
This does not prevent the Directors of the Company 6.
Taxation from declaring a dividend at any time in the future if the Directors Overview consider payment of a dividend to be appropriate in the The Company is exempt from taxation in Guernsey under circumstances.
If the Directors declare a dividend, such dividend the provisions of the Income Tax Exempt Bodies Guernsey will be paid on a per class basis.
As announced on 15 January 2014, the Company intends to Uncertain tax positions be operated in such a manner to ensure that its shares are The Company recognises the tax benefits of uncertain tax not categorised as non-mainstream pooled investments.
This positions only where the position is more-likely-than-not i. e. may mean that the Company may pay dividends in respect of greater than 50% to be sustained assuming examination by any income that it receives or is deemed to receive for UK tax a tax authority based on the technical merits of the position.
purposes so that it would qualify as an investment trust if it were In evaluating whether a tax position has met the recognition UK tax-resident.
threshold, the Company must presume that the position will Further, the Company will first apply any such income in payment be examined by the appropriate taxing authority that has full of its management and performance fees.
knowledge of all relevant information.
A tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold is measured to Treasury shares are not entitled to distributions.
determine the amount of benefit to recognise in the Companys Financial Statements.
Income tax and related interest and
