Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Significant accounting policies General information IFRSs not yet applied Caledonia Investments plc is an investment trust company domiciled At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following in the United Kingdom and incorporated in England in 1928, under the standards had been issued by the IASB but not adopted by the EU: Companies Acts 1908 to 1917.
The address of its registered office is IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Cayzer House, 30 Buckingham Gate, London SW1E 6NN.
The ordinary IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers shares of the company are premium listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards in future These financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors periods in their issued form will have no material impact on the financial on 27 May 2015. statements.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, as this is Assessment as investment entity the currency of the primary economic environment in which Caledonia Entities that meet the definition of an investment entity within IFRS 10 operates.
are required to account for most investments in controlled entities as held Key sources of estimation uncertainty at fair value through profit or loss.
Subsidiaries that provide investment Fair values of financial instruments related services or engage in permitted investment related activities with Most of the groups financial instruments are measured at fair value in the investees continue to be consolidated unless they are also investment statement of financial position and it is usually possible to determine their entities.
The board has concluded that the company meets the definition fair values within a reasonable range of estimates.
For actively traded financial instruments, quoted market prices are readily Basis of consolidation available.
For other financial instruments, such as unlisted securities, In accordance with the IFRS 10 IAS 28 Investment entities amendments, valuation techniques are used to estimate fair value.
Valuation techniques the consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of make maximum use of market inputs, including reference to the current the company and service entities controlled by the company made up to fair values of instruments that are substantially the same subject to the reporting date.
Control is achieved where the company has the power appropriate adjustments.
over the potential investee as a result of voting or other rights, has rights to positive or negative variable returns from its involvement with the Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on market investee and has the ability to use its power over the investee to affect conditions and information about the financial instrument.
These significantly the amount of its returns.
estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgement and therefore cannot be determined with Foreign currencies precision.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities Significant accounting policies denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated Basis of accounting to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with reporting date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated to the EU and therefore the group financial statements comply with Article 4 functional currency using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
IFRSs comprise accounting standards issued Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies by the International Accounting Standards Board and its predecessor that are stated at fair value are translated to the functional currency at body as well as interpretations issued by the International Financial foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values were Reporting Interpretations Committee and its predecessor body.
The financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis, In the financial statements, foreign exchange gains or losses are except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments and properties.
recognised in capital or revenue reserve depending on whether the Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature respectively.
Practice: Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP issued by the Association of Investment Companies Income in November 2014 is consistent with the requirements of IFRSs as adopted Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised as revenue when by the EU, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements the shareholders right to receive payment has been established, normally on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before the period end are treated as revenue for the The statement of comprehensive income of the company has been period.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
omitted from these financial statements in accordance with section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The fixed returns on debt securities, loans and non-equity shares are recognised on an effective interest rate basis, which is the rate that Under The UK Corporate Governance Code and applicable regulations, exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life the directors are required to satisfy themselves that it is reasonable to of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
presume that the company is a going concern.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, The companys share of net income from limited partnerships is as discussed on page 55.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going recognised as revenue when received.
concern basis of preparing the financial statements.
Where uncertainty arises over the collectability of an amount already Adopted IFRSs included in income, the uncollectible amount or the amount in respect In the current year, the group has not adopted any new standards of which the recovery has ceased to be probable, is recognised as an or interpretations.
When the uncertainty over collectability is removed, normally on receipt, the income is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
64 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Expenses National Insurance on share option scheme gains and performance share All expenses are accounted for on an accrual basis.
In the financial and deferred bonus awards statements, management expenses and performance fees are included National Insurance payable on the exercise of certain employee share in revenue reserves.
Expenses of acquisition of an investment designated options and performance share awards at the date of exercise and as held at fair value through profit or loss or expenses of an aborted deferred bonus awards at the date of call has been charged as an expense acquisition or disposal of an investment are presented as transaction spread over the respective vesting periods.
The charge is based on the costs, or deducted from the proceeds of sale as appropriate, and included difference between the market value of the underlying shares at the in capital reserves.
reporting date and the exercise price for share options or nil for performance share awards and deferred bonus awards and calculated Operating leases at the latest enacted National Insurance rate.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on Taxation a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
The tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred Employee benefits tax.
Pension schemes Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current carried out at each reporting date.
Actuarial gains and losses are tax is calculated using tax rates that were applicable at the reporting date.
recognised in full in the period in which they occur in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Past service cost is recognised immediately in the period of a plan financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the amendment.
computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the statement of financial differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that position represents the present value of the defined benefit obligations it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Investment trust this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds and companies that have approval as such under section 1159 of the reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Corporation Tax Act 2010 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
Profit sharing and bonus plans The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and profit date and adjusted to the extent that it is probable that sufficient future sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to attributable to the companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
The group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
Dividend distribution Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are appropriately Share-based payments authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity.
For interim The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain dividends, this will normally mean the date on which they are paid and, employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair for final dividends, the date on which they are approved in general value at the date of grant and the fair value is expensed on a straight-line meeting.
basis over the vesting period, based on the groups estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Investments Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where Where employees of a subsidiary are granted rights to the equity a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms instruments of its parent as consideration for the services provided to require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established the subsidiary, the subsidiary recognises an equity-settled share-based by the market concerned and are initially measured at cost, excluding payment transaction expense with a corresponding increase recognised transaction costs.
in equity representing a contribution from the parent.
In addition, the parent recognises an increase in equity and an increase in subsidiary Investments held as part of the groups business of investing in financial investment equivalent to the amount of the share-based payment assets are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss in both transaction.
the consolidated financial statements and the company financial statements.
An employee share trust is used for distributing option and performance share and deferred bonus awards to employees under Caledonias share Investments designated as held at fair value through profit or loss are remuneration schemes.
The trustee purchases shares with money lent measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Gains or losses interest free by Caledonia and transfers shares to participating employees arising from changes in the value of investments designated as held at on receipt of the requisite consideration or calling of awards.
fair value through profit or loss, including foreign exchange movements, are included in net profit or loss for the period as a capital return.
The transactions the employee share trust undertakes are considered to be performed by the trust as an agent for Caledonia.
The transactions Listed investments are valued at bid price or the last traded price when of the employee share trust are included in the separate financial a bid price is not available.
Unlisted investments are valued using statements of the parent company and, following the requirements of recognised valuation methodologies, based on the International Private IFRS10, in the consolidated financial statements as if they arose in that Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines, which reflect the company.
Own shares held by the employee share trust as at the amount for which an asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable, reporting date are accounted for as if they were treasury shares.
willing parties on an arms length basis.
The portfolio valuation methodology is detailed on page 24.
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 65 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Significant accounting policies continued Distributions from investment limited partnerships are treated as disposal Receivables proceeds or income in accordance with the nature of the distribution.
Receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value Any surplus capital distributions after repaying partners capital are as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable treated as realised gains.
Derivative financial instruments Cash and cash equivalents Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract is entered Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
amounts of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in Hedge accounting is not applied.
Changes in the fair value of derivative value.
financial instruments are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as they arise.
Borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the fair value Capital reserve of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including The company maintains a capital reserve.
The following items are premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, transferred into the capital reserve from profit or loss: are accounted for on an accrual basis in the statement of comprehensive gains and losses on investments held at fair value through profit income using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying or loss amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
The effective interest method allocates the gains and losses on derivatives used to hedge the fair value of interest expense over the life of the instrument so as to reflect a constant investments return on the carrying amount of the liability.
expenses and finance costs incurred directly in relation to capital Provisions transactions A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be taxation on items recognised in the capital reserve.
required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the Property, plant and equipment reporting date and are discounted to present value where the effect is Property is measured at fair value.
Gains arising from changes in the fair material.
value are included in other comprehensive income for the period in which they arise and losses included in profit or loss.
To the extent gains In the financial statements, provisions recognised for investments are represent the reversal of cumulative losses previously recognised they included in the statement of comprehensive income as a capital return.
are included in profit or loss.
Share capital Plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded as the proceeds and any accumulated impairment loss.
received, net of direct issue costs.
Assets in course of construction are measured at cost less any Where the Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust purchases accumulated impairment loss.
the companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted Depreciation is calculated to write off the fair value or cost of items of from equity attributable to the companys owners until the shares are property, plant and equipment less their estimated residual values using transferred.
Where such shares are subsequently transferred, any the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives.
Land and assets consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental in course of construction are not depreciated.
transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment are attributable to the companys owners.
as follows: Operating segments Buildings 25-50 years Operating segments are based on the financial information reported to Office equipment 3-5 years the chief operating decision maker.
Accumulated depreciation on revalued property is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset.
The gain or loss on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Impairment of assets At each reporting date, the group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, an impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, if any.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
66 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc
