The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 General Shareholder Information BACS Shareholder Details Dividends and interest can be paid to shareholders and stockholders Shareholders who hold their shares in certificated form can check by means of BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services : their shareholding with the Registrar, Computershare Investor mandate forms for this purpose are available from the Registrar.
Alternatively, shareholders can write to the Registrar the address Please note that to gain access to your details on the isgiven on page 17 to give their instructions: these must include Computersharesite you will need the holder reference number thebank account number, the bank account title and the sort code shown on your share certificate.
ofthe bank to which payments are to be made.
AIFMD Disclosures Disability Act Periodic disclosures required in accordance with the Alternative Copies of this report and other documents issued by the Company Investment Fund Managers Directive are included within a Key are available from the Company Secretary.
If needed, copies can be Investor Information Document KIID which can be found on the made available in a variety of formats, including Braille, audio tape or Companys website www.
You can contact the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, which has installed textphones to allow speech and hearing impaired people who have their own textphone to contact them directly, without the need for an intermediate operator by dialling 0870 702 0005.
Specially trained operators are available during normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People dial 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
Non-Mainstream Pooled Investments NMPI Status The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its ordinary shares of 25p each can be recommended by IFAs to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA rules in relation to non-mainstream investment products and intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
ISA The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs in order to qualify as an eligible investment for a stocks and shares ISA.
Share Price Listings The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is published dailyin The Financial Times and other leading newspapers.
TheFinancial Times also shows figures for the estimated NAV andthe premium discount.
The market prices of the Companys preference, preferred ordinary and debenture stocks can be found in the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
Performance Details Share Price Information Details of the Companys share price and NAV can be found on thewebsite.
com TheCompanys NAV is published daily.
