The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report: Glossary Alternative Investment Fund Managers Dividend Dates Directive AIFMD When declared or recommended, each dividend will have three key dates applied to it.
The payment date is the date on which Agreed by the European Parliament and the Council of the European shareholders will receive their dividend, either by BACS transfer or by Union and transposed into UK legislation, the AIFMD classifies certain receipt of a dividend cheque.
The record date applied to the dividend investment vehicles, including investment companies, as Alternative is used as a cut-off for the Companys registrars to know which Investment Funds AIFs and requires them to appoint an Alternative shareholders should be paid a dividend.
Only shareholders on the Investment Fund Manager AIFM and depositary tomanage and register of members at the close of business on the record date will oversee the operations of the investment vehicle.
TheBoard of the receive the dividend.
The ex-dividend date is the business day before Company retains responsibility for strategy, operations and compliance the record date and is the date upon which the Companys net asset and the Directors retain a fiduciary duty to shareholders.
value will be disclosed ex-dividend.
Association of Investment Companies AIC Gearing The Company is a member of the AIC which is the trade body for Gearing means borrowing money to buy assets with the expectation investment companies and represents the industry in relation to that the return on investments bought will exceed the interest cost of various matters which impact the regulation of such entities.
The gearing percentage reflects the amount of borrowings e. g. bank loans or overdrafts the Company has used to Benchmark invest in the market, and is calculated by taking the difference between total investments and equity shareholders funds, dividing A measure against which performance is compared.
For the this by equity shareholders funds and multiplying by 100.
The Company this is the size weighted average of the AIC UK Equity Company can also use synthetic gearing through derivatives and Income sector.
Custodian Investment Trusts The Custodian is responsible for ensuring the safe custody of the Investment trusts are public limited companies, listed on the London Companys assets and ensuring that all transactions in the underlying Stock Exchange, which provide shareholders with a professionally holdings are transacted in an accurate and timely manner.
Investment trusts are exempt from tax on the capital gains arising on their investments subject to Depositary meeting certain criteria.
Income, net of expenses and tax, is substantially distributed to shareholders.
Investment trusts are also With effect from 22 July 2014 all AIFs were required to appoint a known as investment companies, although the tax legislation retains Depositary who has responsibility for overseeing the operations of the reference to investment trusts.
the Company including safekeeping, cash monitoring and verification of ownership and valuation.
The Depositary is strictly liable for the loss of any investments or other assets in its custody unless it has Liquidity notified that it is has discharged its liability in certain markets.
In the context of the liquidity of shares in the stock market, this refers TheDepositary has confirmed that it has not discharged liability to the availability of buyers in the market for the share in question.
inrelation to any of the Companys assets.
Where the market in a particular share is described as liquid, that share will be in demand and holders wishing to sell their shares Derivative should find ready buyers.
Conversely, where the market in a share is illiquid the difficulty of finding a buyer will tend to depress the price A contract between two or more parties in relation to an underlying that might be negotiated for a sale.
The value of a derivative will fluctuate in accordance with the value of the security and is a form of gearing as the fluctuations in value are usually greater than the fluctuations in the underlying Net Asset Value NAV Per Ordinary Share securitys value.
Examples of derivatives are put and call options, The value of the Companys assets e. g. investments and cash held swap contracts, futures and contracts for difference.
Foreign less any liabilities e. g. bank borrowings and debt securities for exchange, interest rates and commodities may also be traded using which the Company is responsible, divided by the number of shares derivative contracts.
The aggregate NAV is also referred to as shareholders funds on the Balance Sheet.
The NAV is published daily.
20 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report: Glossary continued Market Capitalisation The market value of a company, calculated by multiplying the mid-market price per share by the number of shares in issue.
Ongoing Charge The Ongoing Charge reflects those expenses of a type which are likely to recur in the foreseeable future, whether charged to capital orrevenue, and which relate to the operation of the Company as a collective fund, excluding the costs of acquisition or disposal of investments, financing charges and gains or losses arising on investments.
The Ongoing Charge is based on actual costs incurred in the year as being the best estimate of future costs.
Premium Discount The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust is either higher premium or lower discount than the NAV pershare, expressed as a percentage of the NAV per share.
Total Return Performance This is the return on the share price or NAV taking into account both the rise and fall of share prices and the dividends paid to shareholders.
Any dividends received by a shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in either additional shares for share price total return or the Companys assets for NAV total return.
Yield The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share price.
Warning to shareholders Many companies are aware that their shareholders have received Please note that it is very unlikely that either the Company or the unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, would matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders and that any such target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to calls would relate only to official documentation already circulated be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They to shareholders and never in respect of investment advice.
can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited phone call, to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
please contact the Company Secretary on the telephone number detailed on page17.
