Additional information Corporate website Shareholder warning The Groups corporate website is www.
Almost five thousand people contact the Financial Conduct It contains useful information for the Companys investors and Authority FCA about share fraud each year and victims shareholders.
For example, it includes press releases, details lose an average of 20,000. of forthcoming events, essential shareholder information, a Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure dividend history, a financial calendar, and details of the investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that prove to Companys AGM.
You can also subscribe to email news alerts.
Or they can offer to buy shares at Market an inflated price in return for you paying upfront.
However, if you buy or sell shares in this way, The Company has a premium listing on the UK Listing you will probably lose your money.
The Companys Ordinary Shares EPIC: DLG are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
How to avoid share fraud Remember that FCA-authorised firms are unlikely to contact Share ownership you out of the blue offering to buy or sell shares Share capital You can find details of the Companys share capital in note 28 Do not converse with them.
Note the name of the person to the consolidated financial statements.
and firm contacting you, then end the call Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk Dividends to see if the person and firm contacting you are authorised The Company pays its dividends in Sterling to shareholders by the FCA registered on its register of members at the relevant record date.
Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm: Shareholders can arrange to receive their cash dividend copying its website: or giving you false contact details payments in a bank or building society by completing a If you want to call them back, use the firms contact details dividend mandate form.
This is available from the Companys listed on the Financial Services Register at www.
uk registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC Registrar, in the UK.
You can find the Registrars contact details on If the firm does not have contact details on the Register or the inside back cover.
Alternatively, shareholders can they tell you the details are out of date, call the FCA on access their shareholdings online and download a dividend 0800 111 6768 mandate form from the Investor Centre.
You can find details Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at of this below.
uk consumers scams Dividend Reinvestment Plan Remember that if you buy or sell shares from an The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
This unauthorised firm, you cannot access the Financial enables shareholders to use their cash dividends to buy the Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Companys Ordinary Shares in the market.
You can find Scheme more details on the Companys website.
Get independent financial and professional advice before handing over any money Shareholder enquiries Shareholders with queries about anything relating to their If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is shares can contact our Registrar.
Report a scam Shareholders should notify the Registrar of any change in If fraudsters approach you, tell the FCA using the share fraud shareholding details, such as their address, as soon as possible.
You can also find out more about investment scams on the same Shareholders can access their current shareholding details web page.
Investor Centre is a free-to-use, secure, self-service website that enables You can call the FCA Consumer Helpline on shareholders to manage their holdings online.
The website 0800 111 6768. allows shareholders to: If you have already paid money to share fraudsters, Check their holdings contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Update their records, including address and direct credit details Access all their securities in one portfolio by setting up a personal account Vote online Register to receive electronic shareholder communications The website requires shareholders to quote their Shareholder Reference Number to access this information.
Shareholders can find this number on their share certificates.
172 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 172 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Other information Tips on protecting your shares Dividend tax allowance Keep all your certificates in a safe place.
Alternatively, From April 2016 dividend tax credits will be replaced by an consider holding your shares in the UKs electronic annual 5,000 tax-free allowance across an individuals entire registration and settlement system for equity, CREST, or share portfolio.
Above this amount, individuals will pay tax on via a nominee their dividend income at a rate dependent on their income tax bracket and personal circumstances.
The Company will Keep correspondence from the Registrar that shows your continue to provide registered shareholders with a confirmation shareholder reference number in a safe place, and shred of the dividends paid and this should be included with any unwanted correspondence other dividend income received when calculating and Inform the Registrar as soon as you change your address reporting total dividend income received to HMRC.
It is the shareholders responsibility to include all dividend income If you receive a letter from the Registrar regarding a change when calculating tax requirements.
of address and you have not recently moved, contact them immediately This change was announced by the Chancellor of the Find out when your dividends are paid and contact the Exchequer, as part of the UK Government Budget, in July Registrar if you do not receive them 2015.
Draft legislation was published on 9 December 2015 and is intended to be enacted in the proposed UK Finance Bill Consider having your dividends paid direct into your bank 2016.
If you have any tax queries, please contact your account.
You will need to complete a dividend mandate financial adviser.
form and send it to the Registrar.
This reduces the risk of cheques being stolen or lost in the post Financial calendar If you change your bank account, inform the Registrar of 2016 your new account details immediately Date Event If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers 1 March Preliminary Results 2015 registered in the UK or in your country of residence 10 March Ex-dividend date for 2015 final and Be aware that the Company will never call you concerning second special interim dividends investments.
If you receive such a call from a person saying 11 March Record date for 2015 final and they represent the Group, please contact the Company second special interim dividends Secretary immediately, by calling 44 0 1132 920 667 1 4 May Trading update for the first quarter of 2016 Electronic communications and voting 12 May Annual General Meeting The Group produces various communications.
Shareholders 19 May Payment date for 2015 final and can view these online, download them or receive paper second special interim dividends copies by contacting the Registrar.
1 2 August Half Year Report 2016 1 Shareholders who register their email address with our 11 August Ex-dividend date for 2016 Registrar or at the Investor Centre can receive emails with interim dividend news on events, such as the AGM.
They can also receive 1 12 August Record date for 2016 interim dividend shareholder communications like the Annual Report & Accounts 1 9 September Payment date for 2016 interim dividend and Notice of Meeting electronically.
1 8 November Trading update for the third quarter of 2016 Dealing facilities Shareholders can buy, sell or transfer their shares through a Annual General Meeting stockbroker or a high street bank, or through the Registrars The 2016 AGM will be held on 12 May 2016 at the offices share-dealing facility.
of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD, starting at 11.00 am.
All shareholders will receive a separate You can call or email the Registrar regarding its share-dealing notice convening the AGM.
This will explain the resolutions to facility using this contact information: be put to the meeting.
For telephone sales, call 44 0 370 703 0084 between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays For internet sales, go to www.
You will need your Shareholder Reference Number, as shown on your share certificate or your welcome letter from the Chairman Note: 1.
These dates are subject to change.
