Glossary Term Definition and explanation Actuarial best estimate The probability-weighted average of all future claims and cost scenarios.
It is calculated using historical data, actuarial methods and judgement.
A best estimate of reserves will therefore normally be designed to include no margin for optimism or, conversely, caution.
Adjusted diluted earnings Adjusted diluted earnings per share includes ongoing operations and excludes discontinued per share operations, the Run-off segment, restructuring and other one-off costs and the gain on disposal of subsidiary using the UK standard tax rate of 20.25%: 2014: 21.5%.
The comparative periods include profit after tax for discontinued operations at the UK standard tax rate, as these were managed as part of ongoing operations.
Annual Incentive Plan This is designed to incentivise the performance of executives and employees over a one-year AIP operating cycle.
It focuses on the short to medium-term elements of the Groups strategic aims.
Available-for-sale AFS Financial assets that are classified as available-for-sale.
Please refer to the accounting policy investment note 1.12 on page 114.
Buy-As-You-Earn The HM Revenue & Customs approved Buy-As-You-Earn Share Incentive Plan allows all employees the opportunity to become shareholders in the Company.
Capital The funds invested in the Group, including funds invested by shareholders and retained profits.
Claims frequency The number of claims divided by the number of policies per year.
Claims reserve provision Funds the Group sets aside to meet the estimated cost of claims payments and related expenses for losses and lossthat the Group considers it will ultimately need to pay.
adjustment expense Clawback The ability of the Company to claim repayment of paid amounts.
Combined operating ratio The sum of the loss, commission and expense ratios.
The ratio measures the amount of claims costs, COR commission and expenses compared to net earned premium generated.
A ratio of less than 100% indicates profitable business.
Commission Payments to brokers, partners and PCWs for generating business.
Commission ratio The ratio of commission expense divided by net earned premium.
Continuing operations Continuing operations include all activities other than discontinued operations.
Current-year attritional The loss ratio for the current accident year, excluding the movement of claims reserves relating to loss ratio previous accident years, and claims relating to major weather events in the Home division.
Deferred Annual Incentive For Executive Directors, at least 40% of the AIP award is deferred into shares typically vesting Plan DAIP three years after grant.
The remainder of the award is paid in cash following year-end.
Discontinued operations The Group has sold its International division to Mapfre, S. A.
See note 5 to the consolidated financial statements on page 136.
Earnings per share The amount of the Groups profit allocated to each Ordinary Share of the Company.
Employee Representative A forum that represents all employees, including in circumstances where there is a legal requirement Body to consult employees.
Expense ratio The ratio of operating expenses divided by net earned premium.
Finance costs The cost of servicing the Groups external borrowings.
Financial Conduct Authority The independent body that regulates firms and financial advisers.
It puts the customers interests FCA and market integrity at the core of financial service providers activities.
Financial Reporting Council The UKs independent regulator responsible for promoting high-quality corporate governance and reporting to foster investment.
Gross written premium The total premiums from contracts that began during the period.
International Accounting A not-for-profit public interest organisation that is overseen by a monitoring board of public authorities.
Standards Board IASB It develops IFRS.
These standards aim to make worldwide markets transparent, accountable and efficient.
Incurred but not reported Funds set aside to meet the cost of claims for accidents that have occurred, but have not yet been IBNR reported to the Group.
In-force policies The number of policies on a given date that are active and against which the Group will pay, following a valid insurance claim.
Insurance liabilities This comprises insurance claims reserves and claims handling provision, which the Group maintains to meet current and future claims.
Investment income yield The income earned from the investment portfolio, recognised through the income statement during the period and divided by the average assets under management AUM.
This excludes unrealised and realised gains and losses, impairments and fair-value adjustments.
The average AUM is derived from the periods opening and closing balances.
174 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 174 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Other information Term Definition and explanation Investment return The income earned from the investment portfolio, including unrealised and realised gains and losses, impairments and fair value adjustments.
Investment return yield The return earned from the investment portfolio, recognised through the income statement during the period divided by the average AUM.
This includes unrealised and realised gains and losses, impairments and fair-value adjustments.
The average AUM derives from the periods opening and closing balances.
Loss ratio Net insurance claims divided by net earned premium.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards made as nil-cost options or conditional share awards, which vest to the extent that LTIP performance conditions are satisfied after a period of at least three years.
Malus An arrangement that permits unvested remuneration awards to be forfeited, when the Company considers it appropriate.
Net asset value The net asset value of the Group is calculated by subtracting total liabilities from total assets.
Net claims The cost of claims incurred in the period less any claims costs recovered under reinsurance contracts.
It includes claims payments and movements in claims reserves.
Net earned premium The element of gross earned premium less reinsurance premium ceded for the period where insurance cover has already been provided.
Ogden discount rate The discount rate set by the relevant government bodies, the Lord Chancellor and Scottish Ministers.
Bodily injury cases use them to calculate lump-sum awards.
Ongoing operations Ongoing operations comprise Direct Line Groups ongoing divisions: Motor, Home, Rescue and other personal lines, and Commercial.
It excludes discontinued operations, the Run-off segment, and restructuring and other one-off costs.
Operating profit The pre-tax profit that the Groups activities generate, including insurance and investment activity, but excluding finance costs.
Own Risk and Solvency A Solvency II requirement.
It documents the Groups insurance underwriting entities risks and Assessment ORSA associated capital requirement, both now and projected over the business planning period.
It is forward looking, reflecting business strategy and risk appetite.
Periodic payment order These are claims payments as awarded under the Courts Act 2003.
PPOs are used to settle large PPO personal injury claims.
They generally provide claimants who require long-term care with a lump-sum award plus inflation-linked annual payments.
Prudential Regulation The PRA is a part of the Bank of England.
It is responsible for regulating and supervising insurers Authority PRA and financial institutions in the UK.
RBS Group The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and its subsidiary companies.
Reinsurance Contractual arrangements where the Group transfers part or all of the accepted insurance risk to another insurer.
Reserves Funds that have been set aside to meet outstanding insurance claims and IBNR.
Return on equity Return on equity is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the owners of the Company by average ordinary shareholders equity for the period.
Return on tangible equity Return on tangible equity for 2015 is adjusted profit after tax from ongoing operations divided by RoTE the Groups average shareholders equity, less goodwill and other intangible assets and net assets held for sale in the disposal group relating to discontinued operations.
Profit after tax is adjusted to exclude discontinued operations, the Run-off segment, restructuring and other one-off costs and the gain on disposal of subsidiary.
It is stated after charging tax using the UK standard tax rate of 20.25%: 2014: 21.5%.
RoTE for comparative periods include the net assets held for sale in the disposal group and profit after tax for discontinued operations, as the International division was managed as part of ongoing operations.
Risk mix Risk mix reflects the expected level of claims from the portfolio.
It measures the estimated movement based on risk models used in that period, and is revised when models are updated.
Run-off Where the Group no longer underwrites new business, but continues to meet its claims liabilities under existing contracts.
Solvency II The capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry, which became effective on 1 January 2016.
It establishes revised capital requirements and risk management standards.
It comprises three pillars: Pillar I, which sets out capital requirements for an insurer: Pillar II, which focuses on systems of governance: and Pillar III, which deals with disclosure requirements.
Total costs Total costs comprise operating expenses and claims handling expenses.
Total Shareholder Return Compares share price movement with reinvested dividends as a percentage of the share price at TSR the beginning of the period.
Underwriting result The profit or loss from operational activities, excluding investment performance.
It is calculated as profit or loss net earned premium less net insurance claims and total expenses.
com 175 Forward-looking statements disclaimer This Annual Report & Accounts has been prepared for, and Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future only for, the members of the Company as a body, and no performance.
The Groups actual results of operations, other persons.
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents financial condition and the development of the business sector or advisers do not accept responsibility to any other person to in which the Group operates may differ materially from those whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come, suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
document, for example directly or indirectly as a result of, but not limited to, UK domestic and global economic business Certain information contained in this document, including any conditions, market-related risks such as fluctuations in interest information as to the Groups strategy, plans or future financial rates and exchange rates, the policies and actions of or operating performance, constitutes forward-looking regulatory authorities including changes related to capital and statements.
These forward-looking statements may be solvency requirements or the Ogden discount rate, the impact identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including of competition, currency changes, inflation and deflation, the the terms aims, anticipates, aspire, believes, timing impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions, continue, could, estimates, expects, guidance, disposals, joint ventures or combinations within relevant intends, may, mission, outlook, plans, predicts, industries, as well as the impact of tax and other legislation projects, seeks, should, strategy, targets or will or, and other regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Group and in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable its affiliates operate.
In addition, even if the Groups actual terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans, objectives, results of operations, financial condition and the development goals, future events or intentions.
These forward-looking of the business sector in which the Group operates are statements include all matters that are not historical facts.
They consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this appear in a number of places throughout this document, and document, those results or developments may not be indicative include statements regarding the intentions, beliefs or current of results or developments in subsequent periods.
expectations of the Directors concerning, among other things: the Groups results of operations, financial condition, The forward-looking statements contained in this document prospects, growth, strategies and the industry in which the reflect knowledge and information available as of the date Group operates.
Examples of forward-looking statements of preparation of this document.
The Group and the Directors include financial targets, which are contained in this document expressly disclaim any obligations or undertaking to update specifically with respect to RoTE, risk-based capital coverage or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as ratio, the Groups COR and investment income yield.
By their a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and required to do so by applicable law or regulation.
Nothing uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on in this document should be construed as a profit forecast.
circumstances that may or may not occur in the future or are Neither the content of Direct Line Groups website nor the beyond the Groups control.
content of any other website accessible from hyperlinks on the Groups website is incorporated into, or forms part of, this document.
176 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 176 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Contact information Registered office Principal banker Direct Line Insurance Group plc The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Churchill Court 280 Bishopsgate Westmoreland Road London Bromley EC2M 4RB BR1 1DP Telephone: 44 0 131 556 8555 Registered in England and Wales No.
com Company Secretary: Roger C Clifton Corporate brokers Telephone: 44 0 1132 920 667 Goldman Sachs International Website: www.
com Peterborough Court 133 Fleet Street Registrars London Computershare Investor Services PLC EC4A 2BB The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Telephone: 44 0 20 7774 1000 Bristol Website: www.
com BS99 6ZZ Morgan Stanley & Co International plc Shareholder helpline: 44 0 370 873 5880 25 Cabot Square Shareholder fax: 44 0 370 703 6101 Canary Wharf Telephone number for the hard of hearing: London 44 0 370 702 0005 E14 4QA Website: www.
com Telephone: 44 0 20 7425 8000 Investor Centre Website: www.
com To find out more about Investor Centre, go to RBC Europe Ltd www.
co. uk directline Riverbank House Auditors 2 Swan Lane London Deloitte LLP EC4R 3BF Hill House 1 Little New Street Telephone: 44 0 20 7653 4000 London Website: www.
com Legal advisers Allen & Overy LLP One Bishops Square London E1 6AD Telephone: 44 0 20 3088 0000 Website: www.
com Slaughter and May One Bunhill Row London EC1Y 8YY Telephone: 44 0 20 7600 1200 Website: www.
com This report is printed on mixed source paper which is FSC certified the standards for well-managed forests, considering environmental, social and economic issues.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc Printed by Pureprint Group www.
com 177 Direct Line Insurance Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Direct Line Insurance Group plc Registered in England & Wales No.
02280426 Registered Office: Churchill Court, Westmoreland Road, Bromley, BR1 1DP
