16310 Edinburgh pp57 68 16310 Edinburgh pp57 68 20 05 2015 13:29 Page 63 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 63 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Benchmark An index against which performance is compared.
For the Company this is the FTSE All-Share Index.
Discount Premium The amount by which the share price of an investment trust is lower higher than the net asset value per share.
The discount premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value of the share.
Dividend Yield The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the current share price.
Gearing The gearing percentage reflects the amount of borrowings that a company has invested, with debt at par.
This figure indicates the extra amount by which shareholders funds would move if a companys investments were to rise or fall.
A positive percentage indicates the extent to which shareholders funds are geared: a nil gearing percentage, or nil, shows a company is ungeared.
A negative percentage indicates that a company is not fully invested.
There are several methods of calculating gearing and the following has been used in this report: Gross Gearing This reflects the amount of gross borrowings in use by a company and takes no account of any cash balances.
It is based on gross borrowings as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Net Gearing This reflects the amount of net borrowings invested, ie borrowings less cash and investments in money market funds.
It is based on net borrowings as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Leverage Leverage, for the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, is not synonymous with gearing as defined above.
In addition to borrowings, it encompasses anything that increases the Companys exposure, including foreign currency and exposure gained through derivatives.
Leverage expresses the Companys exposure as a ratio of the Companys net asset value.
Two methods of calculating such exposure are set out in the AIFMD, gross and commitment.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the aggregate of all the Companys exposures other than cash balances held in base currency and without any offsetting.
The commitment method takes into account hedging and other netting arrangements designed to limit risk, offsetting them against the underlying exposure.
Leverage of 100% indicates that a company has no exposure in excess of the NAV.
Net Asset Value NAV Also described as shareholders funds, the net asset value is the value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities include current and long-term liabilities.
The net asset value per share is calculated by dividing the net asset value by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Net Cash This reflects the Companys net exposure to cash and cash equivalents expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds after any offset against its gearing.
Ongoing Charges Ratio This is calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC as follows: the annualised ongoing charges, including those charged to capital but excluding interest, incurred by the Company, expressed as a percentage of the average undiluted net asset value at market value reported in the period.
16310 Edinburgh pp57 68 16310 Edinburgh pp57 68 20 05 2015 13:29 Page 64 64 GLOSSARY OF TERMS continued Return The return generated in the period from the investments.
Capital Return reflects the return on capital, excluding any income returns.
Total Return reflects the aggregate of capital and income returns in the period.
The NAV total return reflects capital changes in the NAV and dividends paid in the period.
Share Price Total Return The share price total return reflects the change in the share price with dividends reinvested in the period, and is also known as total shareholder return.
