16310 Edinburgh pp57 68 16310 Edinburgh pp57 68 20 05 2015 13:29 Page 65 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 65 ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS DIRECTIVE DISCLOSURE Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM and the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the AIFMD, the Directive Invesco Fund Managers Limited IFML was authorised as an AIFM, and appointed by the Company as such, with effect from 22 July 2014.
IFML is an associated company of Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML, the previous Manager, and IAML continues to manage the Companys investments under delegated authority from IFML.
In accordance with the Directive, the Company qualifies as an Alternative Investment Fund AIF.
Amongst other things, the AIFMD requires certain information to be provided to prospective investors.
This information can be found in the Companys section of the Managers website www.
co. uk edinburgh in a downloadable document entitled AIFMD Investor Information.
There have been no material changes to this information since its publication in July 2014.
Any information requiring immediate disclosure pursuant to the Directive will be disclosed through a primary information provider.
In addition, the Directive requires information in relation to the remuneration of the Companys AIFM, IFML, and the Companys leverage both gross and commitment see Glossary on page 63 and to be made available to investors.
Accordingly: the AIFM remuneration policy is available from the Companys company secretary, on request see contact details on page 62 and the numerical remuneration disclosures in respect of the AIFMs first relevant reporting period year ended 31 December 2015 will be made available in due course: and the leverage calculated for the Company at the year end was 110.3% for gross and 110.3% for commitment.
The limits the AIFM has set for the Company are 250% and 200%, respectively.
16310 Edinburgh pp57 68 16310 Edinburgh pp57 68 20 05 2015 13:29 Page 66 66 The Manager of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is Invesco Fund Managers Limited.
Invesco Fund Managers Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Invesco Limited and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Invesco is one of the largest independent global investment management firms, with assets under management of $811.7 billion.
We aim to provide the highest returns available from markets, through active management, but in a controlled manner, conscious of the risks involved and within our clients objectives.
Assets under Management as at 30 April 2015.
16310 Edinburgh pp57 68 16310 Edinburgh pp57 68 20 05 2015 13:29 Page 67 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 67 SPECIALIST FUNDS MANAGED BY INVESCO PERPETUAL Investing for Income, Income Growth and Capital Growth from equities and fixed interest securities The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc government bonds.
The Company seeks to balance the attraction of high-yield securities with the need for protection of Invests primarily in UK securities with the long-term objective capital and to manage volatility.
The Company uses repo of achieving: financing to enhance returns.
1. an increase of the Net Asset Value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All Share Index: and Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Managed Liquidity Portfolio 2. growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK inflation.
Aims to generate income from a variety of fixed income instruments combined with a high degree of security.
Income The Company has a debenture stock in issue and may use will reduce during periods of very low interest rates.
Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc UK Equity Portfolio City Merchants High Yield Trust Limited Aims to generate long-term capital and income growth with A Jersey incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to real growth in dividends from investment, primarily in the UK generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed equity market.
The portfolio may use bank borrowings.
income instruments combined with a degree of security.
The Company may use bank borrowings.
Keystone Investment Trust plc Aims to provide shareholders with long-term growth of Invesco Income Growth Trust plc capital mainly from UK investments.
The Company has Aims to produce income and capital growth superior to that debenture stocks in issue.
of the UK stock market and dividends paid quarterly that, over time, grow at above the rate of inflation.
The Company may Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc use bank borrowings.
Aims to generate capital growth and real growth in dividends over the medium to longer term from a portfolio of securities Invesco Perpetual Enhanced Income Limited listed mainly in the UK and fixed interest markets.
The A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to Company has senior secured notes in issue and, in addition, provide a high level of income, paid gross to UK investors, whilst may use bank borrowings.
seeking to maximise total return through investing, primarily in a diversified portfolio of high-yielding corporate and Investing in Smaller Companies Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc Aims to achieve long-term total returns for the Companys of small to medium sized UK quoted companies.
The shareholders primarily by investment in a broad cross-section Company may use bank borrowings.
Investing Internationally Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Global Equity Income Invesco Asia Trust plc Portfolio Aims to provide long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of Asian and Australasian securities.
The Aims to provide an attractive and growing level of income Company aims to achieve growth in its net asset value in return and capital appreciation over the long term, excess of the MSCI AC Asia ex Japan Index, expressed in predominantly through investment in a diversified portfolio of Sterling.
Investing for Total Returns Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Balanced Risk Portfolio Aims to provide shareholders with an attractive total return in The portfolio is constructed so as to balance risk, is long-only, using transparently-priced exchange-traded futures contracts differing economic and inflationary environments and with low correlation to equity and bond market indices by gaining and other derivative instruments to gain such exposure and to provide leverage.
exposure to three asset classes: debt securities, equities and commodities.
Investing in Multiple Asset Classes Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc UK Equity Portfolio A choice of four investment policies and objectives, each Global Equity Income Portfolio intended to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns from Managed Liquidity Portfolio segregated portfolios, with the ability to switch between Balanced Risk Portfolio them, four times a year, free from capital gains tax liability.
Dividends are paid quarterly, apart from Balanced Risk which will not normally pay dividends.
Please contact our Investor Services Team on 0800 085 8677 if you would like more information about the investment trusts or other specialist funds listed above.
Further details are also available on the following website: www.
co. uk investmenttrusts 16310 Edinburgh pp57 68 16310 Edinburgh pp57 68 20 05 2015 13:29 Page 68 Linkway Financial Printers Typeset & Printed in London UK 16443
