Glossary Carried interest The incentive arrangements, which are similar to arrangements found elsewhere in the private equity industry, are designed to align Electra Partners interests with those of Electras shareholders.
These arrangements are typically referred to as carried interest.
The carried interest payable to the members of Electra Partners is based on three year pools of investments.
Under the terms of this arrangement all qualifying investments in a three year period are aggregated into a separate pool.
Electra must first receive back the aggregate cost of all the investments in the pool, plus related priority profit share see below and an 8% compound return this is often referred to as the hurdle.
Once Electra has received sufficient cash to pay the amounts as described above the members of Electra Partners will be entitled to a carried interest of 18% of the profits.
Consequently, they will receive the next 18 82 of the hurdle so that they will have an amount equal to 18% of the profits on the pool up to that point this is referred to as a catch up.
Thereafter, Electra and the members of Electra Partners will share future cash flows in the ratio of 82:18.
Below is an example to illustrate in principle how the above described arrangements work: m Assumptions Amount invested 450 Amount invested Priority profit share 50 Priority profit share paid back Amount realised 1,000 Realised after year five Pool profit 500 Hurdle 210 8% per annum compound Catch up 46 18 82 of the hurdle Balance 44 The amount over the hurdle to get to an aggregate 18% of the pool profit Total carried interest 90 18% Electra 410 82% Commitments Legal obligation to provide capital for future investment in a private equity fund or in relation to a single investment.
Discount Investment trust shares frequently trade at a discount to NAV.
This occurs when the share price is less than the NAV.
In this circumstance, the price that a shareholder would pay or receive for a share would be less than the value attributable to it by reference to the underlying assets.
Earnings multiple This is normally referred to as a price earnings P E ratio.
It is the ratio of a companys valuation compared to its earnings.
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation.
Often used to compare the profitability of similar companies.
EBITDA margin EBITDA expressed as a percentage derived by dividing EBITDA by net sales.
EV enterprise value This is the aggregate value of a companys entire issued share capital and net debt.
Gearing This is the level of a companys debt related to its equity capital and is usually expressed in percentage form.
It shows the extent to which a company is funded by lenders as opposed to shareholders.
146 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 Hedging Hedging is an investment technique designed to offset a potential loss on one investment by purchasing a second investment that is expected to perform in the opposite way.
IPO initial public offering An offering by a company of its share capital to the public with a view to seeking an admission of its shares to a recognised stock exchange.
IRR internal rate of return Is the annualised return on an investment calculated from the cash flows arising from that investment taking account of the timing of each cash flow.
It is derived by computing the discount rate at which the present value of all subsequent cash flows arising from an investment are equal to the original amount invested.
Listed company Any company where the shares are freely tradable and are listed or traded on a recognised stock exchange.
NAV This is the value of all the Companys assets minus current and long-term liabilities.
Can also be referred to as shareholders funds.
Diluted and Basic NAV During the year to 30 September 2015, 11,165 Convertible Bonds Bonds were converted into 547,187 ordinary shares in the Company.
Prior to this a total of 3,466 Bonds had been converted into 169,064 ordinary shares and, accordingly, the diluted NAV per share assumes the issue at 30 September 2015 of a further 4,215,753 ordinary shares on the basis of the conversion terms of the Bonds.
Calculation of NAV At 30 September 2015 The calculation of the audited diluted NAV per share at 30 September 2015 has been affected by the issue of the Bonds.
Electra is required to prepare accounts and report in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Under IFRS, the Bonds are a compound financial instrument which contains both a liability and an equity component.
Of the 100 million raised, 23 million of the Bonds was accounted for as an equity instrument with the balance accounted for as debt.
Further details of the accounting treatment of the Bonds are set out in Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
At 20 October 2015 The unaudited diluted NAV per share at 20 October 2015 was calculated on the basis of the NAV at 30 September 2015 adjusted to reflect purchases and sales of investments, currency movements and bid values on that day in respect of listed investments.
NAV per share This is the value of the Companys assets attributable to one Ordinary share.
It is calculated by dividing shareholders funds by the total number of Ordinary shares in issue.
Ongoing Charges Ratio These are calculated by dividing Priority Profit Share and other expenses, by net assets at the year end.
Electras ongoing charges ratio for the year to 30 September 2015 was 2.0% 2014: 2.3%.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 147 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview Permanent Capital An investment entity that manages capital for an unlimited time horizon.
Priority Profit Share This is a share of profits equivalent to a management fee.
It is calculated at 1.5% of the gross value of the Companys core investment portfolio.
From 1 April 2015 no fee is paid on cash and the management fee on Non-Core Listed and Primary Fund Investments has reduced to 1%.
Return on Equity ROE This is the total return divided by opening shareholder funds.
Electras ROE has been calculated by taking the percentage change in diluted NAV per share and adding back dividends paid per share.
Total return The total return to shareholders is the aggregate of income and capital profits of the investment portfolio for the year less all costs.
Unlisted company Any company whose shares are not listed or traded on a recognised stock exchange.
148 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015
