Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Glossary of terms 115 The definitions set out below apply throughout this document, unless the context requires otherwise.
Additional Services Revenue ASR 1 Non-underwritten additional insurance products is the commission margins for the Group generated from sales of such products.
2 Policy administration fees and other income is the income received as a result of administration charges, e. g. as a result of mid-term alterations to policy details by the policy holder and cancellation charges.
Other income includes introduction fees where the Group does not have a continuing relationship with the customer.
3 Claims income is the income generated by the Group from the appointment of firms used during the claims process, including car hire and medical suppliers.
This also includes legal panel membership fees from Scotland.
4 Non-underwritten additional services is the total income from the Groups non-underwritten additional services reporting segment.
5 Underwritten additional insurance products is the revenue calculated by deducting the Groups claims costs associated with underwritten additional insurance products from the gross written premiums relating to these products in a particular period.
6 Non-underwritten additional services trading profit is the total non-underwritten additional services income less the total associated expenses.
Board means the Board of Directors of the Company from time to time.
Business means the business of the Group.
Combined operating ratio is a metric for assessing the performance of a general insurance firm, calculated as the loss ratio plus the expense ratio.
Company means esure Group plc, a company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 7064312 whose registered office is The Observatory, Castlefield Road, Reigate, Surrey RH2 0SG.
Dafaqto is a leading independent financial research company in the UK.
Expense ratio means net insurance expenses plus claims handling costs as a percentage of earned premiums, net of reinsurance.
Flood Re is a not-for-profit flood reinsurance fund, owned and managed by the insurance industry.
com or Gocompare is a company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 6062003 whose registered office is Unit 6, Imperial Courtyard, Newport, Gwent NP10 8UL.
Gross investment return means interest income plus the net gains losses on invested funds as a percentage of the average total investible funds for the period.
Group or esure Group means the Company and its subsidiaries.
IGD means the Insurance Groups Directive.
IFRS means International Financial Reporting Standards.
Loss ratio means claims incurred net of reinsurance as a percentage of earned premiums, net of reinsurance.
Midata means to empower personal finance comparison choices by giving consumers easier access to their data and helping them use it to choose the right deal.
Net Promoter Score is an index that measures the willingness of customers to recommend a companys products or services to others.
the Notes means the 125 million 6.75% 10-year tier 2 Subordinated Notes issued on 19 December 2014.
Ordinary Shares means the ordinary shares with a nominal value of 112 pence each in the capital of the Company.
ORSA means Own Risk and Solvency Assessment and aims to assess the overall solvency needs of an insurance company.
Solo means the insurance undertaking entity esure Insurance Limited.
