Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 71 1 General information esure Group plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
Its registered office is The Observatory, Reigate, Surrey RH2 0SG.
The nature of the Group's operations is the writing of general insurance for private cars and homes and, following the acquisition of the outstanding 50% of the ordinary shares of Gocompare.
com Holdings Limited Gocompare on 31 March 2015, price comparison services.
The Company's principal activity is that of a holding company.
All of the Company's subsidiaries are located in the United Kingdom, except for esure S. L. which is incorporated in Spain.
2 Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements present the esure Group plc Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015, comprising the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of financial position, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated statement of cash flows and related notes, as well as the comparatives.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
As detailed in the Strategic Report on page 24, the Directors have assessed the Groups prospects and viability for the three-year period to 31 December 2018.
Based on this robust assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least the next 12 months.
These consolidated financial statements have been presented in Sterling and rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
Throughout these consolidated financial statements any amounts which are less than 0.05m are shown by 0.0, whereas a dash - represents that no balance exists.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial assets and land and buildings that are measured at fair value at the reporting date.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Changes to accounting policies The Group has adopted the following interpretation during the period, with a date of initial application of 1 January 2015:  IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies issued on 20 May 2013 : IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies became effective under EU law for accounting periods beginning on or after 17 June 2014 and has been adopted by the Group from 1 January 2015.
The interpretation clarifies that a government or governmental agency levy is not recognised until the obligating event specified in legislation regulation occurs, even if there is no realistic opportunity to avoid the obligation.
The Group has aligned the timing of its recognition of provisions for levies to that required by the IFRIC interpretation.
Whilst this is considered to be a change in accounting policy in line with IAS 8, no restatement of comparative information has been performed on materiality grounds.
There are a number of other amendments to standards with a date of initial application of 1 January 2015, the adoption of which has had no material effect on the Group's accounting policies.
There are a number of standards, amendments and interpretations which have been issued by the IASB but which have not yet been endorsed by the EU, thus the date and impact of applying these is uncertain.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiary companies are consolidated using the acquisition method.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtained control, and continue to be consolidated until the date when such control ceases.
In preparing these consolidated financial statements, any intra-group balances, unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group trading are eliminated.
Where accounting policies used in individual financial statements of a subsidiary company differ from Group policies, adjustments are made to bring these policies in line with Group policies.
Joint ventures Prior to the acquisition of the outstanding 50% of the ordinary shares of Gocompare on 31 March 2015, the Group's interest in Gocompare was classified under IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements as a joint venture.
A joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities.
The Group's interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The Group recognises the cost of the investments which, together with the Group's share of the joint venture's post-acquisition changes to shareholders' funds, is included in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The Group's share of post-acquisition profit or loss and other comprehensive income is stated after appropriate adjustments to align the accounting policies of the joint venture with those of the Group.
In addition, adjustments are made for the amortisation of separately identifiable intangible assets recognised on acquisition and to eliminate unrealised profits relating to commission charged to esure Group plc by the joint venture.
Carrying values are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
If any such indications exist, the asset's recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying value.
Impairment losses are recognised through the income statement.
Impairment may be reversed if conditions subsequently improve and credited through the income statement.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 71 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 72 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 2 Accounting policies continued Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of non-controlling interest in the acquiree, plus if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the pre-existing equity interest in the acquiree.
Any gain arising from the difference between the fair value of the Group's pre-existing equity interest and its carrying value is recorded as a deemed disposal gain in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Goodwill is recognised at the date of acquisition as the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any deferred tax asset or liability recognised as part of the business combination according to the requirements of IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Where the excess is negative a gain is recognised in the income statement at the date of acquisition.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions at the acquisition date.
All acquisition-related costs are expensed in the income statement when incurred.
Revenue Gross written premiums Gross written premiums, being the total premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided by contracts entered into during the accounting period, excluding taxes or duties based on premiums, are recognised on the date which the policy commences.
Gross written premiums include any adjustments arising in the accounting period for premiums receivable in respect of business written in prior accounting periods.
Unearned premiums The proportion of gross written premiums that are to be earned in the accounting period after the balance sheet date are deferred as a provision for unearned premiums.
Premiums earned are computed separately for each insurance contract and are recognised as revenue using the daily pro rata method, which is consistent with the incidence of risk assumed over the coverage period of the related policy.
Reinsurance premiums Reinsurance premiums are recognised and measured in a manner consistent with the related insured contracts issued by the Group and the specific terms of each reinsurance contract.
Reinsurance premiums are expensed over the period that the reinsurance cover is provided based on the expected pattern of the reinsured risks.
The unexpired portion of ceded reinsurance premiums is included in reinsurance assets.
Unearned reinsurance premiums Unearned reinsurance premiums are those proportions of premiums written in a year that relate to periods of risk after the reporting date.
Unearned reinsurance premiums are deferred over the term of the underlying direct insurance policies for risks-attaching contracts and over the term of the reinsurance contract for losses-occurring contracts.
Other income Other income comprises fees for additional services and, following the acquisition of the outstanding 50% of the ordinary shares of Gocompare on 31 March 2015, revenue relating to price comparison services.
Fees for additional services comprise sales of non-underwritten additional insurance products to Motor and Home insurance customers: policy administration fees: and fees generated from the appointment of firms used during the claims process and car hire suppliers.
Revenue relating to price comparison services received from third party partners is credited to the profit and loss account when the relevant policy or product is sold and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably, with a probable flow of economic benefits associated with the transaction to the Group.
Revenue earned on the sale of additional services includes both brokerage fees and commission, where the Group has a continuing relationship with the customer, and introducer fees, where the Group does not have a continuing relationship with the customer.
Revenue relating to insurance broking is brought into account when the policy placement has been completed and confirmed.
Where the Group has an obligation to provide future services to the customer an element of income relating to the policy is deferred to cover the cost of fulfilling the associated contractual obligation plus a reasonable profit margin.
Deferred revenue is credited to the income statement over the period matching the Group's obligations to provide those services.
Where the Group has no contractual obligation to provide future services, the revenue is recognised immediately.
In certain circumstances, where the revenue cannot be reliably measured at the contract or policy inception date, broking fees and commission are recognised on a periodic basis when the consideration becomes due.
Rebates of commissions and fees relating to the return of premiums for additional insurance products and services are recognised at the point the return is due.
Administration fees and referral fees from credit hire are recognised in the period in which the related services are provided.
Expenses incurred in relation to other income including, from 31 March 2015, price comparison income are reported within other operating expenses.
72 esure Group Annual Report 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 73 2 Accounting policies continued Revenue Investment income and instalment interest Investment income comprises interest and dividend income and net gains both realised and unrealised on financial assets classified at fair value through profit or loss, including derivative financial instruments.
Dividends are recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
For listed securities, this is the date the security is listed as ex-dividend.
Interest income including interest received from policyholders who pay by instalment on assets classified as loans and receivables is recognised in the income statement as it accrues and is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
The effective interest rate method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or liability and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the expected life of the asset or liability.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows to the instrument's initial carrying amount.
Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees payable or receivable that are an integral part of the instrument's yield, premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs.
All contractual terms of a financial instrument are considered when estimating future cash flows.
Investment income also includes rental income.
Rental income represents income arising from operating leases and is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Government grants Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attached conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as other income as fees for additional services over the period necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, it is recognised as deferred income and released to the income statement in equal amounts over the expected useful life of the related asset.
Claims and expenses recognition Gross claims incurred and claims handling expenses Gross claims include all claims incurred during the year, whether reported or not, less recoveries, together with related internal and external handling costs that are directly related to the processing and settlement of claims, and any adjustment to claims outstanding from previous years.
Reinsurance claims Reinsurance claims recognised and measured in a manner consistent with the related insurance contracts issued by the Group and the specific terms of the reinsurance contract.
Finance costs Finance costs comprise of interest paid which is recognised in the income statement as it accrues and is calculated by using the effective interest rate method.
Accrued interest is included within the carrying value of the interest bearing financial liability.
Taxation Current tax Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Current tax assets and liabilities also include adjustments in respect of tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
Current tax relating to items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income is recognised in equity or other comprehensive income and not in the income statement.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences arising between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for accounting purposes, and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
It is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is recovered, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted by the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination e. g. fair value adjustments for brands and customer relationships in which case the deferred tax is included as part of the assets and liabilities assumed for the purposes of calculating goodwill.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement is also recognised outside the income statement, either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity as appropriate.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Foreign currency translation Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to Sterling at the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to Sterling at the exchange rate at the reporting date.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in profit or loss in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 73 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 74 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 2 Accounting policies continued Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is recognised on business combinations and the acquisition of joint ventures at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on business combinations is presented in intangible assets.
For joint ventures, goodwill is not separately presented but is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Negative goodwill is recognised in the Group income statement at the date of acquisition.
Positive goodwill is not amortised.
Impairment of goodwill Goodwill arising on a business combination is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of the cash generating unit or units to which the goodwill is allocated exceeds its recoverable amount.
A recognised impairment loss is not reversed.
Goodwill attributed to an investment in a joint venture accounted under the equity method is not tested for impairment separately.
The entire carrying amount of the investment is tested for impairment only if there is objective evidence of impairment.
A recognised impairment loss may be reversed if conditions subsequently improve.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets are amortised over their useful lives.
For intangible assets that are recognised as part of business combinations, the Group makes an assessment of the fair value of the identified intangible assets acquired in the business combination.
Intangible assets other than those arising as part of business combinations are recognised as long as it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The Group holds no intangible assets with indefinite useful lives other than goodwill.
The carrying value of intangible assets with finite useful lives is reviewed at every reporting date for evidence of impairment with the value being written down if any impairment exists.
If conditions subsequently improve, the previously recognised impairment may be reversed and credited through the income statement.
The economic lives and amortisation methods of acquired intangible assets, other than software, are as follows: Insurer customer relationships 5 to 6 years, based on the pattern of consumption of the benefits Gocompare customer relationships 2 years, on a straight-line basis Insurer brands 8 to 10 years, on a straight-line basis Gocompare brand 5 years, on a straight-line basis Software Purchased software is recognised as an intangible asset, with the carrying value being reviewed at every reporting date for evidence of impairment and the value being written down if any impairment exists.
If conditions subsequently improve, the previously recognised impairment may be reversed.
Amortisation of software begins when it is available for use, i. e. when it is in the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
The cost of purchased software is amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the intangible asset.
This has been set between two and seven years.
Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Costs associated with the development of software for internal use are capitalised only if the software is technically feasible for sale or use on completion and the Group has both the intent and sufficient resources to complete the development.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if the cost of the asset can be reliably measured, will generate future economic benefits and there is an ability to use or sell the asset.
The cost of internally generated software is amortised over the expected useful life of the intangible asset on a straight-line basis.
The expected useful life is between three and five years.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment comprises land and buildings occupied by the Group and fixtures, fittings and equipment including computer hardware.
Land and buildings are stated at their revalued amount, which is the fair value, less subsequent depreciation for buildings.
All other assets are stated at cost less depreciation and accumulated impairment.
Replacement or major inspection costs are capitalised when incurred if it is possible that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably.
Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use, i. e. when it is in the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to write off the cost less residual values of the assets over their economic lives, with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated.
The economic lives are as follows: Fixtures, fittings and equipment between 3 and 8 years Freehold buildings 100 years The assets' residual values, useful lives and method of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no further future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement in the year in which the asset is derecognised.
74 esure Group Annual Report 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 75 2 Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment continued Impairment and revaluation of property, plant and equipment Carrying values are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value of the asset, less costs to sell and the asset's value in use.
Revaluations of land and buildings are undertaken annually, with more frequent revaluations occurring where an assessment is made that the carrying amount may differ materially from its fair value.
Where a revaluation occurs, any accumulated depreciation at the time of the revaluation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset.
Increases in the carrying amount arising on the revaluation of Group occupied property are credited to revaluation reserves in other comprehensive income, unless they offset previous decreases of the same asset that have been charged to the income statement, in which case the increase is also charged to the income statement.
Similarly, decreases that offset previous increases of the same asset that have been credited to a revaluation surplus are recorded directly in other comprehensive income as a reduction in the revaluation surplus: other decreases are charged to the income statement.
Financial assets Classification Financial assets falling within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are designated classified as at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, available-for-sale or held for trading.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
The Group does not classify any financial assets as held to maturity financial assets.
The Group's financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, other debtors and quoted and unquoted financial investments including derivatives.
Insurance receivables are also presented as financial assets.
Initial recognition of financial assets The Group designates on initial recognition its financial assets held for investment purposes at fair value through the profit or loss FVTPL with the exception of derivatives, which are classified as held for trading, and an unquoted financial investment the Group's interest in IMe Law Limited whose performance is not evaluated on a fair value basis, which is classified as available-for-sale AFS.
All other financial assets are classified as loans and receivables.
For those financial investments designated at FVTPL, this is in accordance with the Group's documented investment strategy.
Information relating to these investments is provided internally to the Group's Directors and key managers on a fair value basis.
The Group's financial assets are initially recognised at fair value, plus any directly attributable transaction costs, with the exception of financial assets at FVTPL for which directly attributable transaction costs are expensed as incurred.
If the Group determines that the fair value of a financial asset on initial recognition differs from its transaction price, but the fair value measurement is not evidenced by a valuation technique that uses only data from observable markets, then this difference is deferred and is subsequently recognised as investment income only to the extent that there is a change in factor including time that would result in a market participant taking the data into account when setting a price for the financial asset.
Purchases and sales of financial assets are accounted for at the trade date.
Subsequent measurement Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised through profit or loss.
Available-for-sale financial assets are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss other than impairments recognised through other comprehensive income and accumulated in the available-for-sale reserve.
When available-for-sale financial assets are derecognised, the gain or loss accumulated in the available-for-sale reserve is reclassified to profit or loss.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost less accumulated impairment losses using the effective interest rate method.
Impairment of financial assets Objective evidence of impairment may include default on cash flows from the asset and reporting financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty.
Financial assets measured at amortised cost The Group assesses at each reporting date whether any financial assets held at amortised cost are impaired.
Financial assets are impaired where there is evidence that one or more events occurring after the initial recognition of the asset may lead to a reduction in the estimated future cash flows arising from the asset.
Impairment losses on financial assets classified as loans and receivables are calculated as the difference between the carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the asset's original effective interest rate.
Impairment losses and any reversals of impairments are recognised through the income statement.
Available-for-sale financial assets Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets are recognised by reclassifying the losses accumulated in the available-for-sale reserve to profit or loss.
The amount reclassified is the difference between the value on initial recognition and the current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in profit or loss.
If the fair value of an impaired available-for-sale financial asset subsequently increases, then the impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that it offsets impairment losses previously recognised: otherwise, it is recognised in the available-for sale reserve.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 75 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 76 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 2 Accounting policies continued Financial assets continued Derecognition of financial assets A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from that asset have expired or when the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset.
Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if, and only if, the Group has a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and it intends to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
Income and expenses are not offset in the income statement unless required or permitted by any accounting standard or interpretation.
Reinsurance The Group cedes insurance risk in the normal course of business for the purpose of limiting its potential losses from accepting insurance risk.
Reinsurance assets represent amounts expected to be recovered from reinsurers in respect of claims incurred under the related insurance contracts and are estimated in a manner consistent with the outstanding claims provision or settled claims under the related insurance contracts.
Reinsurance assets are reviewed for impairment at each reporting date or more frequently when an indication of impairment arises during the reporting period.
Impairment occurs when there is objective evidence as a result of an event that occurred after initial recognition of the reinsurance asset that the Group may not receive all outstanding amounts due under the terms of the contract and the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
Any impairment loss is recorded in the income statement.
Insurance receivables Insurance receivables are recognised when contracts are entered into and are measured on initial recognition at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
Subsequent to initial recognition, insurance receivables are measured at amortised cost less accumulated impairment losses, using the effective interest rate method.
The carrying value of insurance receivables is reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, with the impairment loss recorded in the income statement.
Insurance receivables are derecognised when the derecognition criteria for financial assets as described in the financial asset accounting policy, have been met.
Deferred acquisition costs DAC Acquisition costs comprise all commission and other direct and indirect acquisition costs arising from the conclusion of insurance contracts.
Deferred acquisition costs represent the proportion of acquisition costs incurred that corresponds to the unearned premiums provision at the reporting date, and are deferred to the extent that these costs are recoverable out of future premiums.
All other acquisition costs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, DAC assets are amortised over the period in which the related revenues are earned.
DAC assets are derecognised when the obligations under the related insurance contracts are either transferred or settled.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, and other short-term deposits with original maturities of three months or less that are held to meet short-term cash commitments rather than for investment or other purposes.
Insurance contract liabilities Provision for unearned premiums The provision for unearned premiums represents the portion of premiums received or receivable that relates to risks that have not yet expired at the reporting date.
The provision is recognised when the contracts are entered into and premiums are charged, and is released as earned premium in the income statement over the term of the contract in accordance with the pattern of insurance service provided under the contract.
Liability adequacy test At each reporting date the Group reviews its unexpired risk and performs a liability adequacy test to determine whether the estimated cost of future claims and deferred acquisition costs exceeds the provision for unearned premiums.
This calculation uses current estimates of future contractual cash flows after taking account of the investment return expected to arise on assets relating to the relevant technical provision.
If these estimates show that the carrying amount of the unearned premium is inadequate, the deficiency is recognised in the income statement and a corresponding provision for unexpired risk is recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Outstanding claims provision The provision for claims outstanding comprises provisions for the estimated cost of settling all claims incurred but not settled at the balance sheet date including related claims handling expenses, whether reported or not.
Anticipated reinsurance recoveries and salvage and subrogation recoveries are disclosed separately as assets.
Insurance payables Insurance payables are recognised when due and measured initially at the fair value of the consideration received.
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
76 esure Group Annual Report 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 77 2 Accounting policies continued Financial liabilities Financial liabilities falling within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as derivatives held for trading, or other financial liabilities.
The Group determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
The Group's other financial liabilities include other payables and borrowings.
Insurance payables are also presented as other financial liabilities.
Initial recognition All financial liabilities are measured initially at fair value less, in the case of other financial liabilities, directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent measurement After initial recognition, other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any fees or costs that are an integral part of effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums and discounts.
The amortisation is included in finance costs in the income statement.
Derecognition of financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives Derivatives are measured at fair value both initially and subsequent to initial recognition.
All changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives are presented as assets when the fair values are positive and as liabilities when the fair values are negative.
Hedge accounting The Group does not currently designate any derivatives as hedging instruments.
Share capital Shares are classified as equity when there is no contractual obligation to transfer cash or other assets to holders of the financial instruments.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of the expenditure required to settle a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to a provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Employee benefits pensions The Group contributes to a defined contribution scheme for its employees.
The contributions payable to this scheme are charged to the income statement in the accounting period to which they relate.
Leases Group as a lessor Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as the related income.
Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned i. e. when virtually certain.
Group as a lessee operating leases Leases which do not transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased items are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments, including the effects of any lease incentives, are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Share-based payments Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the grant date at the fair value of the equity instruments excluding the effect of non-market vesting conditions but including the effect of market vesting conditions.
Fair value is not subsequently remeasured.
The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity, based on the best estimate of the number of awards which will ultimately vest unconditionally with employees.
The estimate of the number of awards expected to vest excluding the effect of market vesting conditions is revised at each reporting date, with any consequential changes to the charge recognised in the income statement.
Where equity-settled share-based payments are modified, any incremental fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the revised vesting period.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 77 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 78 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 3 Critical accounting judgements and estimates The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates: however, the consolidated financial statements presented are based on conditions that existed at the balance sheet date.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying the Group's accounting policies Insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance assets Estimates have to be made both for the expected ultimate cost of claims reported at the reporting date and for the expected ultimate cost of claims incurred but not reported IBNR at the reporting date.
It can take a significant period of time before ultimate claims cost can be established with certainty for some types of claims.
The ultimate cost of outstanding claims is estimated by carrying out standard actuarial projections in line with the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries Technical Actuarial Standards.
These techniques use past claims information and development patterns of these claims to project the expected future claims cost both for notified and non-notified claims.
Similar judgements, estimates and assumptions are employed in the assessment of adequacy of provisions for unearned premium and hence whether there is a requirement for an unexpired risk provision.
Please refer to note 20 for additional details.
Intangible assets recognised on acquisition of the outstanding 50% of Gocompare On acquiring the outstanding 50% of Gocompare, the Group recognised intangible assets separately from goodwill as required by IFRS 3 Business Combinations IFRS 3.
The valuations were performed using fair value as the standard of value, being the amount for which an asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
The valuation techniques applied to the identified intangible assets were selected based on the nature of the asset and experience of management, being the relief-from-royalty method for the brand and the multi-period excess earnings approach for customer relationships.
Cash flow projections underlying the valuations were based on Board approved forecasts at the date of acquisition.
Management judgement was applied in calibrating key inputs to the valuation models including: profit margins, growth rates, persistency, royalty rates, contributory charges and the discount rate.
4 Segmental information Operating segments The Group has five operating segments as described below.
These segments are also the Group's reportable segments and represent the manner in which the business is regularly reported to the Group's executive and Board of Directors.
Motor underwriting This segment incorporates the revenues and expenses directly attributable to the Group's Motor insurance underwriting activities inclusive of additional insurance products underwritten by the Group.
Home underwriting This segment incorporates the revenues and expenses directly attributable to the Group's Home insurance underwriting activities.
Non-underwritten additional services This segment represents the revenue and expenses relating to sales of third-party additional insurance products to Motor and Home insurance customers: policy administration fees: instalment interest income: fees generated from the appointment of firms used during the claims process and car hire suppliers.
Price comparison services Following the acquisition of the outstanding 50% of the ordinary shares of Gocompare on 31 March 2015, this segment represents the contribution of Gocompare to the Groups consolidated income and expenses, other than the amortisation of the Gocompare brand and customer relationships and the joint venture deemed disposal gain which are reported as non-trading items.
The amortisation of acquired intangible assets relating to the Gocompare brand and partner relationships recognised on application of IFRS 3 is presented in amortisation of acquired intangibles.
The joint venture deemed disposal gain recognised on application of IFRS 3 to the acquisition is presented as a separate item.
Gocompares tax expense for the period following acquisition is presented in the Groups tax expense.
The share of joint venture profit received until 31 March 2015 is reported in the investments segment in the same way as the Groups share of joint venture profit is presented in the segmental information provided for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Investments This segment represents income from investments to manage liabilities under insurance contracts and generate return for shareholders and the Group's interest in Gocompare prior to the 31 March 2015 acquisition.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 78 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 79 4 Segmental information continued Segmental revenues, expenses and other information An analysis of the Groups results by reportable segment is shown below: NonPrice underwritten comparison Motor Home additional from 1 underwriting underwriting services Investments 1 4 2015 Total Year ended 31 December 2015 m m m m m m Gross written premiums 461.0 89.3 550.3 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 413.0 82.6 495.6 Investment income 6.1 6.1 Instalment interest income 30.2 30.2 Other income 38.1 84.1 122.2 Total income 413.0 82.6 68.3 84.1 6.1 654.1 Net incurred claims 315.1 51.4 366.5 Claims handling costs 18.0 3.1 21.1 Insurance expenses 73.2 23.9 97.1 Other operating expenses 13.2 67.4 80.6 Total expenses 406.3 78.4 13.2 67.4 565.3 Share of joint venture profit 3.5 3.5 Trading profit 6.7 4.2 55.1 16.7 9.6 92.3 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 12.7 Non-trading costs 0.2 Joint venture deemed disposal gain 63.8 Finance costs 8.7 Profit before taxation 134.5 Tax expense 12.6 Profit after taxation 121.9 Net expense ratio 22.1% 32.7% 23.8% Net loss ratio 76.3% 62.2% 74.0% Combined operating ratio 98.4% 94.9% 97.8% 1.
The Price comparison segment reports Gocompares contribution to the Groups trading profit subsequent to the acquisition of the outstanding 50% of the ordinary shares of Gocompare on 31 March 2015.
The Groups 3.5m 50% share of Gocompares profit up until the date of acquisition is reported as share of joint venture profit in the investments segment.
The average number of in-force policies during the year ended 31 December 2015 was 1.99m.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2015 79 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 80 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 4 Segmental information continued Nonunderwritten Motor Home additional underwriting underwriting services Investments Total Year ended 31 December 2014 m m m m m Gross written premiums 429.3 88.5 517.8 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 407.7 83.1 490.8 Investment income 12.4 12.4 Instalment interest income 30.5 30.5 Other income 36.8 36.8 Total income 407.7 83.1 67.3 12.4 570.5 Net incurred claims 284.8 49.1 333.9 Claims handling costs 15.7 2.8 18.5 Insurance expenses 76.1 22.8 98.9 Other operating expenses 16.3 16.3 Total expenses 376.6 74.7 16.3 467.6 Share of joint venture profit 12.5 12.5 Trading profit 31.1 8.4 51.0 24.9 115.4 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 3.9 Non-trading costs 5.3 Finance costs 0.3 Profit before taxation 105.9 Tax expense 23.5 Profit after taxation 82.4 Net expense ratio 22.5% 30.8% 23.9% Net loss ratio 69.9% 59.1% 68.0% Combined operating ratio 92.4% 89.9% 91.9% The average number of in-force policies during the year ended 31 December 2014 was 1.96m.
There are no other material components of income and expense or non-cash items.
Trading profit, being earnings before interest, tax, non-trading expenses and amortisation of acquired intangible assets, is management's measure of the overall profitability of the Group's operating activities.
The Group's segmental trading profit, comprised of Motor underwriting, Home underwriting, Investments, Non-underwritten additional services and Price comparison services is 92.3m 2014: 115.4m.
The Group's profit after tax is 121.9m 2014: 82.4m.
The Group incurred non-trading costs of 0.2m in 2015 relating to activities associated with the acquisition of Gocompare see note 12 and share-based payments in respect of the long service and one-off awards disclosed in note 27, offset by a 1.3m upwards revaluation of the Group's land and buildings.
The Group incurred non-trading costs of 5.3m in 2014 relating to activities associated with the acquisition of Gocompare and share-based payments in respect of the long service and one-off awards disclosed in note 27.
Segmental profit drivers Motor and Home underwriting The performance of the Motor and Home underwriting segments is measured by reference to a number of performance metrics, including in-force policies and the combined operating ratio.
Profitability of segmental underwriting activities is measured by reference to the net loss ratio, being net incurred claims as a percentage of earned premiums, net of reinsurance.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Motor underwriting net loss ratio was 76.3% 2014: 69.9% and the Home underwriting net loss ratio was 62.2% 2014: 59.1%.
The overall profitability of the Group's underwriting activities is measured by reference to the combined operating ratio, being the net expense ratio net insurance expenses plus claims handling costs as a percentage of earned premiums, net of reinsurance plus the net loss ratio.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, the net expense ratio was 23.8% 2014: 23.9%, giving a combined operating ratio of 97.8% 2014: 91.9%.
All Motor and Home underwriting income is generated in the UK.
80 esure Group Annual Report 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 81 4 Segmental information continued Additional services The performance of additional services inclusive of underwritten additional insurance products that are reported within the Motor underwriting segment is measured by reference to revenue per in-force policy IFP on a rolling 12-month basis.
Price comparison services Following the acquisition of Gocompare, the performance of price comparison services is measured by reference to Gocompare's contribution to the Group's trading profit.
Investment income The performance of investment income is measured by reference to gross investment return on invested assets.
In addition, the Group received income from its investment in IMe Law Limited.
Statement of financial position The assets and liabilities of the Group are reported on an aggregated consolidated basis.
They are not allocated to reportable segments and are reported on the same basis as disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position on page 68.
Reconciliation of segmental reporting to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income The Group's segmental reporting presents amortisation of acquired intangible assets separately from other operating expenses.
The Group's share of joint venture profit is presented before tax and amortisation.
5 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Gross written premiums 550.3 517.8 Change in unearned premium provision 17.9 10.9 Premium revenue arising from insurance contracts issued 532.4 528.7 Written premiums, ceded to reinsurers 37.8 35.3 Change in unearned premium provision 1.0 2.6 36.8 37.9 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 495.6 490.8 6 Investment income and instalment interest Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Interest income on financial investments at FVTPL 13.1 14.6 Interest income on cash deposits 0.4 0.2 Investment expenses 3.3 3.4 Fair value losses gains on derivative financial instruments 1.2 2.3 Losses on financial investments recognised at fair value 3.3 1.6 Rental income 0.4 0.3 Total investment income 6.1 12.4 Instalment interest 30.2 30.5 Total investment income and instalment interest 36.3 42.9 Total interest income calculated using the effective interest rate method comprises interest income on cash deposits and instalment interest.
7 Other income Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Price comparison income from 31 March 2015 84.1 Fees for additional services 38.1 36.8 Total other income 122.2 36.8 esure Group Annual Report 2015 81 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 82 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 8 Employee benefit expense Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Wages and salaries 52.8 45.7 Social security costs 6.2 4.5 Pension costs defined contribution schemes 2.4 2.2 Equity settled share-based payment expenses note 27 2.2 2.0 Total employee benefit expense 63.6 54.4 The average number of employees, including Directors, during each period was: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Price comparison from 31 March 2015 129 Operations 1,193 1,222 Support 412 391 Total average number of employees 1,734 1,613 9 Directors' remuneration Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Emoluments 2.5 2.4 Contributions to defined contribution pension scheme 0.1 0.1 Total Directors' remuneration 2.6 2.5 Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Emoluments 0.7 0.8 Contributions to defined contribution pension scheme 0.1 Total remuneration of the highest paid Director 0.8 0.8 Directors' emoluments do not include the value of any share options granted to Directors.
Full disclosure of the awards is provided in note 27.
No Directors exercised share options during the year 2014: nil and no shares were exercisable as at 31 December 2015 2014: nil.
Retirement benefits were accruing to two Directors 2014: two in respect of defined contribution pension schemes.
10 Insurance and other operating expenses Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Acquisition of insurance contracts 52.2 50.1 Change in DAC 2.7 0.1 Administration 42.2 48.7 Insurance expenses 97.1 98.9 Other operating expenses 93.1 24.1 Following the acquisition of the outstanding 50% of the ordinary shares of Gocompare on 31 March 2015, other operating expenses include expenses incurred in relation to price comparison services.
For the year ended 31 December 2015 these were 67.4m see note 4.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, a credit of 1.3m is included within other operating expenses in relation to a revaluation of the Group's land and buildings 2014: 0.1m.
In addition, 0.2m of other operating expenses were incurred in relation to activities associated with the acquisition of Gocompare 2014: 3.8m.
82 esure Group Annual Report 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 83 11 Profit after tax Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Employee benefit expense note 8 63.6 54.4 Depreciation and revaluation of property, plant and equipment 0.1 1.2 Amortisation of intangible assets 13.6 3.2 Operating lease payments 3.7 3.7 Government grant income 0.2 0.2 Auditors remuneration: Fees for audit services Audit of these financial statements 0.1 0.1 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 0.2 0.2 Total audit fees 0.3 0.3 Fees for non-audit services Audit-related assurance services 0.0 0.0 Tax compliance services 0.0 0.1 Tax advisory fees 0.0 0.0 Corporate finance services All other services 0.0 0.2 Total non-audit fees 0.1 0.3 Total Group auditor remuneration 0.4 0.6 Amortisation arises on software, acquired brands and customer relationships.
Amortisation charged is recorded within insurance expenses and other operating expenses.
com Holdings Limited On 31 March 2015, the Group acquired the outstanding 50% of the ordinary shares of Gocompare.
Following the acquisition, the Group owns 100% of the ordinary share capital of Gocompare and controls 100% of the voting rights.
Gocompare is an internet based price comparison website for financial and non-financial products.
The acquisition has been made to further the Group's strategy of diversifying its income streams, with significant opportunities to grow Gocompares revenues and profitability over the medium to long term.
Consideration transferred The Group paid 96.2m in cash for the outstanding 50% of the ordinary share capital of Gocompare, being the 95.0m committed to as at 31 December 2014 and 1.2m arising as a result of the adjustment mechanism described in the Groups 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
In line with the requirements of IFRS 3, the Groups existing 50% interest in Gocompare was remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date, with the resulting gain of 63.8m recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as a joint venture deemed disposal gain.
This treatment effectively considers that the Groups existing interest is sold immediately prior to the acquisition at its fair value, and subsequently repurchased at the same value at the acquisition date.
The fair value of the Groups existing interest immediately prior to the acquisition has been estimated to be equal to the fair value of consideration offered by the Group for the other 50% of Gocompare.
The table below summarises the acquisition date fair values of each major class of consideration transferred: m Cash m 96.2 Fair value of existing interest in Gocompare m 96.2 Total reported consideration 192.4 Acquisition-related costs The Group incurred total acquisition-related costs of 4.0m, of which 0.2m are included within other operating expenses for the year ended 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: 3.8m.
These expenses are reported as non-trading costs in the Groups segmental reporting note 4. esure Group Annual Report 2015 83 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 84 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 12 Acquisition of Gocompare.
com Holdings Limited continued Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed The following table summarises the book values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair values at the date of acquisition: Fair value IFRS Fair value at the book values adjustments acquisition date m m m Assets Gocompare brand 40.9 40.9 Gocompare customer relationships 10.2 10.2 Software 1.2 1.2 Intangible assets 1.2 51.1 52.3 Property, plant and equipment 1.4 1.4 Cash and cash equivalents 21.1 21.1 Other assets 14.0 14.0 Total assets 37.7 51.1 88.8 Liabilities Other liabilities 13.9 10.2 24.1 Total liabilities 13.9 10.2 24.1 Net assets 23.8 40.9 64.7 Goodwill 127.7 Total reported consideration 192.4 Measurement of fair values Identifiable intangible assets at the acquisition date include fair values of 40.9m for the Gocompare brand and 10.2m for the Gocompare customer relationships with a related deferred tax liability recognised of 10.2m for these intangible assets.
The brand and customer relationships were valued according to the relief-from-royalty method and the multi-period excess earnings method respectively.
The relief-from-royalty method considers the notional present value of estimated royalty payments that would be payable were the Gocompare brand to be licensed from a third-party owner.
A royalty rate of 10% of revenue was used for the Gocompare brand based on comparable royalty rates in the market place, applied to the brands estimated useful economic life of five years.
The multi-period excess earnings method considers the present value of net cash flows expected to be generated by Gocompare's customer relationships over their estimated useful economic life of two years, by excluding from Gocompare's total forecast cash flows any estimated cash flows relating to other contributory assets.
For all other assets the IFRS book values were considered to approximate fair value.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition of 127.7m relates to future value derived from the Group having gained control of Gocompare, planned strategic developments and other intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition under IFRS 3.
No goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Impact on reported revenue and profit after tax Had the acquisition occurred on 1 January 2015, assuming that the same joint venture deemed disposal gain and fair value adjustments that arose at the date of acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2015, the adjustments to the Groups income, profit after tax and trading profit for the year ended 31 December 2015 would have been as follows:  Increase in other income of 29.0m to 151.2m for the year ended 31 December 2015 following inclusion of revenue relating to Gocompare:  Increase in profit after tax of 0.5m to 122.4m for the year ended 31 December 2015, including 3.3m of additional other operating expenses relating to amortisation of acquired intangibles: and  Increase in consolidated trading profit of 3.4m to 95.7m for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Year ended 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2014, the Group owned 50% of the ordinary share capital and had a 50% interest in Gocompare.
The Group's interest in Gocompare was classified as a joint venture under IFRS 11.
84 esure Group Annual Report 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 85 12 Acquisition of Gocompare.
com Holdings Limited continued Impact on reported revenue and profit after tax continued Year ended 31 December 2014 continued The following represents the assets, liabilities, revenue and results of the joint venture for the year ended 31 December 2014 after adjustments made to comply with the equity method of accounting: 2014 m Non-current assets including goodwill of 41.6m and intangible assets of 0.7m recognised on application of the equity method 43.3 Current assets 47.6 Total assets 90.9 Current liabilities 11.3 Non-current liabilities Total liabilities 11.3 Net assets 79.6 esure Group plcs share of net assets 50% : 39.8 Revenue 113.3 Expenses 88.5 Amortisation of intangible assets recognised on application of the equity method by esure Group plc 2.7 Adjustment to eliminate unrealised profits 0.1 Profit before tax 22.2 Taxation expense 5.3 Profit after tax 16.9 esure Group plcs share of net assets 50% : 8.5 Memorandum items Cash and cash equivalents 36.2 Depreciation and software licence amortisation 1.1 Financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions Interest income and expenses 0.2 Other comprehensive income Dividends received from the joint venture Prior to the acquisition, the Group received dividends from Gocompare during 2015 of 10.0m 2014: 8.8m.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 85 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 86 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 13 Finance costs Finance costs in each period represent the total interest expense calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Interest expense on 10 year subordinated notes see note 19 8.7 0.3 Total finance costs 8.7 0.3 14 Taxation Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Current taxes on income for the reporting period 14.1 18.0 Tax adjustment relating to income for prior periods 0.2 0.1 Total current tax 13.9 17.9 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1.8 3.0 Effect of change in tax rate 0.0 0.0 Total deferred tax credit charge 1.8 3.0 Total finance costs 12.1 20.9 The tax rate used for the calculations is the Corporation Tax rate of 20.25% 2014: 21.5% payable by corporate entities in the UK on taxable profits under tax law in that jurisdiction.
The deferred tax rates used are those that apply to the year the tax charge or credit is expected to materialise.
The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the profit before tax per the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Profit before taxation 134.0 103.3 Taxation calculated at 20.25% 2014: 21.5% 27.1 22.2 Effect of expenses that are not deductible 0.0 0.8 Adjustments in relation to the current tax of prior years 0.2 0.1 Non-taxable income 14.8 2.0 Change in tax rate 0.0 0.0 Taxation expense 12.1 20.9 The adjustment for non-taxable income includes 12.8m in respect of the 63.8m joint venture deemed disposal gain.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Tax recognised directly in equity Deferred tax credit recognised directly in equity 0.1 0.0 Total finance costs 0.1 0.0 The deferred tax recognised directly in equity relates to deferred tax arising on share-based payments where the amount of the estimated future tax deduction exceeds the amount of the related cumulative remuneration expense recognised.
Factors affecting the tax charge for future periods A reduction in the standard rate of Corporation Tax from 23% to 21% was effective from 1 April 2014.
A further reduction in the rate of Corporation Tax from 21% to 20% was effective from 1 April 2015.
There will be a reduction in the rate of Corporation Tax to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 18% from 1 April 2020.
This change was substantively enacted at the year-end date and has been taken into account in the rate used to calculate the deferred tax liability recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015.
86 esure Group Annual Report 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 87 15 Dividends A 2015 interim dividend per share of 4.2p 17.5m was declared by the Board of Directors in August 2015 2014: interim dividend per share of 5.1p, 21.3m.
Subsequent to the year end, a 2015 final dividend per share of 7.3p 30.3m was declared by the Board of Directors 2014: final dividend per share of 11.7p, 48.8m.
16 Earnings per share Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Group and the weighted average of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period, excluding Ordinary Shares held as employee trust shares.
Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Group by the weighted average of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period adjusted for any dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
Share issues during the year are set out in note 26.
The difference between the basic and diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year, being 1,202,953 2014: 607,206, relates to the dilutive potential of the share-based payment arrangements.
Details of share awards are set out in note 27.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Profit after taxation 121.9 82.4 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares million basic 415.5 415.3 Unadjusted earnings per share basic pence per share 29.34 19.84 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares million diluted 416.7 415.9 Unadjusted earnings per share diluted pence per share 29.25 19.81 Underlying earnings per share As a result of the acquisition of the outstanding 50% of the share capital of Gocompare on 31 March 2015, the Group has recognised a joint venture deemed disposal gain and amortisation relating to the intangible assets arising on the application of IFRS 3.
In order to better reflect the Groups performance for the period and its dividend paying capacity, an additional underlying earnings per share calculation is presented below.
The reported profit after tax for each period is adjusted for the Groups joint venture deemed disposal gain 31 December 2015: 63.8m: 31 December 2014: nil and amortisation of acquired intangibles, as disclosed in the segmental information in note 4, net of the deferred tax credit associated with the amortisation 31 December 2015: 10.1m: 31 December 2014: 3.2m.
The number of shares is set at the number of Ordinary Shares in issue at the reporting date.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Profit after taxation 121.9 82.4 Adjustments net of taxation 53.7 3.2 Underlying profit after tax 68.2 85.6 Number of shares million basic 416.9 416.8 Underlying earnings per share pence per share 16.4 20.5 esure Group Annual Report 2015 87 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 88 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 17 Goodwill and intangible assets Acquired Customer Goodwill Software brands relationships Total m m m m m Cost As at 1 January 2014 4.7 24.2 11.3 40.2 Additions in the year 2.8 2.8 As at 31 December 2014 7.5 24.2 11.3 43.0 Acquisition through business combination note 12 127.7 1.2 40.9 10.2 180.0 Additions in the year 1.8 1.8 As at 31 December 2015 127.7 10.5 65.1 21.5 224.8 Accumulated amortisation and impairment As at 1 January 2014 2.9 12.9 10.8 26.6 Amortisation for the year 0.6 2.2 0.3 3.1 As at 31 December 2014 3.5 15.1 11.1 29.7 Amortisation for the year 1.2 8.4 4.0 13.6 As at 31 December 2015 4.7 23.5 15.1 43.3 Net book value As at 31 December 2014 4.0 9.1 0.2 13.3 As at 31 December 2015 127.7 5.8 41.6 6.4 181.5 Goodwill of 127.7m as at 31 December 2015 relates to goodwill arising on the acquisition of Gocompare by the Group see note 12.
Included in software as at 31 December 2015 is 2.8m relating to assets which are not yet available for use in the manner intended by management 31 December 2014: 2.9m.
As a result, no depreciation has been charged on these assets during the year.
Work on bringing these assets into a condition necessary for their intended use is expected to be completed during the six months ending 30 June 2016, after which the assets are expected to have a useful economic life of five years.
Included in acquired brands and customer relationships are the Gocompare brand and the Gocompare customer relationships recognised on application of IFRS 3 to the acquisition of the outstanding 50% of the ordinary share capital of Gocompare on 31 March 2015.
The Gocompare brand had an estimated fair value at the date of acquisition of 40.9m and is being amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful economic life of five years.
The Gocompare customer relationships had an estimated fair value at the date of acquisition of 10.2m and are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic life of two years.
The other acquired brands and customer relationship intangible assets represent the Sheilas' Wheels and esure brands and customer relationships acquired by the Group as part of the acquisition of esure Holdings Limited in February 2010.
These assets were fair valued at the date of acquisition in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3.
The brands are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives of between eight and 10 years.
The customer relationships are being amortised on a reducing balance basis over their estimated useful economic lives of between five and six years.
Impairment testing on intangible assets The Group tests intangible assets with finite useful lives for impairment where there are indicators that their carrying value may be impaired.
There were no indicators of impairment in the periods reported for any intangible assets with finite useful lives and as a result no impairment testing was performed.
Goodwill In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36, goodwill arising on the acquisition of Gocompare is tested annually for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill is allocated with its recoverable amount, which represents the higher of its estimated fair value and value in use.
An impairment loss is recognised when the carrying value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of the Gocompare cash-generating unit is based on its value in use, which is determined using cash flow projections derived from financial plans approved by the Board covering a three-year period.
They reflect the Board's expectations of revenue, EBITDA growth, capital expenditure, working capital and operating cash flows, based on past experience and future expectations of business performance.
Cash flows beyond the three-year period have been extrapolated using perpetuity growth rates.
A growth rate of 3% has been applied to extrapolate the cash flows into perpetuity.
Growth has been capped at 3% so as not to exceed the long-term expected growth rate of the country and industry Gocompare operates in, in accordance with IAS 36.
The pre-tax discount rate used was 13%.
The Directors are comfortable that a reasonable change in the underlying assumptions would not indicate an impairment.
88 esure Group Annual Report 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 89 18 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Land and fittings and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost As at 1 January 2014 11.6 7.3 18.9 Additions in the year 13.2 Revaluation of land and buildings 0.0 13.2 As at 31 December 2014 13.2 0.0 Acquisition through business combination note 12 1.4 Additions in the year 6.6 32.1 Revaluation of land and buildings 1.3 18.9 As at 31 December 2015 12.9 28.5 32.1 Accumulated depreciation As at 1 January 2014 4.3 4.3 Depreciation for the year 0.1 1.1 1.1 Revaluation of land and buildings 0.1 As at 31 December 2014 5.4 5.4 Depreciation for the year 0.1 1.2 1.2 Revaluation of land and buildings 0.1 As at 31 December 2015 6.6 6.6 Carrying amount As at 31 December 2014 11.6 15.1 26.7 As at 31 December 2015 12.9 21.9 34.8 Included in fixtures and fittings as at 31 December 2015 is 18.8m relating to computer hardware assets that are not yet available for use in the manner intended by management 31 December 2014: 12.5m.
Owner-occupied properties are stated at their revalued amounts, as assessed by qualified external valuers annually, all with recent relevant experience.
These values are assessed in accordance with the relevant parts of the current RICS Valuation Standards in the UK Red Book.
More frequent revaluations are performed by management to assess that the carrying amount does not materially differ from its fair value.
This assessment, on the basis of existing use value and in accordance with UK Valuation Standard 1.3, is the estimated amount for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arm's length transaction, after proper marketing wherein the parties had acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion, assuming that the buyer is granted vacant possession of all parts of the property required by the business and disregarding potential alternative uses and any other characteristics of the property that would cause its market value to differ from that needed to replace the remaining service potential at least cost.
The valuation assessment adopts market-based evidence and is in line with guidance from the International Valuation Standards Committee and the requirements of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment.
Independent valuations were performed as at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
If land and buildings were not stated at their revalued amounts, and were instead held under the cost model, land and buildings would have a carrying value at 31 December 2015 of 11.9m 31 December 2014: 12.0m.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 89 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 90 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 19 Financial assets and liabilities 19.1 Financial assets As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Financial investments designated at FVTPL: Shares and other variable-yield securities and units in unit trusts 39.3 40.5 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 497.9 544.2 Deposits with credit institutions 188.8 223.7 Financial investments held for trading: Derivative financial instruments 0.1 1.3 Financial investments at FVTPL 726.1 809.7 AFS financial assets: Shares in unquoted equity investments 2.4 0.3 Loans and receivables: Insurance and other receivables note 21 174.1 152.9 Cash and cash equivalents note 23 31.9 25.1 Total financial assets 934.5 988.0 Financial investments are held to support the Group's insurance activities and may be required to be realised in order to meet the obligations arising out of those activities at any time.
On that basis, the investments are deemed to be recoverable within 12 months.
Derivative financial instruments, at fair value through profit or loss To eliminate as far as possible the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the value of investments denominated in currencies other than Sterling, the Group has purchased over-the-counter forward currency contracts.
The Group also uses government bond futures as a mechanism to adjust investment portfolio duration.
The Group's exposure to currency risk is set out in note 19.3a iii.
19.2 Financial liabilities As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Financial liabilities held for trading: Derivative financial instruments 3.3 0.4 Other financial liabilities: Borrowings see below 122.6 122.4 Insurance and other payables note 24 15.2 10.8 Total financial liabilities 141.1 133.6 As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Borrowings 10 year Subordinated Notes 122.6 122.4 Total borrowings 122.6 122.4 Derivative financial instruments are due within one year.
Subordinated Notes 125m 10-year Subordinated Notes were issued by esure Group plc on 19 December 2014 at the rate of 6.75% per annum, with payments made biannually.
The estimated fair value of the 10-year Subordinated Notes as at 31 December 2015 is 118.1m.
The fair value estimate would be classified at level 2 in the fair value hierarchy described in note 19.3 e. The nominal 125m Subordinated Notes have a maturity date of 19 December 2024.
The Notes are direct, unsecured and subordinated obligations of the Group, ranking pari passu and without preference amongst themselves, and will, in the event of the winding-up of the Group or in the event of an administrator of the Group being appointed and giving notice that it intends to declare and distribute a dividend, be subordinated to the claims of all Senior Creditors and policy holders of the Group.
90 esure Group Annual Report 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 91 19 Financial assets and liabilities continued 19.3 Financial risk management objectives The Group is exposed to a range of financial risks through its financial assets, financial liabilities, reinsurance assets and policyholder liabilities.
In particular, the key financial risk is that the proceeds from financial assets are not sufficient to fund the obligations arising from insurance policies as they fall due.
The most important components of this financial risk are market risk including interest rate risk, equity price risk and currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
a Market risk These risks arise from open positions in interest rate, currency and equity products, all of which are exposed to general and specific market movements.
The market risks that the Group primarily faces due to the nature of its investments and liabilities are interest rate risk and equity price risk.
The Group manages market risk by virtue of its risk management framework, incorporating the Groups risk appetite and setting an appropriate investment strategy.
The majority of investments held are listed and traded on the UK and other recognised stock exchanges.
The Group has a defined investment strategy and market risk policy which sets limits on the Groups exposure by setting, where applicable, duration, issuer and concentration limits for each asset class.
The Groups Board appoints members to the Groups Investment Committee who are responsible for recommending future investment strategy, guidelines and policies, in line with the Board approved risk appetite, for the Boards approval.
Ultimately, the Board is responsible for setting the investment strategy, defining the risk appetite and appointing investment managers.
The day-to-day management of investments is delegated to the investment fund managers and monitored by the Investment Committee.
Investment Committee meetings, chaired by a Non-Executive Director, are held at least quarterly.
At these meetings, Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors and senior managers meet to discuss investment performance, composition and strategy across the Groups portfolio.
More frequent meetings are held by the Executive Directors and senior managers to monitor investment performance, and to determine whether an Investment Committee should be called outside the normal cycle of meetings.
i Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises primarily from investments in fixed interest securities.
The Investment Committee balances the portfolio of investments to manage the exposure to interest rate risk.
In addition, to the extent that claims inflation is correlated to interest rates, liabilities to policyholders are exposed to interest rate risk.
The Group monitors interest rate risk on a monthly basis by calculating the mean duration of key elements of the investment portfolio and of the liabilities to policyholders under insurance contracts.
The mean duration is an indicator of the sensitivity of the assets and liabilities to changes in current interest rates.
The mean duration of the technical liabilities is determined by means of projecting expected cash flows using standard actuarial claims projection techniques.
Asset allocation decisions made by the Investment Committee give due consideration to the duration and profile of liabilities to avoid any significant mismatch in the asset and liability profiles.
In order to preserve capital and to reduce the risk of an investment loss due to interest rate movements, it is acceptable for the duration of the asset portfolio to be shorter, but not longer than the average duration of the liabilities.
The Groups investment managers also have the ability to use Government bond futures as a mechanism to ensure portfolio duration remains within strict limits.
The sensitivity analysis for interest rate risk illustrates how changes in the fair value or future cash flows of the financial investments bearing interest rate risk will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates at the reporting date.
For an increase of 100 basis points in the Bank of England base rate, the profit before tax for the period would decrease by 6.0m 2014: 5.5m.
For a decrease of 25 basis points in the Bank of England base rate, the profit before tax for the period would increase by 1.5m 2014: 1.4m.
ii Equity price risk The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk as a result of its holdings in investments with prices quoted on a stock exchange which are designated as financial assets at FVTPL.
Exposures to individual companies and to equity shares in aggregate are monitored in order to ensure compliance with the relevant regulatory limits for solvency purposes.
If equity market indices had increased decreased by 10%, the profit before tax for the year would increase decrease by 3.9m 2014: 4.0m.
iii Currency risk The Group has exposure to currency risk in respect of certain investments denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
At the reporting date the most significant currencies to which the Group is exposed are Euros and US Dollars USD.
The Group seeks to mitigate currency risk by the use of forward contracts with a maturity of less than three months from the reporting date, matching the estimated foreign currency denominated assets with liabilities denominated in the same currency.
Strict agreements are in place with investment managers to ensure all non-Sterling debt securities and other fixed income securities are hedged to between 99.5% and 100.5% of the carrying value.
One investment manager, who holds shares and other variable yield securities, is permitted per their mandate to have unhedged currency risk exposure of up to 11.4m 2014: 11.2m.
At the reporting date, the Group has direct exposure to both USD and Swiss francs CHF through shares with a value of 2.2m 2014: 2.3m.
If the Sterling rates with either of these foreign currencies had strengthened weakened by 10%, the profit before tax for the year would decrease increase by 0.2m 2014: 0.2m.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 91 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 92 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 19 Financial assets and liabilities continued 19.3 Financial risk management objectives continued b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not be able to pay amounts in full when due in accordance with the term of the contract, causing the Group to incur a financial loss.
Key areas where the Group is exposed to credit risk are:  Credit instruments held within the investment portfolio:  Other amounts due from investment counterparties:  Reinsurers' share of insurance contract liabilities:  Amounts due from reinsurers in respect of claims already paid:  Amounts due from policyholders:  Subrogation and salvage recoveries: and  Amounts due from claims suppliers.
Reinsurance is used to manage insurance risk.
This does not, however, discharge the Group's liability as primary insurer.
If a reinsurer fails to pay a claim, the Group remains liable for the payment to the policyholder.
The creditworthiness of reinsurers is considered on an annual basis by reviewing their financial strength prior to finalisation of any contract.
In addition, management assesses the creditworthiness of all reinsurers by reviewing credit grades provided by rating agencies and other publicly available financial information.
An analysis of the credit grade of the Group's 10 largest exposures to reinsurers by Standard & Poor's S&P and A. M. Best ratings is produced and reviewed on a monthly basis.
The minimum credit rating that the Group requires for participation in its reinsurance programmes is Standard & Poor's Aor the A. M. Best equivalent.
The Group manages the levels of investment counterparty credit risk it accepts by placing limits on its exposure to a single counterparty, or groups of counterparties, and on geographical counterparties and geographical segments.
Such risks are subject to regular review by the Investment Committee.
Investments bearing credit risk, and cash and cash equivalents, are summarised below, together with an analysis by credit rating as at the reporting date: As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Derivative financial instruments 0.1 1.3 Debt securities 497.9 544.2 Deposits with credit institutions 188.8 223.7 Cash at bank and in hand 31.9 25.1 Investments bearing credit risk and cash and cash equivalents 718.7 794.3 AAA 297.0 350.1 AA 132.1 143.7 A 173.9 186.7 BBB 53.4 54.5 Below BBB or not rated 62.3 59.3 Investments bearing credit risk and cash and cash equivalents 718.7 794.3 Shares and other variableyield securities and units in unit trusts do not bear credit risk.
Cash and cash equivalents are A rated.
The analysis by credit rating illustrates a slight deterioration in credit quality over the period under review, with a lower proportion of assets rated AAA in 2015 compared to 2014.
At 2014, the net proceeds from the Groups issuance of 125.0m of Subordinated Notes were entirely invested in a AAA rated liquidity fund.
85.0m of these funds were used to acquire the remaining 50% of Gocompare on 31 March 2015.
Insurance receivables due from policyholders and other debtors are not subject to credit rating and are not included in the table above.
Owing to the high number of individual policyholders through which the Group has minimal individual exposure, the overall risk of default to the Group is considered to be insignificant.
The Group regularly reviews the ageing and individual characteristics of the counterparties of insurance receivables and other debtors to manage credit risk and to ensure that impairments are made where necessary.
No credit limits were exceeded during the year, and no significant financial assets are past due but not impaired at the reporting date.
92 esure Group Annual Report 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 93 19 Financial assets and liabilities continued 19.3 Financial risk management objectives continued c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, either does not have available sufficient financial resources to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
The primary liquidity risk of the Group is the obligation to pay claims to policyholders as they fall due.
Liquidity risk is minimal due to the liquid nature of the Group's investments and the nature of the business, which is such that material liabilities are driven by claims costs, which have a significant lead time from notification to payment.
In order to mitigate liquidity risk, the maturity of the technical liabilities is determined by means of projecting expected cash flows using standard actuarial claims projection techniques.
Asset allocation decisions made by the Investment Committee give due consideration to the maturity and profile of liabilities to ensure that the maturity of assets is equal to or shorter than the maturity of liabilities.
The table below analyses the contractual maturity of the Group's financial assets and salvage and subrogation assets excluding shares and other variable-yield securities and units in unit trusts and financial insurance liabilities plus social security and other taxes which are not financial liabilities.
Salvage and subrogation assets, reinsurers' share of outstanding claims and claims outstanding are presented at their carrying amount and their maturities are based on the expected dates on which the claims will be settled.
Social security and other taxation liabilities are presented at their carrying amount and their maturities are based on the dates at which they are expected to be settled.
An estimate of the cash flows relating to the unearned premium reserve e. g. in respect of claims that will arise in the remaining periods of cover is not presented in the table.
The entire unearned premium liability will be released within one year but the related cash outflows will be less than the booked unearned premium reserve and will be paid over a longer period.
Their inclusion would not alter the assessment that the maturity of assets is equal to or shorter than the maturity of liabilities.
The analysis of non derivative financial liabilities and assets is based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables in relation to debt securities and borrowings include payments of both principal and interest: Less than Between More than 5 Carrying 1 year 1 and 5 years years Total value m m m m m Financial assets and salvage and subrogation assets At 31 December 2015 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 0.1 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 141.9 301.4 96.2 539.5 497.9 Deposits with credit institutions 188.8 188.8 188.8 Cash at bank and in hand 31.9 31.9 31.9 Loans and receivables including salvage 203.1 5.0 208.1 208.1 and subrogation assets Total excluding reinsurers' share 565.8 306.4 96.2 968.4 926.8 of outstanding claims Reinsurers' share of outstanding claims 12.5 71.7 125.1 209.3 209.3 Total 578.3 378.1 221.3 1,177.7 1,136.1 Financial and insurance liabilities At 31 December 2015 Borrowings 8.5 33.8 158.8 201.1 122.6 Derivative financial instruments 3.3 3.3 3.3 Insurance and other payables and social security 32.4 32.4 32.4 and other taxes Financial and tax liabilities 44.2 33.8 158.8 236.8 158.3 Claims outstanding 230.8 244.1 139.3 614.2 614.2 Financial and insurance liabilities 275.0 277.9 298.1 851.0 772.5 esure Group Annual Report 2015 93 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 94 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 19 Financial assets and liabilities continued 19.3 Financial risk management objectives continued c Liquidity risk continued Less than Between More than 5 Carrying 1 year 1 and 5 years years Total value m m m m m Financial assets and salvage and subrogation assets At 31 December 2014 Derivative financial instruments 1.3 1.3 1.3 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 173.2 308.5 98.7 580.4 544.2 Deposits with credit institutions 223.7 223.7 223.7 Cash at bank and in hand 25.1 25.1 25.1 Loans and receivables including salvage and 172.5 3.1 175.6 175.6 subrogation assets Total excluding reinsurers' share 595.8 311.6 98.7 1,006.1 969.9 of outstanding claims Reinsurers' share of outstanding claims 24.2 120.2 50.0 194.4 194.4 Total 620.0 431.8 148.7 1,200.5 1,164.3 Financial and insurance liabilities At 31 December 2014 Borrowings 8.5 33.8 167.2 209.5 122.4 Derivative financial instruments 0.4 0.4 0.4 Insurance and other payables and social security 21.1 21.1 21.1 and other taxes Financial and tax liabilities 30.0 33.8 167.2 231.0 143.9 Claims outstanding 221.5 299.0 76.8 597.3 597.3 Financial and insurance liabilities 251.5 332.8 244.0 828.3 741.2 d Capital management The Group maintains a capital structure consistent with the Groups risk profile and the regulatory and market requirements of its business.
The Groups objectives in managing capital are:  to match the profile of its assets and liabilities, taking account of the risks inherent in the business:  to satisfy the requirements of its policyholders and regulators:  to maintain financial and capital strength to support growth: and  to retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity and access to a range of capital markets.
The Group manages as capital all items that are eligible to be treated as capital for regulatory purposes.
Solvency II From 1 January 2016, the Group is required to calculate its solvency capital requirement SCR and capital resources Own Funds under the Solvency II Directive.
The SCR is the level of capital the Group is required to hold to meet its obligations if a 1 in 200 year event were to occur in the next 12 months.
The Group and Solo entity will adopt the standard formula to calculate their respective capital requirements under Solvency II.
The Board has set a coverage ratio of the SCR, inclusive of a buffer, at both the Group and Solo level.
Refer to the Operating and Financial Review for more detail.
94 esure Group Annual Report 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 95 19 Financial assets and liabilities continued 19.3 Financial risk management objectives continued d Capital management continued Insurance Group Directive The Group has a strong capital position as at 31 December 2015 and has an Insurance Group Directive IGD coverage ratio of 390% 2014: 377%.
As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Statutory solvency capital Ordinary shareholders' equity 341.3 282.2 Regulatory adjustments 0.9 50.2 Final dividend 30.3 48.8 Total tier 1 capital 311.9 283.6 Eligible tier 2 capital 21.4 20.2 Total regulatory capital resources 333.3 303.8 European Insurance Group Directive IGD IGD required capital 85.4 80.6 IGD excess solvency 247.9 223.2 IGD coverage ratio 390% 377% The Notes meet the criteria of a lower tier 2 capital instrument.
Only 21.4m of the subordinated debt qualifies as capital under the IGD as the amount of qualifying lower tier 2 debt is restricted to a maximum of 25% of the Groups required capital.
e Fair value estimation In accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, financial instruments reported at fair value and revalued properties have been categorised into a fair value measurement hierarchy as follows: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 Inputs to Level 1 fair values are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets.
An active market is a market in which transactions for the asset occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices Level 2.
Fair value measurements that are derived from inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, if all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, would result in the instrument being included in Level 2.
The majority of assets classified as Level 2 are over-the-counter corporate bonds, where trades are less frequent owing to the nature of the assets.
Inputs used in pricing the Group's level 2 assets include:  quoted prices for similar i. e. not identical assets in active markets:  quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, the prices are not current, or price quotations vary among market makers, or in which little information is released publicly:  inputs that are derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation: and  for forward foreign exchange contracts, the use of observable forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value.
The Group's policy, should there be a change to the valuation techniques or level of activity in the market in which that asset is traded, is to transfer the asset between levels effective from the beginning of the reporting period.
In line with the requirements of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, the Group classifies all debt securities as Level 2 assets with the exception of Government backed securities which are classified as Level 1 unless they are illiquid.
There have been no changes in respect of the categorisation of debt securities between Levels 1 and 2 during the period 2014: 7.5m of debt securities transferred from Level 2 to Level 1, 2.5m due to regular pricing data being sourced and 5m following reclassification of a financial asset with Government backing.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 95 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 96 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 19 Financial assets and liabilities continued 19.3 Financial risk management objectives continued e Fair value estimation continued Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs Level 3 Unobservable inputs have been used to measure fair value to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset at the measurement date or market information for the inputs to any valuation models.
As such, unobservable inputs reflect assumptions about the inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3.
The Group held Level 3 AFS financial assets of 2.4m as at 31 December 2015 2014: 0.3m, representing an investment in an unquoted equity investment which has been valued using a discounted cash flow valuation model.
Under IFRS 13, land and buildings with a carrying value of 12.9m 2014: 11.6m are classified as Level 3 assets.
The valuers opinion of fair value was primarily derived using comparable recent market transactions on arms length terms.
No sensitivity analysis has been performed due to the nature of the valuation.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities measured at fair value: Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value At 31 December 2015 m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 Equity securities 39.3 39.3 Debt securities 87.4 410.5 497.9 Deposits with credit institutions 188.8 188.8 Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 126.7 599.4 726.1 AFS financial assets: Unquoted equity securities 2.4 2.4 Land and buildings 12.9 12.9 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 3.3 3.3 Total financial liabilities reported at fair value 3.3 3.3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value At 31 December 2014 m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments 1.3 1.3 Equity securities 40.5 40.5 Debt securities 113.6 430.6 544.2 Deposits with credit institutions 223.7 223.7 Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 154.1 655.6 809.7 AFS financial assets: Unquoted equity securities 0.3 0.3 Land and buildings 11.6 11.6 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 0.4 0.4 Total financial liabilities reported at fair value 0.4 0.4 96 esure Group Annual Report 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 97 20 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities 20.1 Insurance risk Insurance risk arises from the inherent uncertainties as to the occurrence, amount and timing of insured events.
These would include significant weather related events and personal injury claims.
The Board is responsible for setting the overall underwriting strategy and defining the risk appetite, with monitoring delegated to the Pricing Committee.
The Group uses excess of loss reinsurance contracts to mitigate insurance risk, essentially by reducing exposure to large individual claims or aggregated losses from single events.
Underwriting and pricing risk The Group underwrites general insurance business for private cars and homes in mainland Britain and the associated additional insurance products.
The book consists of a large number of individual policies spread across the whole geographic area which helps to minimise concentration risk especially in terms of weather-related risks.
As well as pricing, the Group has additional controls in place to segment the market and target those segments it wishes to underwrite.
Further systems and controls are in place to mitigate application fraud risk.
The Group has systems and management information in place to continually monitor underwriting performance and pricing adequacy through the Pricing Committee.
Claims management risk The Group employs a variety of strategies to ensure the correct claims are paid in a timely manner and reserve provisions made on a case by case basis to reflect the Group's future liabilities.
These include:  well resourced and expertly trained staff benefit from image and workflow technology to control paper flow and procedures to enhance efficiency and effectiveness:  the Group manages its own network of motor repairers and dedicated teams offer an extensive range of services directly to 'not at fault' third parties to efficiently control credit hire cost and legal fees:  comprehensive anti-fraud strategies are in place to check both fraudulent claims and new business applications: and  all claims teams operating from the UK and more specialised teams handle large liability and property damage claims in a dedicated technical unit.
Reinsurance The Group purchases reinsurance as a risk transfer mechanism to mitigate risks that are outside the Group's appetite for individual claim or event exposure and to reduce the volatility caused by large individual and accumulation losses.
By doing so the Group protects its capital and the underwriting result of each line of business.
Currently the Group has in place non-proportional excess of loss reinsurance programmes for its Motor and Home underwriting activities.
The purpose of these programmes is to provide cover for both individual large losses, for Motor and Home, and accumulation losses arising from natural and other catastrophe events for Home.
Motor reinsurance treaties are in place covering all years in which the Group has underwritten Motor policies.
The Group's reinsurance programmes are reviewed on an annual basis and capital modelling is used to identify the most appropriate structure and risk retention profile, taking into account the Group's business objective of minimising volatility and the prevailing cost and availability of reinsurance in the market.
Counterparty credit risk is a key consideration when the Group enters into reinsurance treaties.
See note 19.3 b for more detail.
Reserving risk Reserving risk is defined as the uncertainty regarding either the current level of reserves or the payment distribution over their lifetime.
The Group analyses and projects historical claims development data and uses a number of actuarial techniques to both test and forecast claims provisions.
In addition, the Group also provides data to external actuaries who assess the adequacy of the Group's claims provisions.
Apart from historical analyses the Group also takes into account changes in risk profile and underwriting policy conditions, changes in legislation or regulation and changes in other external factors.
The ultimate costs and expenses of the claims for which these reserves are held are subject to a number of material uncertainties.
As time passes between the reporting of a claim and the final settlement of the claim, circumstances can change that may require established reserves to be adjusted either upwards or downwards.
Factors such as changes in the legal environment, results of litigation, propensity of personal injury claims, changes in medical and care costs, and costs of vehicle and home repairs can all substantially impact overall costs and expenses of claims, and cause a material divergence from the bases and assumptions on which the reserves were calculated.
Claims subject to periodic payment orders PPOs are an area of uncertainty relating to the claims provision at 31 December 2015.
For known PPOs and claims which have been identified as potential PPO awards, cash flow projections are carried out in order to estimate an ultimate cost on a gross and net of reinsurance basis.
The cash flow projections are undertaken on a discounted basis.
The total net claims provision recognised for PPOs and potential PPOs in the consolidated statement of financial position represents less than 5% of net claims outstanding at 31 December 2015.
In the context of the Group's approach to the mitigation and management of underwriting risk, its reinsurance programme including its approach to mitigating counterparty credit risk and the Group's prudent approach to reserving for potential PPOs, the risk of an adverse development of the Group's reserves for PPO claims is not considered to be significant.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 97 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 98 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 20 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued 20.1 Insurance risk continued Reserving risk continued In addition, the Ministry of Justice has been reviewing the discount rate used in the calculation of damage awards in bodily injury and fatal claims for some time.
At the date these financial statements were approved, the discount rate used in these calculations remained at 2.5% and individual case reserves have been established by applying this discount rate.
In the context of the Group's reinsurance programme and its approach to the mitigation of reinsurance counterparty credit risk, a reduction in the discount rate is unlikely to result in a material deterioration of the Group's financial performance.
Were an adjustment to be made to total reserves to reflect an assumed reduction of one percentage point, the impact of this allowance would be to increase the net claims provision recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position by less than 2.0m at 31 December 2015.
The Group's policy is to hold sufficient provisions, including those to cover claims which have been incurred but not reported IBNR to meet all liabilities as they fall due.
Apart from that part of the provisions relating to PPOs, claims provisions are not discounted.
The Directors remain satisfied that the outstanding claims reserves included in these financial statements provide an appropriate margin over projected ultimate claims costs.
20.2 Analysis of recognised amounts As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Gross - Claims outstanding before deduction of salvage and subrogation recoveries and claims handling expenses 614.2 597.3 - Unearned premiums 272.4 254.4 Total insurance liabilities, gross 886.6 851.7 Recoverable from reinsurers - Claims outstanding 209.3 194.4 - Unearned premiums 15.9 14.9 Total reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 225.2 209.3 - Claims outstanding before deduction of salvage and subrogation recoveries and claims handling expenses 404.9 402.9 - Unearned premiums 256.5 239.5 Total insurance liabilities, net 661.4 642.4 Due within one year gross 503.3 476.0 Due in more than one year gross 383.3 375.7 As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Reinsurance assets Reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 225.2 209.3 Total assets arising from reinsurance contracts 225.2 209.3 Expected to be recovered within one year 28.4 39.2 Expected to be recovered in more than one year 196.8 170.1 Amounts due from reinsurers in respect of claims already paid by the Group on the contracts that are reinsured are included in insurance and other receivables note 21.
No reinsurance assets have been impaired.
Claims outstanding and claims handling expenses are shown before deducting amounts in respect of salvage and subrogation.
As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Reinsurance assets Net claims outstanding before deduction of salvage and subrogation recoveries and claims handling 404.9 402.9 Salvage and subrogation recoveries 34.0 22.7 Net claims outstanding and claims handling expenses 370.9 380.2 esure Group Annual Report 2015 98 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 99 20 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued 20.3 Sensitivity of recognised amounts to changes in assumptions The following table shows the impact of a 1% variation in the loss ratio on profit or loss and shareholders' equity after tax as at 31 December 2015: 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Accident year Net loss ratio 70% 67% 85% 95% 79% 62% 68% 71% 80% 85% Impact of 1% variation m 2.1 2.6 3.4 4.1 3.6 3.7 3.8 3.9 3.9 4.0 The impact is stated net of reinsurance and tax at the current rate.
20.4 Claims development tables a Insurance claims gross ultimate claims m The development of insurance liabilities provides a measure of the Group's ability to estimate the ultimate value of claims.
Tables a and b illustrate how the Group's estimate of total claims incurred for each accident year has developed over the past 10 years, including a reconciliation to the claims liability reported in the consolidated balance sheet.
esure Group plc acquired esure Holdings Limited on 11 February 2010.
The estimated claims disclosed in the tables prior to the date of acquisition are those of esure Holdings Limited.
Table c expresses the development of net incurred claims by reference to the loss ratio for each accident year over the past 10 years.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total Accident year Ultimate gross earned premium 276.7 335.9 447.1 544.3 479.1 488.7 511.7 526.1 528.7 532.4 4,670.7 Estimate of ultimate gross claims costs: At end of reporting year 225.8 289.2 399.1 540.2 475.3 392.7 442.0 439.5 456.1 457.2 One year later 220.5 268.8 398.2 535.3 416.8 355.7 399.8 386.9 442.4 Two years later 219.7 242.0 407.5 536.6 399.0 331.5 369.2374.6 Three years later 207.9 233.0 399.9 549.8 380.6 309.7 355.8 Four years later 205.5 232.9 382.9 534.0 371.8 304.9 Five years later 203.4 229.4 381.3 534.1 369.9 Six years later 215.4 228.0 379.7 523.8 Seven years later 209.0 227.8 372.5 Eight years later 208.5226.6 Nine years later 206.7 Current estimate of cumulative claims 206.7 226.6 372.5 523.8 369.9 304.9 355.8 374.6 442.4 457.2 3,634.4 Cumulative payments to date 191.0 220.0 364.0 501.7 365.6 277.5 310.1 304.0 315.3 232.6 3,081.8 Liability recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position 552.6 Reserve in respect of prior periods 15.0 Provision for claims handling costs 12.6 Salvage and subrogation 34.0 Total reserve included in the consolidated statement of financial position 614.2 esure Group Annual Report 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2015 99 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 100 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 20 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued 20.4 Claims development tables continued b Insurance claims net ultimate claims m Accident year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total Ultimate gross earned premium 263.9 321.4 424.1 514.9 452.1 459.7 480.2 489.2 490.8 495.6 4,391.9 Estimate of ultimate gross claims costs: At end of reporting year 208.5 270.9 374.5 510.3 446.8 360.1 401.0 404.7 423.8 423.1 One year later 204.3 254.9 373.8 495.0 392.5 317.3 356.7 357.9 394.8 Two years later 203.1 227.0 372.0 495.0 374.6 296.4 331.9 345.9 Three years later 193.7 220.0 371.7 495.1 363.9 285.0 326.3 Four years later 188.2 223.5 367.6 494.5 360.9 284.5 Five years later 187.1 219.8 366.3 492.7 358.6 Six years later 187.0 218.3 364.7 489.5 Seven years later 184.7 217.5 362.1 Eight years later 184.8216.6 Nine years later 184.3 Current estimate of cumulative claims 184.3 216.6 362.1 489.5 358.6 284.5 326.3 345.9 394.8 423.1 3,385.7 Cumulative payments to date 183.1 213.7 359.7 484.6 355.8 273.7 304.9 304.0 315.3 232.6 3,027.4 Liability recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position 358.3 Reserve in respect of prior periods 0.0 Provision for claims handling costs 12.6 Salvage and subrogation 34.0 Total reserve included in the consolidated statement of financial position 404.9 c Insurance claims net loss ratio development 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Accident year Estimate of ultimate Loss ratio: At end of reporting year 79% 84% 88% 99% 99% 78% 84% 83% 86% 85% One year later 77% 79% 88% 96% 87% 69% 74% 73% 80% Two years later 77% 71% 88% 96% 83% 65% 69% 71% Three years later 73% 69% 88% 96% 81% 62% 68% Four years later 71% 70% 87% 96% 80% 62% Five years later 71% 68% 86% 96% 79% Six years later 71% 68% 86% 95% Seven years later 70% 68% 85% Eight years later 70% 67% Nine years later 70% 100 esure Group Annual Report 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 101 20 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued 20.5 Movements in insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets a Claims reported in the financial statements and claims handling expenses m The movements in claims reported, including claims handling expenses, both gross and net of reinsurance RI, are shown below: 2015 2014 Gross RI Net Gross RI Net At 1 January 562.7 194.4 368.3 625.3 208.5 416.8 Cash paid for claims settled in year 383.8 7.4 376.4 402.4 20.1 382.3 Change arising from: Current year claims 457.2 34.1 423.1 456.1 32.3 423.8 Prior year claims 68.5 11.8 56.7 116.3 26.3 90.0 Total at end of year 567.6 209.3 358.3 562.7 194.4 368.3 Provision for claims handling costs 12.6 12.6 11.9 11.9 Salvage and subrogation 34.0 34.0 22.7 22.7 Total reserve per balance sheet 614.2 209.3 404.9 597.3 194.4 402.9 Claims incurred and claims handling expenses as disclosed in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income comprise: Year ended 31 Dec 2015 Year ended 31 Dec 2014 Gross RI Net Gross RI Net Claims incurred 388.8 22.3 366.5 339.9 6.0 333.9 Claims handling expenses 21.1 21.1 18.5 18.5 Claims incurred and claims handling expenses 409.9 22.3 387.6 358.4 6.0 352.4 During 2015, the Group continued to experience favourable development of prior accident year reserves 56.7m reduction in prior year claims reserves in the year ended 31 December 2015, resulting in a reduction in both gross claims outstanding and claims outstanding recoverable from reinsurers, but to a lesser extent than during the year ended 31 December 2014 90.0m reduction in prior year claims reserves in the year ended 31 December 2014. b Provisions for unearned premiums m The movements for the year, both gross and net of reinsurance, are summarised below: 2015 2014 Gross RI Net Gross RI Net Unearned premium provision At beginning of the year 254.4 14.9 239.5 265.3 17.5 247.8 Premiums written in the year 550.3 37.8 512.6 517.8 35.3 482.5 Premiums earned in the year 532.4 36.8 495.6 528.7 37.9 490.8 At end of year 272.4 15.9 256.5 254.4 14.9 239.5 esure Group Annual Report 2015 101 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 102 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 21 Insurance and other receivables As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Insurance receivables 154.2 147.6 Prepayments and accrued income 8.6 4.5 Other debtors 19.9 5.3 Salvage and subrogation assets 34.0 22.7 Total insurance and other receivables 216.7 180.1 Insurance receivables and other debtors are financial assets classified as loans and receivables.
For more details see note 19, which includes the ageing of these loans and receivables.
The Directors believe the carrying value of these financial assets approximates their fair value.
All insurance receivables and other receivables are expected to be recovered within one year, aside from 5.0m of salvage and subrogation assets which are expected to be recovered in more than one year 2014: 3.1m.
22 Deferred acquisition costs Movement in the deferred acquisition costs asset is as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Deferred acquisition costs m m At 1 January 28.0 28.1 Movement during the period 2.7 0.1 At 31 December 25.3 28.0 Deferred acquisition costs are expected to be recovered within one year.
23 Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Cash at bank and in hand 31.9 25.1 Total 31.9 25.1 24 Insurance and other payables As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Insurance payables 15.2 10.8 Accrued expenses 27.0 31.9 Social security and other taxes 17.1 10.3 Deferred income 12.9 11.9 Total insurance and other payables 72.2 64.9 Insurance and other payables include financial liabilities of 15.2m 2014: 10.8m classified as other financial liabilities.
Insurance payables and accrued expenses principally comprise amounts outstanding for suppliers and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for invoiced trade purchases is 15.9 days 2014: 12.3 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of insurance and other payables approximates their fair value.
All insurance and other payables are expected to be settled within one year aside from Government grants.
Included within deferred income is 0.4m in Government grants 2014: 0.3m.
This is recognised as income over the period necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Scottish Executive Grants have been received by the Group based on two factors: expenditure on fixed assets and the creation of new jobs.
In order for the Group to avoid repayment of the grants received, the new jobs created in order to meet the grant conditions must remain in existence for a period of at least five years.
102 esure Group Annual Report 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 103 25 Deferred tax assets and liabilities The following are the deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior periods.
The analysis of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities is as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Deferred tax assets 1.0 0.4 Deferred tax liabilities 12.6 3.7 Net deferred tax liabilities 11.6 3.3 The net movement on the deferred tax account is as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m At 1 January 3.3 0.3 Income statement credit expense note 14 1.8 3.0 Recognised on acquisition of Gocompare note 12 10.2 Effect of change in tax rate 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.1 0.0 At 31 December 11.6 3.3 The deferred tax rate used is 20.0% 2014: 20.0%.
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Deferred Claims acquisition handling Share-based costs reserve payments Total m m m m Deferred tax assets Brought forward as at 1 January 2014 2.7 0.1 0.3 3.1 Charged to the income statement 2.6 0.1 2.7 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.0 0.0 At 31 December 2014 0.1 0.3 0.4 Brought forward as at 1 January 2015 0.1 0.0 0.3 0.4 Charged to the income statement 0.1 0.4 0.5 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2015 0.2 0.8 1.0 There is an unrecognised deferred tax asset on land and buildings of 2.3m at 31 December 2015 for which there is insufficient likelihood that future taxable gains will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Claims Accelerated Intangible equalisation capital assets reserve Total allowances m m m Deferred tax liabilities Brought forward as at 1 January 2014 0.7 2.5 1.6 3.4 Charged credited to the income statement 0.6 0.7 0.4 0.3 At 31 December 2014 0.1 1.8 2.0 3.7 Brought forward as at 1 January 2015 0.1 1.8 2.0 3.7 Arising on acquisition of Gocompare note 12 10.2 10.2 Charged credited to the income statement 0.7 2.5 0.5 1.3 At 31 December 2015 0.6 9.5 2.5 12.6 esure Group Annual Report 2015 103 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 104 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 26 Share capital and other reserves Capital Ordinary Share redemption Other Shares premium reserve reserves Total Financial assets and salvage and subrogation assets m m m m m At 1 January 2014 0.3 44.0 44.9 89.2 Issue of share capital 0.0 0.0 0.0 Fair value movements on AFS assets 0.0 0.0 As at 31 December 2014 0.3 44.0 44.9 0.0 89.2 Issue of share capital 0.0 0.0 0.0 Fair value movements on AFS assets 1.0 1.0 As at 31 December 2015 0.3 44.0 44.9 1.0 90.2 During the year ended 31 December 2015, 10,084 Ordinary Shares of 1 12 pence were issued by the Group for 0.0m 31 December 2014: 1,417 Ordinary Shares of 1 12 pence were issued by the Group for 0.0m.
The authorised, allotted, called up and fully paid share capital of esure Group plc as at 31 December 2015 was 416,852,881 Ordinary Shares of 1 12 pence each 31 December 2014: 416,842,797 Ordinary Shares of 1 12 pence each.
The shares have full voting and dividend rights.
No shares are held in Treasury.
The esure Employee Benefit Trust held 1,346,695 Ordinary Shares as at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: 1,396,193 and the Trustees waived their rights to dividend payments.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, 1.0m was credited to other comprehensive income in respect of fair value movements on an AFS financial asset 31 December 2014: 0.0m.
The other reserves as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 relate to the available-for-sale reserve in respect of this financial asset.
The capital redemption reserve was created during the year ended 31 December 2013 for a 44.9m share repurchase.
27 Share-based payments The Group has a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
An award will not be granted under the executive plans if it would cause the number of shares allocated in the 10 calendar year period following flotation to exceed 5% of the Ordinary Share capital in issue at that time.
Similarly, an award will not be granted under the employee plans if it would cause the number of shares allocated in the 10 calendar year period following flotation to exceed 10% of the Ordinary Share capital in issue at that time.
Holders of these awards other than the three-year and five-year SAYE schemes will receive dividend equivalents in respect of the dividends that would have been paid between grant date and vesting date for Ordinary Shares which vest under their awards, calculated on a basis and paid in a manner to be determined by the Remuneration Committee before the awards vest.
Details of the share-based compensation plans and their financial effect are set out below.
a Performance Share Plan The Performance Share Plan PSP is a discretionary share plan for the Group's Executive and Senior Management.
Awards have been made under the PSP as follows: Year ended 31 Year ended 31 Year ended 31 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Darren Ogden 275,275 189,594 160,344 Stuart Vann 321,155 338,926 286,637 Senior Management 1,440,107 1,211,351 263,101 Under the scheme, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon continued employment by the Group and achieving predefined performance conditions associated with the Group's earnings per share EPS and total shareholder return TSR.
For the 2013, 2014 and 2015 Directors' schemes, two-thirds of each award are based on EPS performance and one-third on TSR performance with the two measures applying independently to different parts of each award.
For the 2015 Senior Management scheme, 50% of the awards are subject to the EPS and TSR performance conditions i. e. one-third and one-sixth respectively and 50% of the awards are subject only to continued employment until vesting.
EPS performance The EPS performance measure involves a comparison of the EPS figure for the year ended prior to the granting of the award, and the EPS figure reported in the Group's audited consolidated financial statements for the year ending three years later e. g. for the awards granted in the year ended 31 December 2015, a comparison of the EPS reported for the year ended 31 December 2014 and the EPS figure reported in the Group's audited consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2017.
For the portion of the 2015 Executive Senior Management PSP awards subject to the EPS measure: i 0 25% will vest if EPS for the year ending 31 December 2017 exceeds the EPS for the year ended 31 December 2014 calculated on the basis described above by 10%: ii 25 50% will vest if EPS for the year ending 31 December 2017 exceeds the EPS for the year ended 31 December 2014 calculated on the basis described above by 15%: iii 100% will vest if EPS for the year ending 31 December 2017 exceeds the underlying EPS for the year ended 31 December 2014 calculated on the basis described above by 39%: and iv if EPS for the year ending 2017 falls between targets, vesting will occur on a straight-line basis.
Refer to the Group's 2014 and 2013 Annual Reports for the performance conditions associated with the 2014 and 2013 awards.
The EPS performance conditions associated with the 2013 scheme have not been met.
104 esure Group Annual Report 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 105 27 Share-based payments continued a Performance Share Plan continued TSR performance TSR performance is measured, in the case of the 2014 2015 awards, by comparing the Group's TSR for the three-year period from 31 December 2013 31 December 2014 to the TSR of the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts and the Company over the same period.
For the 2013 awards, the comparison was made from the date of the Group's Admission to the London Stock Exchange to 31 December 2015 and the performance condition has not been met.
For the portion of the PSP awards subject to the TSR measure: i 25% will vest if the Group achieves median TSR performance against this comparator group: ii 100% will vest if the Group's TSR performance is at the upper quartile or above: and iii if TSR performance is between the median and the upper quartile, vesting will occur on a straight-line basis.
In addition, the PSP awards are subject to an additional term, which will allow the Remuneration Committee to reduce the level of vesting of each award if it considers that the vesting level is not appropriate having regard to the growth in profitability over the performance period.
The PSP awards will vest at the later of three-year service and satisfaction of the performance conditions as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The following table provides summarised information regarding all PSP awards: 2015 PSP awards 2014 PSP awards 2013 PSP awards 25 March 2015 date 16 April 2014 date Grant dates employee joined employee joined 27 March 2013 Number granted 2,036,537 1,739,871 710,082 Number outstanding at 1 January 2015 Nil 1,722.424 710,082 Forfeited lapsed during the year 61,655 179,332 710,082 Vested during the period 841 for good leavers 33,037 for good leavers Nil at Group's discretion at Group's discretion Number outstanding at 31 December 2015 1,974,041 1,510,055 Nil Contractual life 3 years 3 years 3 years Valuation of PSP awards As part of the awards are subject to a share-price related TSR performance condition, the fair value of these awards was estimated using a Stochastic Monte-Carlo model.
The remaining awards are not subject to a share-price related performance condition EPS and the fair value of the awards was estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
The inputs into the models were: 2015 PSP awards 2014 PSP awards 2013 PSP awards Cost Share price at grant 2.20 2.53 2.96 Exercise price nil nil nil Volatility % p. a.
19.0% 21.0% 23.0% Dividend yield % p. a. nil nil nil Risk-free rate % 0.51% 1.05% 0.27% Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years The inputs were adjusted as appropriate for those awards granted to employees later upon joining the Group.
The total estimated fair value of the 2015 PSP options at the dates of grant was 3.8m 2014 PSP awards: 3.6m: 2013 PSP awards: 1.8m.
2014 senior management awards in addition to the PSP During the year ended 31 December 2014, in addition to the PSP awards disclosed above, a new senior management hire was granted 171,621 shares without performance conditions with an estimated fair value of 2.22 at the date of grant.
46% of these awards vested on 29 May 2015 when the share price was 2.59, 37% will vest on 31 May 2016 and the remainder will vest on 31 May 2017 dependent upon continued employment by the Group.
The Remuneration Committee made the awards to compensate for remuneration that was forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
b Free share awards Upon listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Group offered employees a free share award granting shares to each eligible employee free of charge.
These awards, comprised of Long Service awards and One-off awards, have been will be satisfied using shares held by the Group's Employee Benefit Trust.
Long Service awards These awards were made to eligible employees who did not already own shares in the Group and had been employed by the Group for more than two years at the point of the Group's Admission to the London Stock Exchange.
The award levels were determined by length of service.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 105 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 106 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 27 Share-based payments continued b Free share awards continued Long Service awards continued The details of the award are set out below: Type of arrangement Free share award Date of grant 27 March 2013 Number granted 1,381,391 Number outstanding at 1 January 2015 1,222,907 Forfeited lapsed during the year 46,938 Vested during the period 29,563 for good leavers at Group's discretion Number outstanding at 31 December 2015 1,146,406 Contractual life 3 years Vesting conditions Continuing employment or leavers under certain circumstances The awards outstanding at 31 December 2014 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the employee remains in employment with the Group for three years and shall not be subject to clawback.
The estimated fair value of the Long Service awards at grant date was 4.1m.
The estimated fair value of each award was based upon the share price of Ordinary Shares at grant date of 2.96.
One-off awards 246,845 awards were made to a number of senior employees of the Group.
The One-off awards vested and were exercised during the year ended 31 December 2014.
The share price at the date of exercise was 2.75. c Save As You Earn SAYE schemes The Group has a three-year SAYE scheme and a five-year SAYE scheme.
Under the 2015 scheme, esure employees are offered the opportunity to save between 5 and 500 each month in order to purchase shares in either three or five-years time at an exercise price at a 20% discount on the share price at the date before invitations were issued to participate.
The details of these awards are set out below: 2015 SAYE scheme 2014 SAYE scheme Date of grant 9 September 2015 3 September 2014 Number outstanding Nil 512,986 shares under the three-year scheme at 1 January 2015 67,144 shares under the five-year scheme 527,607 shares under three-year scheme Number initially granted 706,966 shares under three-year scheme 101,823 shares under the five-year scheme 67,144 shares under the five-year scheme Forfeited lapsed 19,192 under the three-year scheme 143,718 under the three-year scheme during the year 36,268 under the five-year scheme nil under the five-year scheme Number outstanding 687,774 shares under the three-year scheme 383,889 shares under the three-year scheme at 31 December 2015 101,823 shares under the five-year scheme 30,876 shares under the five-year scheme Date of grant 9 September 2015 3 September 2014 Number outstanding Nil 512,986 shares under the three-year scheme at 1 January 2015 67,144 shares under the five-year scheme Number initially granted 706,966 shares under three-year scheme 527,607 shares under three-year scheme 101,823 shares under the five-year scheme 67,144 shares under the five-year scheme Forfeited lapsed 19,192 under the three-year scheme 143,718 under the three-year scheme during the year nil under the five-year scheme 36,268 under the five-year scheme 2013 SAYE scheme Date of grant 6 September 2013 Number outstanding 905,726 shares under the three-year scheme at 1 January 2015 169,767 shares under the five-year scheme Number initially granted 1,083,748 shares under the three-year scheme 176,260 shares under the five-year scheme Forfeited lapsed during 144,149 under the three-year scheme the year 15,460 under the five-year scheme Number outstanding 761,577 shares under the three-year scheme at 31 December 2015 154,307 shares under the five-year scheme Date of grant 6 September 2013 Number outstanding 905,726 shares under the three-year scheme at 1 January 2015 169,767 shares under the five-year scheme Number initially granted 1,083,748 shares under the three-year scheme 176,260 shares under the five-year scheme esure Group Annual 106 Report esure 2015 Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 107 27 Share-based payments continued c Save As You Earn SAYE schemes continued Valuation of SAYE awards The fair values of the awards were estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
The inputs into the models used to value the 2015 awards were: Scheme 3-year SAYE 5-year SAYE Share price at grant 2.44 2.44 Exercise price 1.91 1.91 Volatility % p. a.
6.04% 6.04% Risk-free rate % 0.95% 1.33% Expected life years 3.4 5.4 The estimated fair value of the 2015 SAYE options at the date of grant was 0.3m 2014: 0.3m, 2013: 0.4m.
Refer to the Group's 2014 and 2013 Annual Reports for the inputs to the models associated with the 2014 and 2013 awards.
d Financial effect of share-based payments made The total expense recognised for the year arising from the share-based payments above was 2.2m 2014: 2.0m.
All share-based payment transactions were accounted for as equity-settled.
28 Commitments a Pension capital commitments The Group contributes to a Group Personal Pension defined contribution scheme available to all staff of which 1,548 employees participated in the scheme at 31 December 2015 2014: 1,377.
The pension cost charge for the period represents contributions payable by the Group to the scheme and amounted to 2.4m 2014: 2.2m.
There were no outstanding or prepaid contributions at either the beginning or end of the financial year.
b Capital commitments The Group has entered into the following contracts for assets which have not been provided for at the balance sheet date: As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Fixed asset acquisitions contracted for but not provided in these consolidated financial statements 0.4 0.1 c Operating lease commitments where the Group is a lessee The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Not later than 1 year 3.9 3.5 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 13.6 13.2 Later than 5 years 23.2 24.0 Total minimum lease payments payable 40.7 40.7 d Operating lease commitments where the Group is a lessor The future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Not later than 1 year 0.2 0.1 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 0.4 0.5 Later than 5 years - - Total minimum lease payments receivable 0.6 0.6 esure Group Annual Report esure Group Annual 2015 Report 107 2015 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 108 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 29 Group subsidiary companies esure Group plc has the following principal subsidiaries as at 31 December 2015: Country of Class of Held directly incorporation shares held Principal activity or indirectly Percentage held esure Insurance Limited England and Wales Ordinary General insurance Indirect 100% esure Services Limited England and Wales Ordinary Administration and Indirect 100% management esure Holdings Limited England and Wales Ordinary Holding company Indirect 100% esure Property Limited England and Wales Ordinary Property investment Indirect 100% esure Finance Limited England and Wales Ordinary Holding company Direct 100% esure Property Management Limited England and Wales Ordinary Nontrading Indirect 100% esure S. L. Spain Ordinary Nontrading Indirect 100% esure broker limited England and Wales Ordinary Insurance intermediary Indirect 100% Gocompare.
com Holdings Limited England and Wales Ordinary Holding company Indirect 100% Gocompare.
com Limited England and Wales Ordinary Price comparison Indirect 100% services Gocompare Limited England and Wales Ordinary Nontrading Indirect 100% Gio Compario Limited England and Wales Ordinary Nontrading Indirect 100% All of the subsidiaries above are included in the consolidation of esure Group plc.
esure Property Management Limited and esure S. L. are dormant and are exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 to prepare annual financial statements.
30 Related party transactions The following transactions took place with related parties during the year: a Commissions and fees receivable for introducing insurance business: Prior to the acquisition of Gocompare on 31 March 2015 after which Gocompare was part of the Group, the Group received commissions and fees for customer introduction services provided to Gocompare for introducing insurance business.
The value of transactions during the period to 31 March 2015 was 0.0m year ended 31 December 2014: 0.0m.
The amount receivable as at 31 March 2015 was 0.0m as at 31 December 2014: nil.
These transactions arose in the normal course of business through fixed fees, and were based on arm's length arrangements.
b Commissions and fees payable for introducing insurance business: Prior to the acquisition of Gocompare on 31 March 2015 after which Gocompare was part of the Group, the Group paid commissions and fees for customer introduction services provided by Gocompare for introducing insurance business.
The value of transactions during the period to 31 March 2015 was 1.6m year ended 31 December 2014: 4.8m.
The amount payable as at 31 March 2015 was 0.5m as at 31 December 2014: 0.3m.
These transactions arose in the normal course of obtaining insurance business through brokerages, and were based on arm's length arrangements.
c Transactions with shareholders The following transactions took place with shareholders and entities under common control:  One of the Directors has a beneficial part ownership interest in a restaurant which has been used by the Group for corporate events and entertaining purposes.
 One of the Directors has a beneficial part ownership interest in a company which leased office space from the Group.
The company also charged the Group for travel expenses incurred by employees of the Group.
As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 m m Value of income expense for the year: 0.1 0.2 Lease of office space net of travel expenses charged 0.1 0.1 Restaurants 0.0 0.1 Total income for the year 0.1 0.2 Amount receivable payable at the year end: Lease of office space net of travel expenses charged 0.1 0.1 Restaurants 0.0 Total amount receivable at the year end 0.1 0.1 d Compensation of key management personnel The key management personnel are considered to be the Directors.
Please refer to note 9 for details of the Directors' remuneration, excluding PSP share awards.
See note 27 for more detail on these awards.
Two of the Directors are members of the 2015 three-year SAYE scheme.
One saves 500 a month under the scheme and the other 250 a month.
In addition, one of the Directors is also a member of the 2013 three-year SAYE scheme and saves 250 a month under the scheme.
108 esure Group Annual Report 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2015
