GOVERNANCE Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors Report, and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare a Corporate Governance Statement and a Directors financial statements for each financial period.
Under that law Remuneration Report that comply with that law and those they have elected to prepare the Financial Statements in regulations.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors have delegated responsibility for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information The Financial Statements are required by law to give a true and includedon the Companys pages of the Managers website fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit www.
Visitors to the website or loss for the period.
need to be aware that legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of the Financial Statements may In preparing these Financial Statements the Directors are differ from legislation in their jurisdictions.
required to: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge the Financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial consistently: Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and profit or loss of the Company: and the Strategic Report and prudent: Directors Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company state whether applicable IFRS have been followed, subject to together with a description of the principal risks and any material departures disclosed and explained in the uncertainties it faces.
We confirm that we consider the Annual Financial Statements: Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Company will performance, business model and strategy.
continue in business: and Approved by the Board on 11 June 2015 and signed on its confirm that the Financial Statements are fair, balanced and behalf.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply John Owen with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for Chairman safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 34 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
