INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Alternative Investment Fund Managers Disclosure As explained in the Chairmans Statement, in compliance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, the Board has appointed FIL Investment Services UK Limited FISL a Fidelity group company as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
FISL has delegated the investment management other than in unlisted securities to FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited.
The investment management of the unlisted securities and the company secretarial function has been delegated to FIL Investments International.
Details of the Management Agreements dated 17 July 2014 are included in the Directors' Report on page 20.
The table below discloses information required by the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013.
Function AIFM Role and Responsibility AIFMD Disclosure Investment The AIFM provides portfolio management of assets and Details of the Companys investment investment advice in relation to the assets of the Company.
objective, strategy and investment policy, management It has delegated this function to FIL Investment Management including limits, are on pages 8 and 9.
Hong Kong Limited other than the unlisted securities and for unlisted securities to FIL Investments International.
The Board remains responsible for setting the investment strategy, investment policy and investment guidelines and theAIFM operates within these guidelines.
Risk management In its capacity as AIFM, FIL Investment Services UK Limited The AIFM has an ongoing process for hasaresponsibility for risk management for the Company identifying, evaluating and managing whichis in addition to the Boards corporate governance theprincipal risks faced by the Company responsibility for risk management.
andthis is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Board remains responsible for The Company has a Risk Management Process Document the Companys system of internal control whichisagreed with the Board and demonstrates that risk and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Further management is separated functionally and hierarchically from details can be found in the Strategic Report operating units and demonstrates independence safeguards.
on pages 10 and 11 and in Note 18 to the TheManager maintains adequate risk management systems Financial Statements on pages 53 to 60. inorder to identify, measure and monitor all risks at least annuallyunder AIFMD.
The Manager is responsible for the implementation of various risk activities such as risk systems, riskprofile, risk limits and testing.
The Board, as part of UK corporate governance, remain responsible for the identification of significant risks and fortheongoing review of the Companys risk management andinternal control processes.
Valuation of The Directive requires the disclosure of the percentage of Not Applicable.
theAIFsassets which are subject to special arrangements illiquid assets arisingfrom their illiquid nature.
Further, any new arrangements for managing the liquidity of the Company must be disclosed.
Leverage The Company uses leverage to increase its exposure primarily The maximum leverage limits are 1.80 for tothe stockmarkets of China or Hong Kong and currently the Gross Method of calculating leverage holdslong Contracts For Difference to achieve this.
The AIFM and 1.50 for the Commitment Method.
hasset maximum levels of leverage that are reasonable.
There have been no changes to the Ithasimplemented systems to calculate and monitor maximum level of leverage that the complianceagainst these limits and has ensured that the Company may employ during the year.
limitshave been complied with at all times.
At 31 March 2015, actual leverage was A definition of leverage is included in the Glossary of Terms 1.26for the Gross Method and 1.27 for the onpage 66.
Liquidity The AIFM, in consultation with the Board, maintains a liquidity No new arrangements for managing the management policy which is considered at least annually.
liquidity of the Company have been management made.
Further details can be found in Note18 on page 56.
Remuneration The AIFM operates under the terms of Fidelitys Global The FCAs General Guidance on the ofthe AIFM Remuneration Policy Statement.
This ensures that the AIFM AIFMRemuneration Code has established complies with the requirements of the FCAs Remuneration that the first full performance year will Code SYSC19A : the AIFM Remuneration Code SYSC19B notcommence until 1 January 2015. andthe BIPRU Remuneration Code SYSC19C.
Accordingly, there is no data to disclose inrespect of remuneration of the AIFM forthis year.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 68 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Investing in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC The information on the following pages is provided by Fidelity and should not be seen as a recommendation by the Board of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC.
Fidelity offers a range of options, so that you can invest in the way youcan claim it back from us.
Please note this offer does not that is best for you.
As Fidelity China Special Situations PLC is a apply tothe share dealing service.
company listed on the London Stock Exchange you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already used your INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan offers You may invest in the Companys shares through the Fidelity ISA you a low cost and convenient way to put money into Fidelity Individual Savings Account.
A Fidelity ISA can be an excellent China Special Situations PLC.
The minimum investment is 1,000 as way to get more from your investment, because you will not have a lump sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month in a regular savings to pay income or capital gains tax on your returns.
Holding shares within the Share Plan allows you to reinvest your dividends and make further investments without having to With effect from 1 July 2014, ISAs were reformed into a simpler pay brokerage fees.
You will also be able to set up a monthly product, the New ISA NISA, with equal limits for cash, and savings plan and receive statements and valuations twice a year.
The overall subscription limit is 15,000.
The minimum investment per fund in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 as a Investing for children the Share Plan is a flexible and lump sum, 250 as a top-up, or 50 a month per company in a inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
All you have to regular savings plan.
dois enter the initials or name of the child in the Designation Box on the Share Plan application form.
Charges Initial Charges for investments in the Fidelity ISA mayvary.
For those investing personally directly with Fidelity, Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or holding there will be no initial charge.
Those investing through an shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan other intermediary will pay a basic initial charge of 0.5% plus any thanstamp duty of 0.5%, which is currently payable on all share initialfee or commission where applicable agreed with their purchases.
However, if you invest through a Financial Adviser, intermediary.
Fidelity pays stamp duty from the initial charge.
there may be additional fees of up to 3% agreed with your There are no other charges for the Fidelity ISA, but the Company advisor.
pays an annual management charge to Fidelity of 1.0% plus a performance related fee where applicable, as set out in the BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES INFORMATION RIGHTS Annual Report.
Registered shareholders of fully listed companies are able to nominate the underlying beneficial owners of their shares to Investing for children Junior ISAs JISA are similar to adult receive information rights.
You should contact your registered ISAs but with a few important differences.
shareholder direct to request to receive your information rights.
Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have been Junior ISAs are available to UK residents under the age of 18 nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive whodo not have a child trust fund, if opened by a parent or information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 guardian who is older than 18. are required to direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares rather than to the Companys Registrars, Capita Money cannot be withdrawn from the product until the child turns Asset Services, or to the Company direct.
18, when the policy will automatically become an adult ISA and the child will be able to access the funds subject to proof of INVESTING ONLINE identity.
Whilst you cannot use a Debit Card online to invest through an ISA, Junior ISA or Share Plan the application forms you need are MOVING MONEY FROM A PREVIOUS ISA all available via www.
You can also invest online If you have opened ISAs with other investment companies, you in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC shares via the share can move them into the Fidelity ISA and invest in Fidelity China trading facility available via www.
Special Situations PLC without losing any tax benefits.
This is TheShare Dealing service, ShareNetwork, is provided by Xest known as an ISA transfer and it can be a great way to give your which is the online trading division of Charles Stanley & Co portfolio a new focus, or to realign it with your current investment Limited, a leading London stockbroker.
Please note that during the transfer your money will not be to buy or sell shares in any listed company during normal London invested in the stock market so you may miss out on any growth Stock Exchange trading hours between 8am and 4.30pm any during this time.
Shares in ShareNetwork can either be held direct orin an ISA, subject to the normal ISA limits and restrictions.
You Charges Fidelity does not apply an initial charge for a transfer will be shown a live price and be able to buy or sell immediately.
into Fidelity China Special Situations PLC.
You will also not have to If an order is placed when the market is closed, it will be pay any additional transfer costs.
However, please bear in mind processed as soon as the market reopens.
Unlike many online that your current ISA manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
share dealing services, Fidelity ShareNetwork gives you CREST Ifyour old fund provider charges you a fee for leaving them, personal membership for shares held direct.
This means that Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 69 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Investing in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC shares are registered on the CREST system in your own name and online for only 9 per trade Stamp duty is also payable on everything relating to your shares dividends, annual reports and purchases at the rate of 0.5%.
There is an account administration so on will be sent direct to you and you will be able to attend fee of 5.10 per month regardless of how many different shares and vote at shareholder meetings in your own name.
you own and whatever their value.
Of course, you need to remember that the value of tax savings and eligibility to invest in Personal CREST membership does not apply to ISA holdings an ISA will depend on your individual circumstances, and all tax which must be held in the name of the ISA managers nominee rules may change in the future.
There is no extra charge for opening a ShareNetwork ISA and share purchases or sales are executed FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9 am to 6 pm.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, next to St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk its or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA and Junior ISA are offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by FIL Investments International.
Both companies are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in thefuture.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by FIL Investments International.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than older developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investors should also note thatthe views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon by Fidelity.
Fidelity, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, the Fidelity Worldwide Investment logo and the symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited.
The content of websites referenced in this document does not form part of this document.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 70 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
