INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Fidelity 12.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and China Special Situations PLC will be held at Merchant Taylors unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8JB, on 22 July 2015 at the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers 11 am for the following purposes: of the Company to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the 1.
To receive and adopt the Annual Report and Financial Company relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal Statements for the year ended 31 March 2015. amount of 571,354 approximately 10% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital of the Company 2.
To declare that a final dividend for the year ended including Treasury Shares as at 11 June 2015 and so that the 31 March 2015 of 1.30 pence per Ordinary Share be paid to Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any shareholders who appear on the register as at close of arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to business on 24 July 2015. deal with Treasury Shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, 3.
To re-elect Mr John Owen as a Director.
any territory or any other matter, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company 4.
To re-elect Mr Nicholas Bull as a Director.
or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the 5.
To re-elect Mr David Causer as a Director.
Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to 6.
To re-elect The Hon Peter Pleydell-Bouverie as a Director.
be allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
To re-elect Ms Elisabeth Scott as a Director.
are revoked, but without prejudice to any allotment of shares or grant of rights already made, offered or agreed to be made 8.
To re-elect Mr Andrew Wells as a Director.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report excluding the 13.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 12 set out above, the section headed The Remuneration Policy set out on page 31 Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant to for the year ended 31 March 2015.
Sections 570-573 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the 10.
To reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor of the authority given by the said resolution 12 and or to sell Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general Ordinary Shares held by the Company as Treasury Shares for meeting at which Financial Statements are laid before the cash, as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such Company.
allotment, or sale, provided that this power shall be limited: 11.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a remuneration.
rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of relevant equity securities where the equity securities attributable To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of which will be proposed, in the case of Resolution 12 as an such class are either proportionate as nearly as may be ordinary resolution and in the case of Resolutions 13 and 14 as to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held special resolutions.
by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either Authority to allot shares and dis-application of pre-emption case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the rights Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to Resolutions 12 and 13 will, if approved, authorise the Directors to fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or allot a limited number of the new Ordinary Shares or sell any practical problems in, or under the laws of, or the Ordinary Shares which the Company elects to hold in Treasury for requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock cash without first offering such shares to existing ordinary exchange in any territory or otherwise : shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
The limit set by the Board is 10% of the number of Ordinary Shares of the b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights issue Company including Treasury Shares in issue on 11 June 2015. of equity securities or sale of Treasury Shares up to an The Directors will only issue new Ordinary Shares, or dispose of aggregate nominal amount of 571,354 approximately Ordinary Shares held in Treasury, under this authority in order to 10% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share take advantage of opportunities in the market as they arise and capital of the Company including Treasury Shares as at only if they believe it is advantageous to the Companys 11 June 2015 : and shareholders to do so.
Any Ordinary Shares held in Treasury would only be re-issued at NAV per share.
This would ensure that c in either case, by the condition that allotments of equity the net effect of repurchasing and then re-issuing the Ordinary securities or sales of Treasury Shares may only be made Shares would enhance NAV per share.
pursuant to this authority at a price of not less than the Net Asset Value per share.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 62 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Notice of Meeting Notes: and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Annual months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the General Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and to earlier, save that this authority shall allow the Company to speak and vote instead of him.
A member may appoint more than make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority, one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that and the Directors may allot equity securities in relation to such each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to the Registrars Authority to repurchase shares atthe address on the form to arrive not later than 11 am on 20 July Resolution 14 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renew 2015.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the number shareholder from subsequently attending the meeting and voting in of Ordinary Shares in issue excluding Treasury Shares on person if they so wish.
11 June 2015 for immediate cancellation or for retention as Treasury Shares, at the determination of the Board.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any power of are held in Treasury, the Directors may only dispose of them in attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a copy of any accordance with the relevant legislation by subsequently selling such authority certified notarially or in some other way approved by the Directors, must be deposited with the Companys Registrars, the shares for cash or cancelling the shares.
Purchases of Capita Asset Services, PXS1, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Ordinary Shares will be at the discretion of the Board and within Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF not less than 48 hours before the time for guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the light of holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, not less than 24 hours market at prices below the prevailing Net Asset Value per share, before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to thereby resulting in an increased Net Asset Value per share.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and 4.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders the unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint ofthe Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market holders and for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act ofOrdinary Shares of 1 penny each in the capital of the 5.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a previously Company the shares provided that: appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must be received by the issuers agent RA10 by 11 am on 20 July 2015.
For a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be thispurpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as purchased shall be 84,540,524: determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is themessage.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy 1penny: appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST Members who have appointed voting c the maximum price which may be paid for a share is an service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
market quotations for a share taken from the London For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and systems StockExchange Official List for the five business days timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a immediately preceding the day on which the share is proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in purchased: Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In any case your proxy form must be received by the Companys d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the Registrars no later than 11 am on 20 July 2015. conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless such authority is renewed prior to such 6.
All members are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and ask questions.
The right to vote at the meeting will be time: and determined by reference to the Register of Members as at 5.30 pm on 20 July 2015. e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of 7.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated such authority which will or may be executed wholly or under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information partly after the expiration of such authority and may make rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
him and the member by whom he was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the By Order of the Board meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right FIL Investments International or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of Secretary voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the 11 June 2015 appointment of proxies in note 2 above does not apply to Nominated Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 63 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Notice of Meeting Persons.
The right described in that paragraph can only be exercised 14.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
by members of the Company.
A copy of this notice and other information required by Section 311A 8.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the Companys website at discretion as to how the votes which are the subject of those proxies www.
co. uk its are cast and the voting rights in respect of those discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in the Companys securities already held Note: Please see the Shareholder Information section on pages 71 by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of and 72 for contact details if you have any queries.
Please note that voting rights that he has a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure shareholders may not use any electronic address provided in either and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary this notice or any related documents including the Proxy Form to notifications to the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
Asa communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those result, any member holding three per cent or more of the voting rights expressly stated.
Shareholders may not use any telephone number set in the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy in out in this document for the purpose of lodging instructions for the respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would otherwise Annual General Meeting.
Similarly the Companys have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency website www.
co. uk its may not be used to send documents Rules, need not make separate notification to the Company and the orinstructions for the Annual General Meeting.
Registered office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP.
2001, the Company has specified that to be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the register of members by 5.30 pm on 20 July 2015.
If the meeting is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the register of members at 5.30 pm on the day two days before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
As at 11 June 2015 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document the Companys share capital consisted of 563,979,480 Ordinary Shares excluding Treasury Shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 11 June 2015 was 563,979,480.
As at 11 June 2015, there were 7,375,000 shares held in Treasury by the Company.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation tothe same shares.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint understand that by attending the meeting they are expressly agreeing that they are willing to receive any communications, including communications relating to the Companys securities, made at the meeting.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting or any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which the Annual Report and Financial Statements were laid.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with such requests.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys Auditor notlater than the time when it makes the statement available on thewebsite.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual GeneralMeeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 64 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Glossary to the Annual Report AIC COLLATERAL The Association of Investment Companies.
The Company is a Assets provided as security.
CONTRACT FOR DIFFERENCE CFD AIF A Contract For Difference is a derivative.
It is a contract between Alternative Investment Fund.
the Company and an investment bank at the end of which the parties exchange the difference between the opening price and AIFM the closing price of the underlying asset of the specified financial Alternative Investment Fund Manager.
The Board has appointed instrument.
It does not involve the Company buying or selling the FIL Investment Services UK Limited to act as the Companys AIFM.
underlying asset, only agreeing to receive or pay the movement in its share price.
A Contract For Difference allows the Company to AIFMD gain access to the movement in the share price by depositing a The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive 2011 61 EU is small amount of cash known as margin.
The Company may a European Union Directive that came into force on 22 July 2013. reason that the asset price will rise, by buying long position or The implementation date was 22 July 2014. fall, by selling short position.
If the Company holds long positions, dividends are received and interest is paid.
If the AUDITOR Company holds short positions, dividends are paid.
Grant Thornton UK LLP or such other auditor, as the Company may appoint from time to time.
CUSTODIAN An entity that holds as intermediary the Companys assets, BENCHMARK INDEX arranges the settlement of transactions and administers income, The Benchmark Index is MSCI China Index total return net in proxy voting and corporate actions.
The Companys Custodian is UK sterling and is a composite of China B, H, Red Chip and JPMorgan Chase bank.
DEBT CAPITA ASSET SERVICES Bank borrowings and long Contracts For Difference.
DEPOSITARY CENKOS SECURITIES Entity that oversees the custody, cash arrangements and other The Companys Broker.
AIFM responsibilities of the Company.
The Board has agreed, in principle, that J. P. Morgan Europe Limited will act as the CHINA A SHARES Companys Depositary.
Shares traded on the Chinese Stock Exchanges in Chinese renminbi.
Foreign investors were unable to participate in the DERIVATIVES China A Shares market until the introduction of the QFII program Financial instruments whose value is derived from the value of an in 2002 which provided a legal framework for licensed QFIIs to underlying asset or other financial instruments such as stocks, invest in China A shares on the Chinese Stock exchanges and bonds, currency exchange rates, real estate and commodities, or certain other securities previously not eligible for investment by market benchmarks such as interest rates.
The main categories of foreign investors.
derivatives are Contracts For Difference, warrants, futures, and options.
CHINA B SHARES Shares traded on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shanghai DISCOUNT Stock Exchange in Hong Kong dollars and US dollars, respectively.
If the share price of the Company is lower than the Net Asset The shares were originally intended to be available only to Value per Ordinary Share, the Companys shares are said to be foreign individuals and institutional investors, however, since trading at a discount.
It is shown as a percentage of the Net Asset February 2001 they have been available to domestic individual Value per Ordinary Share.
investors who trade through legal foreign currency accounts.
EQUITY LINKED NOTES OR ELN CHINA H SHARES Debt instruments whose return on investment is linked to specific Shares in companies incorporated in the PRC and listed on the equities or equity markets.
The return on equity linked notes may Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
They are available to non-Chinese be determined by an equity index, a basket of equities, or a investors and are traded in Hong Kong dollars on the Hong Kong single equity.
FAIR VALUE CHINESE RENMINBI The carrying value in the Balance Sheet which represents the Currency of the PRC.
amount that would be received or paid on disposal of the financial asset or liability.
CHINESE STOCK EXCHANGES The Shanghai Stock Exchange, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and FIL any other stock exchange located within the PRC from time to time.
FIL Limited and each of its subsidiaries.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 65 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Glossary to the Annual Report FIL LIMITED expressed as a ratio of Net Asset Value.
There are two measures The ultimate parent company of the FIL Group of companies.
The key difference between them is that: Incorporated in Bermuda.
The Gross Method does not reduce exposure for hedging: and FIDELITY The Commitment Method does reduce exposure for hedging.
MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT FORWARD CURRENCY CONTRACT The agreement between FIL Investment Management Hong An agreement to buy or sell a currency, commodity or other asset Kong Limited and the Company regarding the management of at a specified future date and at a predetermined price.
It is not the Companys investments dated 17 July 2014. standardised and is not traded on organised exchanges.
MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS FUTURE OR FUTURE CONTRACT Together, represents the Management Agreement and the An agreement to buy or sell a stated amount of a security, Unlisted Management Agreement.
currency or commodity at a specific future date and at a preagreed price.
MANAGEMENT FEE The annual management fee is 1.0% of the Net Asset Value of the GEARING Company for the year ended 31 March 2015.
Gross Asset Exposure in excess of Net Assets.
MSCI CHINA INDEX GROSS ASSETS The Benchmark Index of the investment performance of the Net Assets plus borrowings.
GROSS ASSET EXPOSURE MSCI CHINA MID CAP INDEX The value of the portfolio to which the Company is exposed, Designed to measure the performance of the mid cap segment of whether through direct or indirect investment including the the China market.
The Index represents approximately 15% of the economic value of the exposure in the underlying asset of the free float-adjusted market capitalisation of the China equity derivatives, but excluding forward currency contracts.
HEDGING MSCI CHINA SMALL CAP INDEX A hedge position demonstrates risk reduction qualities by Designed to measure the performance of the small cap segment delivering short exposure to an asset which has regional of the China market.
The Index represents approximately 14% of congruence and a correlation of at least 80% to long exposures in the free float-adjusted market capitalisation of the China equity the Companys portfolio.
It therefore distinguishes itself from a universe.
short which is a position not opened with the objective of reducing the long exposure in the portfolio.
Qualifying hedge NET ASSET VALUE NAV exposures do not count towards the short exposure limits.
For the Net Asset Value is sometimes described as Shareholders Funds purposes of calculating Gross Asset Exposure, the exposure and is the total value of the Companys assets less the total value attributed to the hedge positions will be deducted from the of its liabilities.
For valuation purposes it is common to express the exposure of the corresponding long positions.
Short positions are Net Asset Value on a per share basis.
added to long positions in arriving at the Gross Asset Exposure.
NET ASSET VALUE NAV PER ORDINARY SHARE INDEX LINKED SECURITIES The NAV per Ordinary Share is calculated as Shareholders Funds Debt instruments whose return on investment is linked to changes divided by the number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
in interest rates, stock exchanges, or other price indices.
OPTIONS INVESTMENT MANAGER An option is a contract which gives the right but not the obligation FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited.
to buy or sell an underlying asset at an agreed price on or before an agreed date.
Options may be call or put and are used to gain INVESTMENT MANAGERS or reduce exposure to the underlying asset on a conditional basis.
Together, represents the Investment Manager and the Unlisted Investment Manager.
P CHIPS Companies controlled by mainland individuals, with the LEVERAGE establishment and origin of the company in mainland China.
Any method by which an AIFM increases the exposure of an AIF PChips are incorporated outside of the Peoples Republic of itmanages whether through borrowing cash or securities, or China PRC and traded on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong leverage embedded in derivative positions or by any other with a majority of revenues or assets derived from Mainland means.
Leverage is measured in terms of exposure and is China.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 66 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Glossary to the Annual Report PERFORMANCE FEE REGISTRAR The Investment Managers are entitled to an annual performance Entity that manages the Companys shareholders register.
The fee of 15% of any change in NAV attributable to performance Companys Registrar is Capita Asset Services.
which is more than 2% above the returns on the MSCI China Index total return net in UK sterling after making good any RETURN cumulative under-performance, including the 2% hurdle, carried The return generated in a given period from investments: forward from previous years, subject to a maximum performance fee payable in any year equal to 1.0% of the arithmetic mean of Revenue Return reflects the dividends and interest from the value of assets with the valuation calculated at the end of investments and other income, net of expenses, finance costs each month during the year.
and taxation: Capital Return reflects the on capital, excluding any capital PRC return: and The Peoples Republic of China excluding Taiwan, Hong Kong Total Return reflects the aggregate of revenue and capital and the Macau Special Administrative Region of the PRC.
PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS SECRETARIAL AGREEMENT Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that a company The agreement between the Secretary and Company regarding offering a new issue of shares must first make an offer of these the provision of company secretarial and administrative services shares, on the same or more favourable terms, in proportion to dated 25 February 2010 and novated by a deed dated 17 July the nominal value held by existing shareholders.
At each annual 2014. general meeting, the Board seek shareholder approval to disapply pre-emption rights provision, up to 10% of the Companys SECRETARY issued share capital.
PORTFOLIO SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS The Companys portfolio which may be made up of equities, Also described as Net Asset Value, Shareholders Funds represent index linked securities, equity linked notes and other debt the total value of the Companys assets less the total value of its securities, cash deposits, money market instruments, foreign liabilities as shown in the balance sheet.
currency exchange transactions and other interests including derivative instruments such as futures, options and Contracts For SHORT STOCK EXPOSURE Difference.
The position of the Company when it has sold a security or derivative that it does not own but is now committed to eventually PREMIUM purchase in order to satisfy its obligation to sell.
It is a strategy If the share price of the Company is higher than the Net Asset used to capitalise on an expected decline in the securitys or Value per Ordinary Share, the Companys shares are said to be derivatives price.
The premium is shown as a percentage of the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
TREASURY SHARES Ordinary Shares of the Company that have been repurchased by PROSPECTUS the Company and not cancelled but held in Treasury.
These The Prospectus of the Company dated 7 January 2011. shares do not pay dividends, have no voting rights and are excluded from the Net Asset Value calculation.
QFII The Investment Manager is a QFII a Qualified Foreign UNLISTED MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT Institutional Investor and as such has been granted a QFII licence The agreement between the Company and FIL Investment by the China Securities Regulatory Commission CSRC which Services UK Limited for the management of the unlisted permits the Company to invest in China A Shares through the investments.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited has delegated Investment Manager and has received an allocation of quota for this function to FIL Investments International.
onshore investment from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC SAFE.
UNLISTED SECURITIES These are securities not listed on a regulated stock exchange.
RED CHIPS They are stated at best estimate of fair value, based on Companies incorporated outside China but which are based in recognised valuation techniques which may take account of recent mainland China.
Red Chips are listed on, and are required to arms length transactions in the investments.
observe the filing and reporting requirements of, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
Red Chips typically have a significant portion of WARRANTS their business interests located in mainland China and many are A derivative security that gives the Company the right to purchase owned, either directly or indirectly, by organisations or enterprises securities usually equity from the issuer at a specific price and controlled by the Chinese state, provinces or municipalities.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 67 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
