INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Fidelity issued share capital of the Company as at 11March 2016 European Values PLC will be held at 25 Cannon Street, London and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions EC4M 5TA on 12 May 2016 at 12 noon for the following purposes: and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with Treasury shares, fractional 1.
To receive and adopt the Annual Report and Financial entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015. problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next 2.
To declare that a final dividend for the year ended Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 31December 2015 of 3.33 pence per ordinary share be paid months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the to shareholders on the register as at close of business on earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to 29March 2016. make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted 3.
To elect Mr Vivian Bazalgette as a Director.
after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
To re-elect Mr James Robinson as a Director.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 11, the Directors be 5.
To re-elect Mr Simon Fraser as a Director.
and they are hereby authorised, pursuant to Sections 570 573 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 6.
To re-elect Dr Robin Niblett as a Director.
560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority given by the said Resolution 11 and or to sell ordinary shares held by the 7.
To re-elect Ms Marion Sears as a Director.
Company as Treasury shares for cash, as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that 8.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report excluding the this power shall be limited: section headed The Remuneration Policy set out on page 29 for the year ended 31 December 2015. a to the allotment of equity securities or sale of Treasury shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 520,560 9.
To appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor of the Company to approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at the issued share capital of the Company as at 11 March which Financial Statements are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors b by the condition that allotments of equity securities or remuneration.
sales of Treasury shares may only be made pursuant to this authority at a price of not less than the net asset value To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of per share, which Resolution 11 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution and Resolutions 12 and 13 as special resolutions.
and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 Authority to allot shares and dis-application of pre-emption months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the rights earlier, save that this authority shall allow the Company to Resolutions 11 and 12 will, if approved, authorise the Directors to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority, allot a limited number of the new ordinary shares or sell any and the Directors may allot equity securities in relation to such ordinary shares which the Company elects to hold in Treasury an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this forcash without first offering such shares to existing ordinary resolution had not expired.
shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
The limit set by the Board is 5% of the number of ordinary shares of the Company Authority to repurchase shares in issue on 11 March 2016.
The Directors will only issue new Resolution 13 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renew ordinary shares, or dispose of ordinary shares held in Treasury, the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the number under this authority to take advantage of opportunities in the of ordinary shares in issue excluding Treasury shares on market as they arise and only if they believe it is advantageous 11March 2016 for immediate cancellation or for retention as tothe Companys shareholders to do so.
Any ordinary shares Treasury shares, at the determination of the Board.
Once shares heldin Treasury would only be re-issued at a premium to net are held in Treasury, the Directors may only dispose of them in asset value per share.
accordance with the relevant legislation by subsequently selling the shares for cash or cancelling the shares.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and shares will be made at the discretion of the Board and within unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of guidelines set from time to time by the Board and in the light of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that market at prices below the prevailing net asset value per share, section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 520,560 thereby resulting in an increase in net asset value per share.
approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of the Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 56 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values PLC T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Notice of Meeting 13.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and Notes: unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Annual the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market General Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and to purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of speak and vote instead of him.
A member may appoint more than ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each in the capital of the one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that Company the shares provided that: each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be of the Company.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to the Registrar at b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary the address on the form to arrive not later than 12 noon on 10 May share is 2.5 pence: 2016.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a shareholder from subsequently attending the meeting and voting in person if they so wish.
c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for a share is the higher of: 3.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a copy of any i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the such authority certified notarially or in some other way approved by middle market quotations for a share taken from the the Directors, must be deposited with the Companys Registrar, London Stock Exchange Official List for the five Capita Asset Services, PXS1, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, business days immediately preceding the day on Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF not less than 48 hours before the time for which the share is purchased: and holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be ii the higher of the price quoted for the last independent used.
trade and the highest current independent bid as stipulated by Article 5 1 of Commission Regulation 4.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders the EC 22 December 2003 implementing the Market vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint Abuse Directive as regards exemptions for buyback holders and for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the programmes and stabilisation of financial instruments order in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a previously d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must be conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the received by the issuers agent RA10 by 12 noon on 10 May 2016.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as Company unless such authority is renewed prior to such determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST time: and Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored such authority which will or may be executed wholly or members and those CREST Members who have appointed voting partly after the expiration of such authority and may make service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and systems By Order of the Board timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in FIL Investments International Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Secretary In any case your proxy form must be received by the Companys 11 March 2016 Registrar no later than 12 noon on 10 May 2016.
All members are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and ask questions.
The right to vote at the meeting will be determined by reference to the Register of Members as at 5.30pm on 10May 2016.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 57 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values PLC T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Notice of Meeting appointment of proxies in Note 2 above does not apply to Nominated 14.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
The right described in that paragraph can only be exercised by members of the Company.
A copy of this notice and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the Companys website at 8.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given www.
co. uk its discretion as to how the votes which are the subject of those proxies are cast and the voting rights in respect of those discretionary proxies, Note: Please see the Shareholder Information section on pages 60 and 61 when added to the interests in the Companys securities already held for contact details if you have any queries.
Please note that shareholders by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of may not use any electronic address provided in either this notice or any voting rights that he has a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure related documents including the Proxy Form to communicate with the and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
notifications to the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
As Shareholders may not use any telephone number set out in this document a result, any member holding 3% or more of the voting rights in the for the purpose of lodging instructions for the Annual General Meeting.
Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy in respect Similarly the Companys pages on the Manager's website at of some or all of those voting rights and so would otherwise have a www.
co. uk its maynot be used to send documents or instructions notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, for the Annual GeneralMeeting.
need not make separate notification to the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations Millfield Lane, 2001, the Company has specified that to be entitled to attend and Lower Kingswood, vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of Tadworth, determining the number of votes they may cast, members must be Surrey KT20 6RP entered on the register of members by 5.30pm on 10 May 2015.
If the meeting is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Register of Members at 5.30pm on the day two days before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
As at 11 March 2016 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document the Companys issued share capital consisted of 416,447,910 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 11March 2016 was 416,447,910.
As at 11 March 2016, there were no shares held in Treasury by the Company.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint understand that by attending the meeting they are expressly agreeing that they are willing to receive any communications, including communications relating to the Companys securities, made at the meeting.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting or any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which the Annual Report and Financial Statements were laid.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with such requests.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys Auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 58 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values PLC T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
