INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Glossary of Terms AIF DERIVATIVES Alternative Investment Fund.
Financial instruments such as futures, options and Contracts For Difference whose value is derived from the value of an underlying AIFM asset.
The Board has appointed FIL Investment Services UK Limited to act as the Companys AIFM DISCOUNT the Manager.
If the share price of the Company is lower than the net asset value per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at AIFMD a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the net The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive is a European asset value.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more Union Directive implemented on 22 July 2014. common for an investment trust to trade at a discount than a premium.
BENCHMARK INDEX FTSE World Europe ex UK Index against which the performance FAIR VALUE of the Company is measured.
The fair value is the best estimate of the realisable value of the investments, including derivatives, at a point in time and this is CAPITAL GAINS TAX CGT measured as: The tax that may be payable if shares are sold at a profit.
Listed investments - valued at bid prices, or last market prices, COLLATERAL where available, otherwise at published price quotations: Asset provided as security for the unrealised gain or loss under a Contract For Difference.
Unlisted investments - valued using an appropriate valuation technique in the absence of an active market: CONTRACT FOR DIFFERENCE CFD A Contract For Difference is a derivative.
It is a contract between Futures and options - valued at the quoted trade price for the the Company and an investment house at the end of which the contract: and parties exchange the difference between the opening price and the closing price of the underlying asset of the specified financial Contracts For Difference - valued as the difference between instrument.
It does not involve the Company buying or selling the the settlement price of the contract and the value of the underlying asset, only agreeing to receive or pay the movement in underlying shares in the contract unrealised gains or losses.
A Contract For Difference allows the Company to gain access to the movement in the share price by depositing a FUTURES small amount of cash known as margin.
The Company may An agreement to buy or sell a fixed amount of an asset at a fixed reason that the asset price will rise, by buying long position or future date and a fixed price.
fall, by selling short position.
If the Company trades long, dividends are received and interest is paid.
If the Company GEARING trades short, dividends are paid and interest is received.
Gearing describes the level of the Companys exposure and is expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
It reflects the CORPORATION TAX amount of exposure the Company uses to invest in the market.
It The tax the Company may have to pay on its profits for a year.
can be obtained through the use of bank loans, bank overdrafts Investment trust companies are exempt from corporation tax on and derivatives, in order to increase the Companys exposure to their capital gains and do not pay tax on any UK dividends.
The Company uses two key measures of Asthey can offset expenses against any taxable income, most gearing: investment trusts do not pay corporation tax and are therefore taxefficient.
Gross gearing is the total of: long exposures, plus short exposures and less exposures hedging the portfolio, CUSTODIAN expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
An entity that holds as intermediary the Companys assets, arranges the settlement of transactions and administers income, Net gearing is the total of: long exposures, less short proxy voting and corporate actions.
The Companys Custodian is exposures and less exposures hedging the portfolio, JPMorgan Chase Bank.
expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
DEPOSITARY HEDGING An entity that oversees the custody, cash arrangements and other A strategy aimed at minimising or eliminating the risk or loss AIFM responsibilities of the Company.
J. P. Morgan Europe Limited through adverse movements, normally involving taking a position act as the Companys Depositary.
in a derivative such as a future or an option.
62 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values PLC T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Glossary of Terms INVESTMENT MANAGER PORTFOLIO MANAGER Fil Investments International acts as the Companys Investment Sam Morse is the appointed Portfolio Manager of the Company Manager under delegation from FIL Investment Services UK and is responsible for managing the Companys assets.
PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS LEVERAGE Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that a company Any method by which an AIFM increases the exposure of an AIF it offering a new issue of shares must first make an offer of these manages whether through borrowing cash or securities, or shares, on the same or more favourable terms, in proportion to leverage embedded in derivative positions or by any other the nominal value held, to existing shareholders.
Leverage is measured in terms of exposure and is General Meeting, the Board seeks shareholder approval to expressed as a ratio of net asset value.
There are two measures disapply pre-emption right provisions, up to 5%.
of calculating leverage: PREMIUM The Gross Method which does not reduce exposure for If the share price of the Company is higher than the net asset hedging: and value per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a premium.
The premium is shown as a percentage of the net The Commitment Method which reduces exposure for asset value.
The opposite of a premium is a discount.
REGISTRAR MANAGER An entity that manages the Companys shareholder register.
The FIL Investments Services UK Limited, was appointed as the Companys Registrar is Capita Asset Services.
Manager in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, and has delegated, inter alia, the RETURN investment management of the Company to the Investment The return generated in a given period from the investments: Manager.
Revenue Return reflects the dividends and interest from NET ASSET VALUE NAV investments and other income, net of expenses, finance costs Net asset value is sometimes also described as shareholders and taxation: funds, and represents the total value of the Companys assets less the total value of its liabilities.
For valuation purposes it is Capital Return reflects the return on capital, excluding any common to express the net asset value on a per share basis.
revenue return: and NAV PER SHARE CUM-INCOME Total Return reflects the aggregate of revenue and capital The net asset value per share including the net revenue on returns.
ordinary activities after taxation for the period, as shown in the revenue column of the Income Statement.
SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS Shareholders funds are also described as net asset value and NAV PER SHARE EX-INCOME represent the total value of the Companys assets less the total The net asset value per share excluding the net revenue on value of its liabilities.
ordinary activities after taxation for the period.
TOTAL RETURN PERFORMANCE ONGOING CHARGES The return on the share price or net asset value per share taking Total expenses excluding finance costs and taxation incurred by into account the rise and fall of share prices and the dividends the Company as a percentage of average net asset values.
Any dividends received by the shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in additional shares for OPTIONS share price total return or the Companys assets for net asset An option is a contract which gives the right but not the obligation value total return.
to buy or sell an underlying asset at a specific price on or before a specific date.
Options call or put are used to gain or reduce TREASURY SHARES exposure to the underlying asset on a conditional basis, for Ordinary shares of the Company that have been repurchased by example, the purchase of a call option provides exposure to the the Company and not cancelled but held in Treasury.
These upside potential of an underlying stock, with the downside risk shares do not pay dividends, have no voting rights and are being limited to the premium paid.
excluded from the net asset value per share calculation.
PORTFOLIO EXPOSURE Portfolio Exposure measures the value of the portfolio exposed tomarket price movements as a result of owning shares and Contracts For Difference.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 63 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values PLC T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
