GOVERNANCE Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors have delegated responsibility for the maintenance and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and integrity of the corporate and financial information andregulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare includedon the Companys pages of the Managers website financial statements for each financial period.
Visitors to the website need to be they have elected to prepare the Financial Statements in awarethat legislation in the UK governing the preparation accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
anddissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their own jurisdictions.
The Financial Statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit We confirm that to the best of our knowledge the Financial or loss for the period.
Statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, In preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors are liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: required to: and the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the position of the Company together with a description of the consistently: principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
We confirm that we make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as prudent: awhole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and position and performance, business model and strategy.
explained in the Financial Statements: prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis Approved by the Board on 11 March 2016 and signed on its unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will behalf.
continue in business: and confirm, to the extent possible, that the Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Humphrey van der Klugt to enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply Chairman with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors Report, a Corporate Governance Statement and a Directors Remuneration Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 32 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
