INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Alternative Investment Fund Manager' s Disclosure In compliance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, the Board has appointed FIL Investment Services UK Limited FISL a Fidelity group company as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
FISL has delegated the portfolio management and company secretarial function to FIL Investments International another Fidelity group company.
Details of the Management Agreement can be found in the Directors Report on page 20.
The table below discloses information required by the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013.
Function AIFM Role and Responsibility AIFMD Disclosure Details of the Companys investment Investment Management The AIFM provides portfolio management of assets and investment advice in relation to the assets of the Company.
objective, strategy and investment policy, including limits, are on pages 7 and 8.
The Board remains responsible for setting the investment strategy, investment policy and investment guidelines and theAIFM operates within these guidelines.
Risk management The AIFM has responsibility for risk management for the The AIFM has an ongoing process for Company which is in addition to the Boards corporate identifying, evaluating and managing governance responsibility for risk management.
the principal risks faced by the Company which is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Company has a Risk Management Process Document The Board remains responsible for the which is agreed with the Board and demonstrates that risk Companys system of internal control management is separated functionally and hierarchically and for reviewing its effectiveness.
fromoperating units and is subject to independent safeguards.
Further details can be found in the The Manager maintains adequate risk management systems Strategic Report on pages 9 and 10 and in order to identify, measure and monitor all risks at least in Note 17 to the Financial Statements annually under the AIFMD.
The Manager is responsible for on pages 49 to 54. theimplementation of various risk activities such as risk systems, risk profile, risk limits and testing.
The Board, as part of UK corporate governance, remain responsible for the identification of significant risks and for theongoing review of the Companys risk management andinternal control processes.
Valuation of illiquid assets The AIFMD requires the disclosure of the percentage of the Not Applicable.
Companys assets which are subject to special arrangements arising from their illiquid nature.
Further, any new arrangements for managing the liquidity of the Company must be disclosed.
Leverage The Company uses leverage to increase its exposure The maximum leverage limits are 1.80 primarilyto the stockmarkets of continental Europe and for the Gross Method and 1.50 for the holdsderivatives to achieve this.
The AIFM has set maximum Commitment Method.
There has been levels of leverage that are reasonable and has implemented no change to the maximum level of systems to calculate and monitor compliance against these leverage that the Company may employ limits at all times.
A definition of leverage is included in the Glossary of Terms At 31 December 2015, actual leverage on page 63. was 1.03 for the Gross Method and 1.03 for the Commitment Method.
Liquidity management The AIFM, in consultation with the Board, maintains a No new arrangements for managing liquiditymanagement policy which is reviewed and theliquidity of the Company have been updated, if required, at least annually.
Further details can be found in Note 17 on page 52.
Remuneration of the AIFM The AIFM operates under the terms of Fidelitys Global The FCAs General Guidance on the AIFM Remuneration Policy Statement.
This ensures that the AIFM Remuneration Code has established that complies with the requirements of the FCAs Remuneration the first reporting year will not commence Code SYSC19A : the AIFM Remuneration Code SYSC19B until after the AIFMs first full performance and the BIPRU Remuneration Code SYSC19C.
Accordingly, there is no data to disclose in respect of remuneration of the AIFM for this year.
The AIFMs Annual Report is available to shareholders on request.
Please contact the Company Secretary whose address can be found on page 61.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 64 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values PLC T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Fidelity, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, the Fidelity Worldwide Investment logo and symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited Printed on FSC certified paper.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well-managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk: a paper made using 50% recycled fibre from genuinewaste paper and 50% virgin fibre.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this document, have been reduced to net zero through a verified, carbon offsetting project.
Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values PLC T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
