237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp26-pp43 GOV 14 12 2015 11:01 Page 43 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 43 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Governance Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company law in the United Kingdom requires the Directors to Responsibility Statement of the Directors in prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Respect of the Annual Financial Report Directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements The Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
In preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors have: the Financial Statements within this annual report have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting selected suitable accounting policies and applied them standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, consistently: liabilities, financial position and the net return for the made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and year ended 30 September 2015: prudent: the Chairmans Statement, Strategic Report and the followed applicable UK accounting standards: and Report of the Directors include a fair review of the information required by 4.1.
11R of the FCAs prepared the Financial Statements on a going concern Disclosure and Transparency Rules and 3.3.
Fund Sourcebook of the FCA Handbook: and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate the annual report and Financial Statements taken as a accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide any time the financial position of the Company and enable the information necessary to assess the Companys them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the performance, position, business model and strategy.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and On behalf of the Board other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Report of the Directors and other information included in the annual Anthony Townsend report is prepared in accordance with company law in the Chairman United Kingdom.
They are also responsible for ensuring that 10 December 2015 the annual report includes information required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The Financial Statements are published on the Companys website website address: www.
com and via the website of the AIFM website address: www.
The maintenance and integrity of these websites, so far as it relates to the Company, is the responsibility of the AIFM.
The work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of these websites and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on these websites.
Visitors to the websites need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the Financial Statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
