237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp70-imp INF 14 12 2015 11:03 Page 74 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 74 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Further Information Notice of the Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC will be held at Guildhall, City of London EC2P 2EJ on Thursday, 4 February 2016 at 12 noon, for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and consider the audited Financial Statements and the Report of the Directors for the year ended 30 September 2015.
To re-elect Anthony Townsend as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect John Allard as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Neil Collins as a Director of the Company.
To elect Simon Hayes as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect David Hunt as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Vanessa Renwick as a Director of the Company.
To receive and approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2015.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration.
Special Business To consider, and if thought fit, pass the following resolutions of which resolutions 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 are proposed as special resolutions: Authority to Allot Shares 10.
THAT in substitution of all existing authorities the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 551 of the Act up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 3,151,155.25 being 10% of the issued share capital at 9 December 2015 and representing 12,604,621 shares of 25p each in the Company or, if changed, the number representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date at which this resolution is passed provided that this authority share expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2017 or 15 months from the date of passing this resolution, whichever is the earlier, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting and provided that the Company shall be entitled to make, prior to the expiry of such authority, an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities pursuant to such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp70-imp INF 14 12 2015 11:03 Page 75 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 75 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Further Information Notice of the Annual General Meeting Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights 11.
THAT in substitution of all existing powers but in addition to any power conferred on them by resolution 12 set out in the notice convening the Annual General Meeting at which this resolution is proposed Notice of Annual General Meeting the Directors be and are hereby generally empowered pursuant to Section 570 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred on them by resolution 10 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting or otherwise as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment: a pursuant to an offer of equity securities open for acceptance for a period fixed by the Directors where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of holders of shares of 25p each in the Company Shares are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of Shares held by them but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements in connection with the issue as the Directors may consider necessary, appropriate or expedient to deal with equity securities representing fractional entitlements or to deal with legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange, or any other matter whatsoever: and b provided that otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 3,151,155.25, being 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 9 December 2015 and representing 12,604,621 shares or, if changed, the number representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date of the meeting at which this resolution is passed, and provided further that i the number of equity securities to which this power applies shall be reduced from time to time by the number of treasury shares which are sold pursuant to any power conferred on the Directors by resolution 12 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and ii no allotment of equity securities shall be made under this power which would result in Shares being issued at a price which is less than the higher of the Companys estimated cum or ex income net asset value per Share as at the latest practicable time before such allotment of equity securities as determined by the Directors in their reasonable discretion, and such power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or 15 months from the date of passing this resolution, whichever is earlier, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting and provided that the Company shall be entitled to make, prior to the expiry of such authority, an offer or agreement which would or might otherwise require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities pursuant to such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
THAT in substitution of all existing powers but in addition to any power conferred on them by resolution 11 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting the Directors be and are hereby generally empowered pursuant to Section 570 of the Act to sell relevant shares within the meaning of Section 560 of the Act if, immediately before the sale, such shares are held by the Company as treasury shares as defined in Section 724 of the Act Treasury Shares, for cash as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such sale provided that: a where any Treasury Shares are sold pursuant to this power at a discount to the then prevailing net asset value of ordinary shares of 25p each in the Company Shares, such discount must be i lower than the discount to the net asset value per Share at which the Company acquired the Shares which it then holds in treasury and ii not greater than 5% to the prevailing net asset value per Share at the latest practicable time before such sale and for this purpose the Directors shall be entitled to determine in their reasonable discretion the discount to the net asset value at which such Shares were acquired by the Company and the net asset value per Share at the latest practicable time before such Shares are sold pursuant to this power : and FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp70-imp INF 14 12 2015 11:03 Page 76 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 76 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Further Information Notice of the Annual General Meeting b this power shall be limited to the sale of relevant shares having an aggregate nominal value of 3,151,155.25, being 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 9 December 2015 and representing 12,604,621 Shares or, if changed, the number representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date of the meeting at which this resolution is passed, and provided further that the number of relevant shares to which power applies shall be reduced from time to time by the number of Shares which are allotted for cash as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply pursuant to the power conferred on the Directors by resolution 11 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, and such power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or 15 months from the date of passing this resolution, whichever is earlier, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting and provided that the Company shall be entitled to make, prior to the expiry of such authority, an offer or agreement which would or might otherwise require treasury shares to be sold after such expiry and the Directors may sell Treasury Shares pursuant to such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of the Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Company Shares either for retention as Treasury Shares for future reissue, resale, transfer or cancellation provided that: i the maximum aggregate number of Shares authorised to be purchased is 18,894,327 or, if changed, the number representing 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date of the meeting at which this resolution is proposed: ii the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share is 25 pence: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share is an amount equal to the greater of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a Share as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that Share is purchased and ii the higher of the last independent trade in shares and the highest then current independent bid for shares on the London Stock Exchange as stipulated in Article 5 1 of Regulation No.
2233 2003 of the European Commission Commission Regulation of 22 December 2003 implementing the Market Abuse Directive as regards exemption for buyback programmes and stabilisation of financial instruments : iv this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2017 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and v the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under this authority before the expiry of the authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority, and may make a purchase of Shares in pursuance of any such contract.
Adoption of New Articles of Association 14.
THAT the Articles of Association set out in the document produced to the meeting and signed by the Chairman of the meeting for the purposes of identification be and are hereby approved and adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for and to the exclusion of the existing Articles of Association of the Company.
Full explanatory notes of principal changes to the Articles of Association are set out on page 83.
237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp70-imp INF 14 12 2015 11:03 Page 77 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 77 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Further Information Notice of the Annual General Meeting General Meetings 15.
THAT any General Meeting of the Company other than the Annual General Meeting of the Company shall be called by notice of at least 14 working days provided that the authority shall expire on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, or, if earlier, on the expiry 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution.
By order of the Board Registered office: 50 Lothian Road Frostrow Capital LLP Festival Square Company Secretary Edinburgh EH3 9WJ 10 December 2015 FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp70-imp INF 14 12 2015 11:03 Page 78 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 78 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Further Information Notice of the Annual General Meeting Notes 1.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolutions.
If no voting indication is given, a proxy may vote or abstain from voting at his her discretion.
A proxy may vote or abstain from voting as he or she thinks fit in relation to any other matter which is put before the meeting.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be completed and signed and received by post or during normal business hours only by hand at Capita Asset Services, PXS1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF no later than 12 noon on Tuesday, 2 February 2016.
In the case of a member which is a company, the instrument appointing a proxy must be executed under its seal or signed on its behalf by a duly authorised officer or attorney or other person authorised to sign.
Any power of attorney or other authority under which the instrument is signed or a certified copy of it must be included with the instrument.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described below will not prevent a shareholder attending the meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraph 1 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in that paragraph can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only shareholders registered on the register of members of the Company the Register of Members at 5.30 p. m. on Tuesday, 2 February 2016 or, in the event of any adjournment, on the date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting will be entitled to attend and vote or be represented at the meeting in respect of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the Register of Members after that time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
As at 9 December 2015 being the last business day prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 126,046,212 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 9 December 2015 are 126,046,212.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with the specifications of Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited CRESTCo, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers, should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp70-imp INF 14 12 2015 11:03 Page 79 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 79 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Further Information Notice of the Annual General Meeting 13.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Register of Members in respect of the joint holding the first named being the most senior.
Members who wish to change their proxy instructions should submit a new proxy appointment using the methods set out above.
Note that the cut-off time for receipt of proxy appointments see above also applies in relation to amended instructions: any amended proxy appointment received after the relevant cut-off time will be disregarded.
Members who have appointed a proxy using the hard-copy proxy form and who wish to change the instructions using another hard-copy form, should contact Capita Asset Services on 0871 664 0300 Calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access charge.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.
We are open between 9.00 a. m. 5.30 p. m. Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
If a member submits more than one valid proxy appointment, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
In order to revoke a proxy instruction, members will need to inform the Company.
Members should send a signed hard copy notice clearly stating their intention to revoke a proxy appointment to Capita Asset Services, PXS1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF.
In the case of a member which is a company, the revocation notice must be executed under its common seal or signed on its behalf by an officer of the company or an attorney for the company.
Any power of attorney or any other authority under which the revocation notice is signed or a duly certified copy of such power of attorney must be included with the revocation notice.
If a member attempts to revoke its proxy appointment but the revocation is received after the time for receipt of proxy appointments see above then, subject to paragraph 4, the proxy appointment will remain valid.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
