237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp70-imp INF 14 12 2015 11:03 Page 72 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 72 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Further Information How to Invest Investment Platforms The Companys shares are traded openly on the London Stock Exchange and can be purchased through a stock broker or other financial intermediary.
The shares are available through savings plans including Investment Dealing Accounts, ISAs, Junior ISAs and SIPPs which facilitate both regular monthly investments and lump sum investments in the Companys shares.
There are a number of investment platforms that offer these facilities.
A list of some of them, that is not comprehensive nor constitutes any form of recommendation, can be found below: AJ Bell Youinvest http: www.
co. uk Alliance Trust Savings http: www.
co. uk Barclays Stockbrokers https: www.
aspx Charles Stanley Direct https: www.
co. uk Club Finance http: www.
co. uk wps portal FundsDirect http: www.
asp Halifax Share Dealing http: www.
co. uk Sharedealing Hargreaves Lansdown http: www.
co. uk HSBC https: investments.
co. uk Interactive Investor http: www.
asp James Brearley http: www.
aspx Natwest Stockbrokers http: www.
ashx Saga Share Direct https: www.
co. uk The Share Centre https: www.
com Saxo Capital Markets http: uk.
com TD Direct Investing http: www.
co. uk Capita Asset Services Share Dealing Service A quick and easy share dealing service is available to existing shareholders through the Companys Registrar, Capita Asset Services, to either buy or sell shares.
An online and telephone dealing facility provides an easy to access and simple to use service.
There is no need to pre-register and there are no complicated forms to fill in.
The online and telephone dealing service allows you to trade real time at a known price which will be given to you at the time you give your instruction.
To deal online or by telephone all you need is your surname, investor code, full postcode and your date of birth.
Your investor code can be found on your share certificate.
Please have the appropriate documents to hand when you log on or call, as this information will be needed before you can buy or sell shares.
For further information on this service, please contact: www.
com online dealing Telephone: 0371 664 0445 Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United Kingdom are charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open between 8.00 a. m. 4.30 p. m. Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp70-imp INF 14 12 2015 11:03 Page 73 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 73 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Further Information How to Invest RISK WARNINGS Past performance is no guarantee of future performance.
The value of your investment and any income from it may go down as well as up and you may not get back the amount invested.
This is because the share price is determined, in part, by the changing conditions in the relevant stock markets in which the Company invests and by the supply and demand for the Companys shares.
As the shares in an investment trust are traded on a stock market, the share price will fluctuate in accordance with supply and demand and may not reflect the underlying net asset value of the shares: where the share price is less than the underlying value of the assets, the difference is known as the discount.
For these reasons, investors may not get back the original amount invested.
Although the Companys financial statements are denominated in sterling, some of the holdings in the portfolio are currently denominated in currencies other than sterling and therefore they may be affected by movements in exchange rates.
As a result, the value of your investment may rise or fall with movements in exchange rates.
Investors should note that tax rates and reliefs may change at any time in the future.
The value of ISA and Junior ISA tax advantages will depend on personal circumstances.
The favourable tax treatment of ISAs and Junior ISAs may not be maintained.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
