237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp70-imp INF 14 12 2015 11:03 Page 71 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 71 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Further Information Glossary of Terms AIC Association of Investment Companies.
AIFMD The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the Directive is a European Union Directive that entered into force on 22 July 2013.
The Directive regulates EU fund managers that manage alternative investment funds this includes investment trusts.
AIFM Rules AIFMD and all applicable rules and regulations implementing AIFMD in the UK, including without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013 SI2013 1773 and all relevant provisions of the FCA Handbook.
Discount or Premium A description of the difference between the share price and the net asset value per share.
The size of the discount or premium is calculated by subtracting the share price from the net asset value per share and is usually expressed as a percentage % of the net asset value per share.
If the share price is higher than the net asset value per share the result is a premium.
If the share price is lower than the net asset value per share, the shares are trading at a discount.
FTSE Disclaimer FTSE is a trade mark of the London Stock Exchange Group companies and is used by FTSE International Limited under licence.
All rights in the FTSE indices and or FTSE ratings vest in FTSE and or its licensors.
Neither FTSE nor its licensors accept any liability for any errors or omissions in the FTSE indices and or FTSE ratings or underlying data.
No further distributions of FTSE Data is permitted without FTSEs express written consent.
Gearing Calculated using the Association of investment companies definition.
Total assets, less current liabilities before deducting any prior changes minus cash cash equivalents divided by Shareholders Funds, expressed as percentage.
Leverage The AIFM Directive the Directive has introduced the obligation on the Company and its AIFM in relation to leverage as defined by the Directive.
The Directive leverage definition is slightly different to the Association of Investment Companies method of calculating gearing and is as follows: any method by which the AIFM increases the exposure of an AIFM it manages whether through borrowing of cash or securities, or leverage embedded in derivative positions.
There are two methods for calculating leverage under the Directive the Gross Method and the Commitment Method.
The process for calculating exposure under each methodology is largely the same, except where certain conditions are met, the Commitment Method enables instruments to be netted off to reflect netting or hedging arrangements and the entity exposure is effectively reduced.
The Board has set the leverage limit for both the Gross Method and the Commitment Method at 125% of net assets.
These limits are monitored by both the Board and the AIFM.
As at 30 September 2015, the actual level of leverage for the Company amounted to 103% for the Gross and Commitment Method.
Net Asset Value NAV The value of the Companys assets, principally investments made in other companies and cash being held, less any liabilities.
The NAV is also described as shareholders funds per share.
The NAV is often expressed in pence per share after being divided by the number of shares which have been issued.
The NAV per share is unlikely to be the same as the share price which is the price at which the Companys shares can be bought or sold by an investor.
The share price is determined by the relationship between the demand and supply of the shares.
Net Asset Value Total Return The theoretical total return on an investment over a specified period assuming dividends paid to shareholders were reinvested at net asset value per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
This is a way of measuring investment management performance of investment trusts which is not affected by movements in discounts or premiums.
Ongoing Charges Ongoing charges are calculated by taking the Companys annualised expenses, excluding exceptional items, and expressing them as a percentage of the average net asset value of the Company over the year.
Share Price Total Return The change in capital value of a companys shares over a given period, plus dividends paid to shareholders, expressed as a percentage of the opening value.
The assumption is that dividends paid to shareholders are re-invested in the shares at the time the shares are quoted ex dividend.
Treasury Shares Shares previously issued by a company that have been bought back from shareholders to be held by the company for potential sale or cancellation at a later date.
Such shares are not capable of being voted and carry no rights to dividends.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
