OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements As required by company law, the Directors are responsible for the In accordance with Chapter 4 of the Disclosure and Transparency preparation of the Report and Accounts, which is required to include Rules, the Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Annual Report on the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Remuneration and Corporate Governance Statement.
The Directors applicable UK generally accepted accounting standards, on a must not approve the financial statements unless in their opinion going concern basis, and give a true and fair view of the assets, they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company liabilities, financial position and return of the Company: as at 31 December 2015 and of the results for the year then ended.
the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development The Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the Report and and performance of the Company and the important events that Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and that adequate have occurred during the financial year and their impact on the accounting records are sufficient to show and explain the Companys financial statements, including a description of principal risks and transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the uncertainties for the forthcoming financial year: and financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Report include details the financial statements and the Directors Report on Remuneration on related party transactions.
comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
In preparing the financial statements, suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently and On behalf of the Board reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
Simon Fraser Chairman The Report and Accounts is published on the 7 March 2016 www.
com website, which is maintained by F&C.
The content and integrity of the website maintained by F&C or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of F&C.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Overseas visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the Report and Accounts may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
Report and Accounts 2015 | 45 Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of the Report and Accounts of which PwC is unaware and he or she has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that PwC is aware of that information.
46 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
