Information for Shareholders Net asset value and share price investment plans available.
For further details, please contact the AIC The Companys net asset value is released daily, on the working on 020 7282 5555, or visit the website: www.
co. uk day following the calculation date, to the London and New Zealand Stock Exchanges.
The current share price of Foreign & Colonial is Unclaimed dividends shown in the investment trust section of the stock market page in The Company has engaged the services of Georgeson a subsidiary most leading newspapers, usually under For & Col. Investors in of Computershare to locate shareholders, or their beneficiaries, who New Zealand can obtain share prices from leading newspapers in have lost track of or are unaware of their investments.
is provided at no cost to the Company: Georgeson retain 10% of unclaimed dividends from the shareholder on completion of each Performance information successful claim.
Alternatively, shareholders are given the option of Information on the Companys performance is provided in the contacting the Registrar themselves, thereby incurring no charges.
half-yearly and final reports which are sent to shareholders in August and March respectively.
More up-to-date performance Common reporting standards information, including the full list of investments in the portfolio New tax legislation under The OECD Organisation for Economic as at the most recent month end, is available on the Internet at Co-operation and Development Common Reporting Standard www.
The F&C for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information The website at www.
com also provides a monthly update on Common Reporting Standard has been introduced with effect the Companys geographic spread and largest holdings, along with from 1st January 2016.
The legislation requires investment trust comments from the Fund Manager.
companies to provide personal information to HMRC on certain investors who purchase shares in investment trusts.
The Company UK capital gains tax CGT will have to provide information annually to the local tax authority An approved investment trust does not pay tax on capital gains.
UK on the tax residencies of a number of non-UK based certificated resident individuals may realise net capital gains of up to 11,100 in shareholders, and corporate entities.
the tax year ended 5 April 2016 without incurring any tax liability.
All new shareholders, excluding those whose shares are held in CREST, who are entered onto the share register from 1 January A rate of CGT of 18% will apply where taxable income and gains 2016 will be sent a certification form for the purposes of collecting do not exceed the income tax higher rate threshold 31,785 in this information.
A higher rate of 28% will apply to those whose For further information, please see HMRCs Quick Guide: income and gains exceed this figure.
Automatic Exchange of Information information for account holders www.
uk government publications exchange-ofIncome tax .
The final dividend of 2.70 pence per share is payable on 3 May 2016.
From April 2016 dividend tax credits will be replaced by an annual 5,000 tax-free allowance to UK residents on dividend income received in their entire share portfolios.
Dividend income received in excess of this amount will be taxed at rates of 7.5% basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% higher rate taxpayers or 38.1% additional rate taxpayers.
Association of Investment Companies AIC Foreign & Colonial is a member of the AIC, which publishes a monthly statistical information service in respect of member companies.
The publication also has details of ISA and other Registered in England and Wales with Company Registration No.
12901 86 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
