OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION FINANCIAL REPORT 10.
There are no investments held which are valued in accordance with Level B or Level C i prior year: none.
Level A includes investments and derivatives quoted on any recognised stock exchange or quoted on the AIM market in the UK and quoted open-ended funds.
Level B includes investments for which the quoted price has been suspended, forward exchange contracts and other derivative instruments.
Level C i includes investments in securities which are not quoted or listed but for which observable market data is available for use in assessing value.
Level C ii includes investments in private companies or securities, whether invested in directly or through pooled Private Equity vehicles, for which observable market data is not specifically available.
Investments managed or advised by F&C The portfolio of investments does not include any funds or investments managed or advised by F&C 2014: none.
Under the terms of the Companys Management Agreement with F&C set out in note 4, the management fee is adjusted for fees earned by the Manager on all such holdings.
During the year the Company purchased nil 2014: nil of such investments, and received nil 2014: 15.2 million from sales.
Unquoted investments Unquoted investments include 275.8 million 2014: 363.2 million of investments described as Private Equity, together with 2.5 million 2014: 2.7 million of other partnerships, the underlying portfolios of which principally comprise unlisted investments.
These are valued in accordance with the policies set out in note 2 c ii on the accounts.
It is in the nature of Private Equity and similar unquoted investments that they may be loss making, with no certainty of survival, and that they may prove difficult to realise.
The concept of fair value as applied to such investments is not precise and their ultimate realisation may be at a value materially different from that reflected in the accounts.
Further details on the valuation process in respect of Private Equity investments can be found in note 25 d. Report and Accounts Report and Accounts 2015 2015 || 65 65
