OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION NOTICE OF MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and thirty-seventh Special Resolutions: Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Merchant To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2 on Tuesday, special resolutions: 26 April 2016 at 12 noon for the following purposes: 14.
Share buyback authority Ordinary Resolutions: THAT, in substitution for any existing authority, but without To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the ordinary resolutions: date hereof, the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors report and accounts for the section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to make year ended 31 December 2015. market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the 2.
To approve the Directors annual report on remuneration.
Act of fully paid ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of 3.
To declare a dividend on the ordinary shares.
the Company ordinary shares on such terms and in such 4.
To re-elect Ms Sarah Arkle as a Director.
manner as the Directors may from time to time determine, 5.
To re-elect Sir Roger Bone as a Director.
To re-elect Mr Stephen Burley as a Director.
To re-elect Ms Francesca Ecsery as a Director.
a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised 8.
To re-elect Mr Simon Fraser as a Director.
To re-elect Mr Jeffrey Hewitt as a Director.
the number of ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury 10.
To re-elect Mr Nicholas Moakes as a Director.
shares as at the date of the passing of this resolution: 11.
To appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the Company.
b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be 12.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration paid for an ordinary share shall be 25p: of the auditors.
c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is the higher of i an amount equal 13.
Authority to allot shares to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations THAT, in substitution for any existing authority, but without for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days hereof, the Directors be and they are hereby generally and immediately preceding the date on which the ordinary share unconditionally authorised, in accordance with section 551 of is contracted to be purchased, and ii an amount equal to the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to exercise all the powers the higher of the price of the last independent trade for an of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in ordinary share on the trading venues where the purchase is the Company together being relevant securities up to an carried out: aggregate nominal amount of 6,950,000 during the period d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion commencing on the date of the passing of this resolution and of the next annual general meeting of the Company after expiring at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the passing of this resolution or on 30 June 2017, whichever is Company in 2017 or 30 June 2017 whichever is earlier, unless earlier, unless such authority is varied, revoked or renewed previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in a prior to such time by the Company in general meeting by general meeting the relevant period save that the Company special resolution: and may, at any time prior to the expiry of this authority, make offers e the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of such or enter into agreements which would or might require relevant authority enter into a contract or contracts to purchase securities to be allotted after the expiry of the relevant period ordinary shares under such authority which will or may be and notwithstanding such expiry the Directors may allot relevant completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements.
of such authority and the Company may purchase ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract or contracts as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Report and Accounts 2015 | 81 Lombard Street 15.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights Notes: THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 13 above and in substitution for any existing authority, but without prejudice 1.
PwC will retire immediately following Annual General Meeting and, subject to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, to shareholder approval, EY will act as auditors with immediate effect.
A the Directors be and they are hereby empowered, pursuant to copy of PwCs letter explaining the reasons for their retirement are set out sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, in the appendix to this Notice of Meeting.
to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of the Act either pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 2.
A member is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any 13 for cash or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if section of the members rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
A proxy 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or transfer, need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting for provided this power shall be limited to: the members vote to be counted.
If a member appoints more than one proxy to attend the meeting, each proxy must be appointed to exercise a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
of equity securities: i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may 3.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given discretion be practicable to their existing holdings: and as to how the votes are cast and the voting rights in respect of those ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in the Companys rights of those securities or as the Directors otherwise securities already held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding consider necessary, such number of voting rights that he has a notifiable obligation under and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the and make any arrangements which they consider necessary necessary notifications to the Company and the Financial Conduct or appropriate to deal with any treasury shares, fractional Authority FCA.
As a result, any person holding 3% or more of the entitlements or securities represented by depositary receipts, voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or proxy in respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would under the laws of, any territory or the requirements of any otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter: and Transparency Rules need not make a separate notification to the b the allotment otherwise than under paragraph a of this Company and the FCA.
Resolution 15 of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,950,000, and shall expire at the 4.
Any such person holding 3% or more of the voting rights in the Company conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy will need Company after the passing of this Resolution or on 30 June to ensure that both he and such person complies with their respective 2017 whichever is the earlier, unless extended by the disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Company in a general meeting the relevant period save that the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of this 5.
A Form of Proxy is provided with this notice for members.
If a member authority make offers or enter into agreements which would wishes to appoint more than one proxy and so requires additional proxy forms, the member should contact Computershare Investor Services or might require equity securities to be allotted or transferred after the expiry of the relevant period and notwithstanding PLC on 0800 923 1506.
To be valid, the Form of Proxy and any power of such expiry the Directors may allot or transfer equity attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements.
copy of such authority must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand at the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, Liverpool Street By Order of the Board Registered office: For and on behalf of Exchange House F&C Investment Primrose Street Business Limited London EC2A 2NY Secretary 7 March 2016 Bank of England Merchant Taylors Hall Bank Leadenhall Steet Cornhill Threadneedles Lloyds Mansion Hotel of House London 82 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Fenchurch St Monument Station Threadneedle Street King William Street Old Broad Street Bishopsgate OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION NOTICE OF MEETING not less than 48 hours before the time of the holding of the meeting or 10.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 1 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations any adjournment thereof.
Completion and return of a Form of Proxy will 2001 as amended and for the purposes of section 360B of the not preclude members from attending and voting at the meeting should Companies Act 2006 the Act, the Company has specified that only they wish to do so.
Amended instructions must also be received by the those members registered on the register of members of the Company at 11 p. m. on 24 April 2016 the Specified Time or, if the meeting Companys registrars by the deadline for receipt of Forms of Proxy.
is adjourned to a time more than 48 hours after the Specified Time, by 6.
Alternatively, members may register the appointment of a 11 p. m. on the day which is two days prior to the time of the adjourned proxy for the meeting electronically, by accessing the website meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of www.
com where full instructions for the procedure the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
The Control Number, Shareholder Reference and PIN as is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the Specified Time, printed on the Form of Proxy will be required in order to use the electronic that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement proxy appointment system.
This website is operated by Computershare of members to attend and vote and for the purposes of determining the Investor Services PLC.
The proxy appointment and any power of attorney number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
Changes to or other authority under which the proxy appointment is made must be the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded received by Computershare Investor Services PLC not less than 48 hours in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting 11.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting or adjourned meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
If you want to appoint more than one proxy electronically please contact and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the Computershare Investor Services PLC on 0800 923 1506.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting 7.
Investors holding shares in the Company through the F&C Private service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service Investor, or Childrens Investment Plans, the F&C Child Trust Fund, Junior provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
ISA or in an F&C Individual Savings Account should ensure that forms of direction are returned to Computershare Investor Services PLC not later 12.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST than 12 noon on 19 April 2016.
Alternatively, voting directions can be service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with submitted electronically at www.
com by entering the Control Number, Shareholder Reference Number and PIN as printed on Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the the form of direction.
Voting directions must be submitted electronically information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST no later than 12 noon on 19 April 2016.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is 8.
Any person receiving a copy of this notice as a person nominated by a an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy member to enjoy information rights under section 146 of the Companies must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Act 2006 a Nominated Person should note that the provisions in issuers agent ID number 3RA50 by the latest time s for receipt of notes 2, 5 and 6 above concerning the appointment of a proxy or proxies proxy appointments specified in notes 5 and 6 above.
For this purpose, to attend the meeting in place of a member do not apply to a Nominated the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the Person as only shareholders have the right to appoint a proxy.
However, time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between the from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry Nominated Person and the member by whom he or she was nominated to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right communicated to the appointee through other means.
or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting 13.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or rights at the meeting.
voting service provider s should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for 9.
Nominated Persons should also remember that their main point of any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will contact in terms of their investment in the Company remains the member therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
who nominated the Nominated Person to enjoy information rights or, It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored perhaps, the custodian or broker who administers the investment on their behalf.
Nominated Persons should continue to contact that member, member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that custodian or broker and not the Company regarding any changes or his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as queries relating to the Nominated Persons personal details and interest shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means in the Company including any administrative matter.
The only exception of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST to this is where the Company expressly requests a response from a members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service Nominated Person.
provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings www.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the received by the Company after the date of this notice, will be available at circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated www.
Any electronic address provided either in this notice or in any related documents including the Form of Proxy may not be used to 15.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those a member provided that, if it is appointing more than one corporate expressly stated.
representative, it does not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate 22.
Copies of the letters of appointment between the Company and its representative.
Directors: a copy of the articles of association of the Company: the register of Directors holdings: and a deed poll relating to Directors 16.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the indemnities will be available for inspection at the registered office of the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require Company during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter Sundays and Bank Holidays excluded until the date of the meeting and relating to: also on the date and at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report the commencement of the meeting to the conclusion thereof.
and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: or 23.
No Director has a service agreement with the Company.
b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual 24.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the Act, members meeting the threshold accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company: Companies Act 2006. a to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is 17.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website intended to be moved at the meeting, and or publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 b to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in the business.
statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the in the business unless: Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective a website.
whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the companys constitution or otherwise, 18.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
b it is defamatory of any person or The Company must cause to be answered any question relating to the c it is frivolous or vexatious.
business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending the meeting.
However, members should note that no answer need be given in Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, and must the following circumstances: identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be a if to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation of the meeting included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons or would involve a disclosure of confidential information: making it, must be received by the Company not later than 11 March b if the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an 2016, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case answer to a question: or of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by c if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
of the meeting that the question be answered.
As at 3 March 2016, being the last practicable date prior to the printing of this notice, the Companys issued capital less the shares held in Treasury consisted of 556,203,022 ordinary shares of 25 pence each carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 3 March 2016 are 556,203,022.
This notice, together with information about the total number of shares in the Company in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting as at 3 March 2016 being the last practicable date prior to the printing of this notice and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business 84 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
