Y T I OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION L I B A T N U O C I N C N A O V INFORMATION How to Invest One of the most convenient ways to invest in Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC is through one of the savings plans run by F&C Management Limited.
Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income F&C Investment Trust ISA from them may go down as well as up and you may not receive back the full Use your ISA allowance to make an annual tax-efficient amount originally invested.
Tax rates and reliefs depend on the circumstances of investment of up to 15,240 for 2015 16 tax year with the individual.
The CTF and JISA accounts are opened in the childs name.
Money a lump sum from 500 or regular savings from 50 a cannot be withdrawn until the child turns 18. month.
You can also make additional lump sum top-ups at Annual management charges and certain transaction costs apply according to the any time from 250 and transfer any existing ISAs to us type of plan.
whilst maintaining all the tax benefits.
Annual account charge ISA: 60 VAT F&C Junior ISA JISA PIP: 40 VAT This is a tax-efficient savings plan for children who did not qualify for a CTF.
It allows you to invest up to 4,080 JISA CIP CTF: 25 VAT for 2015 16 tax year with all the tax benefits of the CTF.
You can pay the annual charge from your account, or by direct debit in addition to You can invest from 30 a month, or 500 lump sum, or a any annual subscription limits combination of both.
Since 6 April 2015, CTF holders can Dealing charge per holding choose to transfer an existing CTF to a Junior ISA.
ISA: 0.2% PIP CIP JISA: postal instructions 12, online instruction 8 F&C Child Trust Fund CTF The dealing charge applies when shares are bought or sold but the fixed rate CTFs are closed to new investors: however, if your child charge does not apply to the reinvestment of dividends for the PIP CIP JISA or the has a CTF with another provider, it is easy to transfer it to F&C.
Since 6 April 2015, the Registered Contact on a investment of regular monthly savings.
CTF can choose to transfer an existing CTF to a Junior There is no dealing charge on a CTF but a switching charge of 25 applies if more ISA.
Additional contributions can be made to the shares than 2 switches are carried out in one year.
account version of the CTF from as little as 25 per month Government stamp duty of 0.5% also applies on purchases where applicable.
or 100 lump sum up to a maximum of 4,080 for There may be additional charges made if you transfer a plan to another provider or 2015 16 tax year.
transfer the shares from your plan.
For full details of charges, please read the Key Features and Terms and Conditions of the plan before investing.
F&C Private Investor Plan PIP A flexible way to invest with a lump sum from 500 or HOW TO INVEST regular savings from 50 a month.
You can also make You can invest in all our savings plans online.
additional lump sum top-ups at any time from 250.
New Customers: Existing Plan Holders: Contact our Investor Services Team Contact our Investor Services Team F&C Childrens lnvestment Plan CIP Call: 0800 136 420 Call: 0345 600 3030 A flexible way to save for a child.
With no maximum Email: info@fandc.
com contributions, the plan can easily be set-up under bare trust Investing online: www.
com apply By post: F&C Plan Administration Centre where the child is noted as the beneficial owner to help PO Box 11114 reduce inheritance tax liability or kept in your name if you Chelmsford CM99 2DG wish to retain control over the investment.
Investments can be made from a 250 lump sum or 25 a month.
make additional lump sum top-ups at any time from 100.
CLIENTS FIRST F&C Management Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FRN: 119230 and is a member of the F&C Group.
The ultimate parent company of the F&C Group is the Bank of Montreal.
