Glossary of Terms AAF Report Report prepared in accordance with Audit and Assurance Faculty guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Administrator State Street Bank and Trust Company.
AIC Association of Investment Companies, the trade body for closed-end Investment Companies.
AIFMD Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
Issued by the European Parliament in 2012 and 2013, the Directive requires that all investment vehicles AIFs in the European Union, including Investment Trusts, must appoint a Depositary and an Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
The Board of Directors of an Investment Trust, nevertheless, remains fully responsible for all aspects of the Companys strategy, operations and compliance with regulations.
The Companys AIFM is F&C Investment Business Limited FCIB, a wholly-owned subsidiary of F&C Asset Management plc and ultimately BMO.
BMO Bank of Montreal, which is the ultimate parent company of F&C Benchmark the FTSE All-World Total Return Index is the benchmark against which the increase or decrease in the Companys net asset value is measured.
The Index averages the performance of a defined selection of companies listed in stock markets around the world and gives an indication of how those markets have performed in any period.
Divergence between the performance of the Company and the Index is to be expected as: the investments within this Index are not identical to those of the Company: the Index does not take account of operating costs: and the Companys strategy does not include replicating tracking this Index.
Closed-end company a company, including an Investment Company, with a fixed issued ordinary share capital the shares of which are traded on an exchange at a price not necessarily related to the net asset value of the company and which can only be issued or bought back by the company in certain circumstances.
CMA Competition and Markets Authority, an independent non-ministerial government department which promotes competition for the benefit of consumers.
Cum-dividend shares are classified as cum-dividend when the buyer of a security is entitled to receive a dividend that has been declared, but not paid.
Shares which are not cum-dividend are described as ex-dividend.
Custodian The Custodian is JP Morgan Chase Bank.
The custodian is a financial institution responsible for safeguarding, worldwide, the listed securities and certain cash assets of the Company, as well as the income arising therefrom, through provision of custodial, settlement and associated services.
Depositary The Depositary is JPMorgan Europe Limited.
Under AIFMD rules applying from July 2014, the Company must appoint a Depositary, whose duties in respect of investments, cash and similar assets include: safekeeping: verification of ownership and valuation: and cash monitoring.
Under the AIFMD rules, the Depositary has strict liability for the loss of the Companys financial assets in respect of which it has safekeeping duties.
The Depositarys oversight duties will include but are not limited to oversight of share buybacks, dividend payments and adherence to investment limits.
Derivative a contract between two or more parties, the value of which fluctuates in accordance with the value of an underlying security.
The contract is usually short-term for less than one year.
Examples of derivatives are Put and Call Options, Swap contracts, Futures and Contracts for Difference.
A derivative can be an asset or a liability and is a form of gearing because the fluctuations in its value are usually greater than the fluctuations in the underlying securitys value.
88 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION INFORMATION Discount Premium the share price of an Investment Trust is derived from buyers and sellers trading their shares on the stock market.
This price is not identical to NAV per share of the underlying assets less liabilities of the Company.
If the share price is lower than the NAV per share, the shares are trading at a discount.
This usually indicates that there are more sellers of shares than buyers.
Shares trading at a price above NAV per share are said to be at a premium, in which case there tend to be more buyers than sellers.
The Board of the Company tries to ensure that the shares trade, in normal market conditions, at around 92.5% of the value of the net assets i. e. that the discount is on average around 7.5% by means of buying shares from sellers at the below-NAV price and cancelling them or holding them in treasury.
Buybacks effectively create a profit for the Company and at least temporarily deal with the perceived excess of shares in the market.
Distributable Reserves Reserves distributable by way of dividend or for the purpose of buying back ordinary share capital see notes 2 c, 17, 18 and 19 on the accounts.
Company Law requires that Share Capital and the Capital Redemption Reserve may not be distributed.
The Companys articles of association allow distributions by way of dividend out of Capital Reserves.
Dividend payments are currently made out of Revenue Reserve.
The cost of all share buybacks is deducted from Capital Reserves.
Dividend Dates Reference is made in announcements of dividends to three dates.
The record date is the date after which buyers of the shares will not be recorded on the register of shareholders as qualifying for the pending dividend payment.
The payment date is the date that dividends are credited to shareholders bank accounts.
The ex-dividend date is normally the business day prior to the record date most ex-dividend dates are on a Thursday.
F&C F&C Asset Management plc and its subsidiaries including the Manager.
F&C savings plans the F&C Private Investor Plan, F&C Childrens Investment Plan, F&C Investment Trust ISA, F&C Junior ISA and F&C Child Trust Fund operated by F&C Management Limited, a company authorised by the Financial conduct Authority.
Foreign & Colonial Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC, also the Company.
Fund Manager Paul Niven, an employee of the Manager with overall management responsibility for the total portfolio.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This includes UK GAAP and International GAAP IFRS or International Financial Reporting Standards applicable in the European Union.
Gearing this is the ratio of the borrowings of the Company to its net assets.
Borrowings have a prior charge over the assets of a company, ranking before ordinary shareholders in their entitlement to capital and or income.
They include: preference shares: debentures: overdrafts and short and long-term loans from banks: and derivative contracts.
If the Company has cash assets, these may be assumed either to net off against borrowings, giving a net or effective gearing percentage, or to be used to buy investments, giving a gross or fully invested gearing figure.
Where cash assets exceed borrowings, the Company is described as having net cash.
The Companys maximum permitted level of gearing is set by the Board and is described within the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
Investment Company Section 833 UK Company Law allows an Investment Company to make dividend distributions out of realised distributable reserves, even in circumstances where it has made Capital losses in any year, provided the Companys assets remaining after payment of the dividend exceed 150% of the liabilities.
An Investment Company is defined as investing its funds in shares, land or other assets with the aim of spreading investment risk.
Investment portfolio strategies the separate regional, global and Private Equity portfolios that together make up the total investment portfolio of the Company.
Investment Trust taxation status Section 1158 UK Corporation Tax law allows an Investment Company referred to in Tax law as an Investment Trust to be exempted from tax on its profits realised on investment transactions, provided it complies with certain rules.
These are similar to Section 833 Company law rules but further require that the Company must be listed on a regulated stock exchange and that it cannot retain more than 15% of income received.
The Directors Report contains confirmation of the Companys compliance with this law and its consequent exemption from taxation on capital gains.
Leverage as defined under AIFMD rules, leverage is any method by which the exposure of an AIF being an investment vehicle under the AIFMD is increased through borrowing of cash or securities or leverage embedded in derivative positions.
Leverage is broadly equivalent to gearing, but is expressed as a ratio between the assets excluding borrowings and the net assets after taking account of borrowings.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys positions after deduction of cash balances, without taking account of any hedging or netting arrangements.
Under the commitment method, exposure is calculated without the deduction of cash balances and after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other.
Report and Accounts 2015 | 89 Manager AIFM F&C Investment Business Limited FCIB, a subsidiary of F&C Asset Management plc, which in turn is wholly owned by the Bank of Montreal Group BMO.
The responsibilities and remuneration of FCIB are set out in the Business Model, Directors Report and note 4 on the accounts.
Market capitalisation the stock market quoted price of the Companys shares, multiplied by the number of shares in issue.
If the Companys shares trade at a discount to NAV, the market capitalisation will be lower than the Net asset value.
Net asset value NAV the assets less liabilities of the Company, as set out in the Balance Sheet, all valued in accordance with the Companys Accounting Policies see note 2 on the accounts and UK Accounting Standards.
The net assets correspond to Total Shareholders Funds, which comprise the share capital account, capital redemption reserve and capital and revenue reserves.
The Companys 4.25% Perpetual debenture is valued in the Accounts at par redemption value and this Balance Sheet NAV is sometimes referred to as NAV, debt at par.
The debenture has historically traded at values different from its nominal value and the NAV using this value is described as NAV, debt at market value.
Non-executive Director a Director who has a contract for services, rather than a contract of employment, with the Company.
The Company does not have any executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors remuneration is described in detail in the Remuneration Report.
The duties of the Directors, who govern the Company through the auspices of a Board and Committees of the Board, are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement.
Ongoing Charges all operating costs expected to be regularly incurred and that are payable by the Company or suffered within underlying investee funds including Private Equity funds, expressed as a proportion of the average net assets of the Company over the reporting year see Ten Year Record.
The costs of buying and selling investments and derivatives are excluded, as are interest costs, taxation, non-recurring costs and the costs of buying back or issuing ordinary shares.
Open-ended Fund a collective investment scheme which issues shares or units directly to investors, and redeems directly from investors, at a price that is linked to the net asset value of the fund.
Private Equity an asset consisting of shares and debt in operating companies that are not publicly traded on a stock exchange.
The holdings in such companies may be collected in a Fund which operates as a limited partnership, with Partners contributing capital to the Fund over a period of years and receiving proportional repayments of capital and income as and when the investments are sold.
SSAE Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
SORP Statement of Recommended Practice.
The accounts of the Company are drawn up in accordance with the Investment Trust SORP, issued by the AIC, as described in note 2 on the accounts.
Total expense ratio TER an alternative measure of expenses to Ongoing Charges.
It comprises all operating costs incurred in the reporting period by the Company, calculated as a percentage of the average net assets in that year see Ten Year Record.
Operating costs exclude costs suffered within underlying investee funds, costs of buying and selling investments and derivatives, interest costs, taxation and the costs of buying back or issuing ordinary shares.
Total return the return to shareholders calculated on a per share basis by adding dividends paid in the period to the increase or decrease in the Share Price or NAV in the period.
The dividends are assumed to have been re-invested in the form of shares or net assets, respectively, on the date on which the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Treasury shares ordinary shares previously issued by the Company that have been bought back from shareholders on the open market and kept in the Companys own treasury.
Such shares may, at a later date, be re-issued for sale on the open market or cancelled if demand is insufficient.
Treasury shares carry no rights to dividends and have no voting rights and hence are not included within calculations of earnings per share or net asset value per share.
UK Code of Corporate Governance UK Code the standards of good practice in relation to board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders that all companies with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange are required to report on in their annual report and accounts.
90 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Foreign & Colonial Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Investment Trust PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 31 DECEMBER 2015 REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 31 DECEMBER 2015 Registered office: Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY Tel: 020 7628 8000 Fax: 020 7628 8188 www.
com Registrars: Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ Tel: 0800 923 1506 Fax: 0870 703 6143 www.
