OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION FINANCIAL REPORT Notes on the Accounts 1.
General information Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC is an Investment Company, incorporated in the United Kingdom with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company Registration number is 12901, and the Registered office is Exchange House, Primrose Street, London, EC2A 2NY, England.
The Company has conducted its affairs so as to qualify as an Investment Trust under the provisions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act, 2010 and intends to continue to do so.
Approval of the Company under S1158 has been received.
The Company intends to conduct its affairs so as to enable it to continue to comply with the requirements of S1158.
Such approval exempts the Company from UK Corporation Tax on gains realised in the relevant year on its portfolio of fixed asset investments and derivatives.
There have been no significant changes to the Companys accounting policies during the year ended 31 December 2015, as set out in note 2 below.
Changes to investment classifications, in accordance with new Accounting Standards applicable in the United Kingdom, are described in note 2 c i.
Changes to the bases of allocation of expenses are described in note 2 c vii.
Significant accounting policies a Going concern As referred to in note 24 and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors believe that it is appropriate for the accounts to be prepared on a going concern basis.
b Basis of accounting The accounts of the Company have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, modified to include fixed asset investments and derivatives at fair value, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Accounting Standards applicable in the United Kingdom and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP issued in November 2014.
The Company is applying for the first time Financial Reporting Standard FRS 102 applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, which forms part of the revised Generally Accepted Accounting Practice New UK GAAP issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in 2012 and 2013.
As a result of the first time adoption of New UK GAAP, comparative amounts and presentation formats have been amended where required.
The prior year net return attributable to ordinary shareholders and total shareholders funds remain unchanged from under the old UK GAAP basis.
The prior year Statement of Cash Flows has been restated to reflect presentational changes required under FRS 102 and does not include any other material changes.
The functional and presentational currency of the Company is pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
The Company had no operating subsidiaries at any time during the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
Consequently, consolidated accounts have not been prepared.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Companys activities comprise a single operating segment, which is investing internationally in equities to secure long-term growth in income and capital.
In accordance with the SORP, the Income Statement has been analysed between a Revenue Account dealing with items of a revenue nature and a Capital Account relating to items of a capital nature.
Revenue returns include, but are not limited to, dividend income and operating expenses and tax insofar as the expenses and tax are not allocated to capital, as described in note 2 c vii.
Net revenue returns are allocated via the revenue account to the Revenue Reserve, out of which interim and final dividend payments are made.
The amounts paid by way of dividend are shown in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Capital returns include, but are not limited to, realised and unrealised profits and losses on fixed asset investments and derivatives and currency profits and losses on cash and borrowings.
The Company may distribute net capital returns by way of dividend.
It is the Boards current stated intention, however, to continue paying dividends to equity shareholders out of the Revenue Reserve.
Report and Accounts Report and Accounts 2015 2015 || 57 57 2.
Significant accounting policies continued c Principal accounting policies The policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the year.
Changes to the hierarchical classification of Investments, applying with effect from 1 January 2015, are explained in note 2 c i below.
Changes to the bases of allocation of expenses between Revenue and Capital, applying with effect from 1 January 2015, are explained in note 2 c vii below.
i Financial instruments Financial instruments include fixed asset investments, derivative assets and liabilities, and long-term debt instruments, cash and shortterm deposits, debtors and creditors.
Accounting Standards recognise a hierarchy of fair value measurements, for financial instruments measured at fair value in the Balance Sheet, which gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level A previously called Level 1 and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs Level C ii previously called Level 3.
The classification of financial instruments depends on the lowest significant applicable input, as follows: Level A Unadjusted, readily and regularly available current quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Included within this category are investments listed on any recognised stock exchange or quoted on the AIM Market in the UK.
Level B Where quoted prices are unavailable, the price of a recent transaction for an identical asset is used, adjusted if necessary if the transaction arose from a forced sale or similar unusual circumstances.
Examples of such instruments would be forward exchange contracts and certain other derivative instruments.
The Company held no such securities during the year under review.
Level C Where no active market exists and recent transactions for identical instruments do not provide a good estimate of fair value, the value is the Directors best estimate, based on advice from relevant knowledgeable experts, use of recognised valuation techniques and on assumptions as to what inputs other market participants would apply in pricing the same or similar instrument.
Level C i comprises instruments for which observable market data exists.
Level C ii relates to instruments for which there is no observable market data.
Included within this category are investments in private companies or securities, whether invested in directly or through pooled Private Equity vehicles.
ii Fixed asset investments As an Investment Trust, the Company measures its fixed asset investments at fair value through profit or loss and treats all transactions on the realisation and revaluation of investments held as fixed assets, as transactions on the Capital Account.
Purchases are recognised on the relevant trade date, inclusive of expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of the investments.
Sales are also recognised on the trade date, after deducting expenses incidental to the sales.
Quoted investments are valued at bid value at the close of business on the relevant date on the exchange on which the investment is listed.
Investments which are not quoted or which are not frequently traded are stated at Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same or similar investment instruments.
Where no reliable fair value can be estimated, investments are carried at cost or less any provision for impairment.
With respect specifically to investments in Private Equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors rely on unaudited valuations of the underlying unlisted investments as supplied by the managers of those funds or partnerships.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers to those valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the above policies.
Distributions from Private Equity funds are recognised when the right to distributions is established.
iii Derivative instruments Derivatives including forward exchange contracts and options are accounted for as financial assets or liabilities.
Where it can be demonstrated that the derivative is connected to the maintenance of the Companys investments, the change in fair value is recognised as capital and shown in the Capital column of the Income Statement.
Where an option is written in the expectation that it will not be exercised, or that any losses on exercise will be outweighed by the value of the premiums received, the premiums are recognised in the Revenue column of the Income Statement.
The value of the premium is usually the options initial fair value and is recognised evenly over the life of the option.
Subsequent changes to fair value are adjusted in the Capital column of the Income Statement such that the total amounts recognised within Revenue and Capital represent the change in fair value of the option.
58 58 || For Foreign & Colonial Investment T eign & Colonial Investment T rust PLC rust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION FINANCIAL REPORT 2.
Significant accounting policies continued iv Debt instruments The Companys debt instruments include the 4.25% perpetual debenture stock included in the Balance Sheet at proceeds received, net of issue costs, and short-term bank borrowings and overdrafts, initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
No debt instruments held during the year required hierarchical classification.
The 4.25% perpetual debenture stock was issued in 1960.
The fair market value of the perpetual debenture stock is set out in note 16 on the accounts.
Finance charges, including interest, are accrued using the effective interest rate method.
See 2 c vii below for allocation of finance charges within the Income Statement.
The 11.25% debenture stock issued in 1989 was repaid in full in December 2014. v Foreign currency Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are expressed in Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Purchases and sales of investment securities, dividend income, interest income and expenses are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the respective dates of such transactions.
Exchange profits and losses on fixed assets investments are included within the changes in fair value in the Capital Account.
Exchange profits and losses on other currency balances are separately credited or charged to the Capital Account except where they relate to revenue items.
vi Income Income from equity shares is brought into the Revenue Account except where, in the opinion of the Directors, its nature indicates it should be recognised as within the Capital Account on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Fixed returns on non-equity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the investment.
Dividends are accounted for on the basis of income actually receivable, without adjustment for any tax credit attaching to the dividends.
Dividends from overseas companies are shown gross of withholding tax.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash scrip dividends, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in capital reserves.
vii Expenses, including finance charges Expenses are charged to the Revenue Account of the Income Statement, except as noted below: expenses incidental to the acquisition or disposal of fixed assets investments are charged to Capital Reserve realised via the Capital Account: 100% of management fees, invoiced to the Company in respect of certain Private Equity investments, are allocated to capital reserves, via the Capital Account, in accordance with the Boards long-term expected split of returns from those investments: 75% prior to 1 January 2015, 50% of other management fees and finance costs both net of applicable tax relief are allocated to Capital Reserves via the Capital Account, in accordance with the Boards long-term expected split of returns from the investment portfolio excluding Private Equity investments of the Company.
The change in proportion reflects the Boards changed expectation of the longterm split of returns from the investment portfolio.
All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
viii Taxation Deferred tax is provided on an undiscounted basis on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the Balance Sheet date, based on tax rates enacted by the reporting date that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of timing differences can be deducted.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate the tax relief on expenses charged to capital is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses charged through the Revenue Account, then no tax relief is transferred to the Capital Account.
Report and Accounts Report and Accounts 2015 2015 || 59 59
