OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION FINANCIAL REPORT Notes on the Accounts 1.
General information Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC is an Investment Company, incorporated in the United Kingdom with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company Registration number is 12901, and the Registered office is Exchange House, Primrose Street, London, EC2A 2NY, England.
The Company has conducted its affairs so as to qualify as an Investment Trust under the provisions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act, 2010 and intends to continue to do so.
Approval of the Company under S1158 has been received.
The Company intends to conduct its affairs so as to enable it to continue to comply with the requirements of S1158.
Such approval exempts the Company from UK Corporation Tax on gains realised in the relevant year on its portfolio of fixed asset investments and derivatives.
There have been no significant changes to the Companys accounting policies during the year ended 31 December 2015, as set out in note 2 below.
Changes to investment classifications, in accordance with new Accounting Standards applicable in the United Kingdom, are described in note 2 c i.
Changes to the bases of allocation of expenses are described in note 2 c vii.
Significant accounting policies a Going concern As referred to in note 24 and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors believe that it is appropriate for the accounts to be prepared on a going concern basis.
b Basis of accounting The accounts of the Company have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, modified to include fixed asset investments and derivatives at fair value, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Accounting Standards applicable in the United Kingdom and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP issued in November 2014.
The Company is applying for the first time Financial Reporting Standard FRS 102 applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, which forms part of the revised Generally Accepted Accounting Practice New UK GAAP issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in 2012 and 2013.
As a result of the first time adoption of New UK GAAP, comparative amounts and presentation formats have been amended where required.
The prior year net return attributable to ordinary shareholders and total shareholders funds remain unchanged from under the old UK GAAP basis.
The prior year Statement of Cash Flows has been restated to reflect presentational changes required under FRS 102 and does not include any other material changes.
The functional and presentational currency of the Company is pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
The Company had no operating subsidiaries at any time during the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
Consequently, consolidated accounts have not been prepared.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Companys activities comprise a single operating segment, which is investing internationally in equities to secure long-term growth in income and capital.
In accordance with the SORP, the Income Statement has been analysed between a Revenue Account dealing with items of a revenue nature and a Capital Account relating to items of a capital nature.
Revenue returns include, but are not limited to, dividend income and operating expenses and tax insofar as the expenses and tax are not allocated to capital, as described in note 2 c vii.
Net revenue returns are allocated via the revenue account to the Revenue Reserve, out of which interim and final dividend payments are made.
The amounts paid by way of dividend are shown in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Capital returns include, but are not limited to, realised and unrealised profits and losses on fixed asset investments and derivatives and currency profits and losses on cash and borrowings.
The Company may distribute net capital returns by way of dividend.
It is the Boards current stated intention, however, to continue paying dividends to equity shareholders out of the Revenue Reserve.
Report and Accounts Report and Accounts 2015 2015 || 57 57
