Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 85 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation Hastings Group Holdings plc the Company, HGH was initially incorporated as Hastings Group 123 Limited on 11 June 2015, with its registered office situated in England and Wales.
The Company was renamed as Hastings Group Holdings Limited on 17July 2015 and on 23 September 2015 it re-registered as a public company limited by shares and was renamed as Hastings Group Holdings plc.
The Companys registered office and principal place of business is at Conquest House, Collington Avenue, Bexhill-on-Sea, TN39 3LW, United Kingdom.
The principal activities of the Group are to broker and underwrite private car, van, bike and home insurance within the United Kingdom.
The Financial Statements comprise the consolidated results of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 and comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU IFRS that are in effect as at 31 December 2015.
IFRS comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
Reorganisation The Company was incorporated for the purposes of acquiring the share capital of Hastings Insurance Group Holdings plc HIG H. HIG H at the time was the ultimate parent company of Advantage Insurance Company Limited AICL and Hastings Insurance Services Limited HISL, the principal trading companies of the HIG H Group, as a result of its own acquisition of Hastings Insurance Group Limited HIG and its subsidiaries together referred to as the HIG Group on 8 January 2014, as described in note 35.
Prior to 8 January 2014, HIG was the parent company within the corporate structure.
On 12 August 2015, the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of HIG H in a series of transactions referred to as the reorganisation.
On that day the Company issued roll up loan notes in exchange for the entire issued ordinary share capital and preference shares, accrued dividends thereon and roll up loan notes in HIG H for the value of 1,100.0m.
On the same day, HIG H then converted its preference shares, accrued dividends thereon and roll up loan notes into ordinary share capital.
Asa result, the Companys 1,100.0m investment in HIG H represented the entire issued ordinary share capital of HIG H. Subsequently, the Company converted its roll up loan notes into ordinary share capital.
Both HGH and HIG H were under common control before and after the reorganisation and, as a consequence, the Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the principles of predecessor accounting.
Under these principles, no acquirer is required to be identified and all entities are included at their pre-combination carrying amounts.
This accounting treatment leads to differences on consolidation between consideration paid and the book value of the underlying net assets acquired: this difference is included within equity as a merger reserve.
Under predecessor accounting, the Group has included the results of the combined entities for both the current and prior period, rather than from the restructuring date.
Going concern The financial performance and position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are set out in the primary statements and the subsequent notes.
Further analysis of the Groups operations, capital management strategy, risk management practices and growth strategy is provided in the Strategic Report.
Having considered the foregoing items, the Groups approved budget and cash flow forecasts for the next 12 months and beyond, and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
86 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Basis of preparation continued Basis of measurement The functional currency is pounds sterling and the Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling.
Amounts are rounded to the nearest million with one decimal place i. e. 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amounts, events and actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Financial Statements, are disclosed in note 3.
The Financial Statements are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and property which are measured at their fair value or revalued amounts.
adoption of new IFRS On 1 January 2015, the Group adopted the following IFRS which were issued and endorsed by the EU: IFRS EU effective date Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20102012 Cycle Annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2015 issued on 12December 2013 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20112013 Cycle Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 issued on 12December 2013 IFRIC 21 Levies Annual periods beginning on or after 17 June 2014 There was no material financial impact on the Financial Statements on adoption of these new IFRS.
There are no other relevant IFRS which are expected to have a significant impact on the Group that have been issued and endorsed by the EU but are not yet effective.
Presentation of financial statements in accordance with IaS 1 The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The Group has elected to present a separate Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
application of IFRS The accounting policies, developed in accordance with the standards effective under IFRS as at 31 December 2015, have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Financial Statements.
There have been no changes to accounting policies during the year with the exception of the adoption of new IFRS now effective in the EU.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements consolidate the financial statements of HGH, HIG H and all of the subsidiary undertakings for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are based on financial statements of subsidiaries whose year ends are coterminous with those of the Company and accounting policies have been consistently applied throughout the Group.
Subsidiaries are investees controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an investee if it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The Group reassesses whether it has control if there are changes to one or more of the elements of control.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control commences until the date when control ceases.
Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group.
Identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed, in a business combination are initially measured at their fair value at the date of the acquisition.
Acquisition related costs, referred to as transaction costs, are expensed as incurred.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 87 2. accounting policies Revenue recognition Premiums and profit commission Premiums related to insurance contracts are recognised as revenue proportionally over the period of cover provided.
Premiums with an inception date after the period end are held in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in deferred income.
Outstanding collection of premiums from customers at the period end are recognised within insurance receivables.
Premiums ceded to reinsurers are recognised in profit or loss in the same accounting period as the related direct insurance business.
Under certain reinsurance contracts, profit commission may become receivable or payable on a particular underwriting year dependent on the difference between the ultimate loss ratio and the loss ratio threshold set out in the contract.
Profit commission receivable or payable at each reporting date is recognised based on the estimated ultimate loss ratio for that underwriting year at the reporting date.
Any movement on the profit commission receivable or payable in the period is recognised in profit or loss within reinsurance commissions.
Other reinsurance commissions are recognised in profit or loss within reinsurance commissions in the period to which they relate.
Revenue from insurance broking activities Revenue from insurance broking activities consists principally of fees and commissions relating to the arrangement of insurance contracts, ancillary product income and other income.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the income receivable and is recognised in profit or loss on completion of the associated service.
The fair value measurement makes allowance for expected future refunds to customers in the event of cancellation before the expiry of the policy.
Premium finance interest Premium finance interest earned on sales where customers choose to pay in monthly instalments instead of one single, upfront payment is recognised in profit or loss over the term of the related agreement using the effective interest method.
Investment and interest income Investment and interest income from financial assets comprises interest income and net gains and losses on certain financial assets at fair value.
Interest income for all interest-bearing financial assets, including financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss and available for sale, is recognised in profit or loss within investment and interest income using the effective interest rate method.
Investment and interest income also includes all realised investment gains and losses on financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss and available for sale as well as the unrealised gains and losses on financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Any unrealised gains and losses on available for sale financial assets are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and accumulated in other reserves.
They are reclassified to profit or loss on derecognition of the assets.
Dividends received from investments in subsidiaries are eliminated upon consolidation.
Discounts Premium discounts on policies underwritten by parties external to the Group are deducted from fees and commission within other revenue.
Premium discounts for policies underwritten by the Group are deducted from gross written premiums and are recognised proportionally over the period of cover provided.
Other discounts on revenue are deducted from the revenue streams to which they relate.
88 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. accounting policies continued Insurance contracts and reinsurance assets Unearned premiums reserve Premiums on policies with an inception date before the period end but with unexpired risks after the period end are held in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in the unearned premiums reserve.
The gross unearned premiums reserve and reserve for unearned premiums ceded to reinsurers are presented separately.
claims Gross outstanding claims liabilities are recognised at the value of expected future payments relating to claims incurred at the reporting date.
The expected future payments include those in relation to claims reported but not yet paid or not yet paid in full and claims incurred but not reported IBNR.
The liabilities are not discounted to present value.
Reinsurance assets are measured consistently with the amounts recognised for the associated reinsured insurance contracts and in accordance with the terms of each reinsurance contract.
Reinsurance assets are not discounted to present value.
Both outstanding claims liabilities assumed and reinsurance assets acquired in a business combination are discounted to present value on acquisition and these discounts are subsequently unwound over their expected settlement period.
While the Directors consider that the gross outstanding claims liabilities and the related reinsurance assets are fairly stated on the basis of the information currently available to them, the amount they ultimately settle at will vary as a result of subsequent information and events and may result in significant adjustments to the amounts recognised.
Adjustments to the amounts of outstanding claims liabilities established in prior years are reflected in profit or loss for the period in which the adjustments are made.
The methods used, and the estimates made, are reviewed regularly.
From time to time, periodical payment orders PPOs are awarded as a result of claims made under insurance contracts.
Such awards are generally for a fixed instalment over an indeterminate time period.
Claims settled, or expected to be settled, by means of a PPO are recognised at the present value of expected future cash flows of the award granted over the expected term of the PPO, and are recognised immediately when the award is considered probable.
Discounting is implicit within these reserving calculations at each period end for each expected PPO.
Reinsurance assets relating to PPOs are recognised alongside the related gross claims liabilities.
Reinsurance contracts Contracts entered into by the Group with reinsurers under which the Group is compensated for losses on one or more insurance contracts issued by the Group are classified as reinsurance contracts held.
The benefits to which the Group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts consist of short-term balances due from reinsurers, recognised as reinsurance receivables, as well as longer-term receivables that are dependent on the expected claims and benefits arising under the related reinsured insurance contracts, recognised as reinsurance assets.
Reinsurance liabilities are primarily premiums payable to reinsurers under reinsurance contracts held and are recognised when due.
Amounts recoverable from or due to reinsurers are measured consistently with the amounts recognised for the associated reinsured insurance contracts and in accordance with the terms of each reinsurance contract held.
The Group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment on an annual basis.
If there is objective evidence that the reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount of the reinsurance asset to its recoverable amount and recognises that impairment loss in profit or loss.
Where obligations with reinsurers are commuted, the related reinsurance assets and liabilities are settled in the period in which the agreement is signed, on the basis that the reinsurer is discharged from all obligations relating to the contract.
Any gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss in the same period.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 89 2. accounting policies continued Unexpired risks reserve A review of the carrying amount of the unearned premiums reserve is conducted at each reporting date.
If current estimates of the present value of the expected future cash flows relating to future claims arising from the rights and obligations under current insurance contracts exceed the unearned premiums reserve less related costs including deferred acquisition costs, then the unearned premiums reserve is deemed to be deficient.
The test is performed at the level of a portfolio of contracts that are subject to broadly similar risks and that are managed together as a single portfolio.
If any deficiency arises from the test, first an impairment to the deferred acquisition costs is recognised in profit or loss, and then if necessary an unexpired risks reserve is recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, through profit or loss.
Any movement on that reserve is recognised in profit or loss.
Salvage and subrogation recoveries Some insurance contracts permit the Group to pursue salvage recoveries through the sale of usually damaged property acquired in settling a claim.
The Group may also have the right to subrogation recoveries, where third parties are pursued for payment of some or all costs.
Salvage and subrogation recoveries, gross of any amounts which fall under reinsurance contracts held, are included in insurance and other receivables and the corresponding reinsurance amounts arising out of reinsurance contracts are included in insurance and other payables.
For salvage recoveries, the amount recognised is the amount that can be reasonably recovered from the disposal of the property.
For subrogation reimbursements, the amount recognised is the amount that can be recovered from the action against the liable third party.
levies The Group incurs levies as a consequence of both its insurance broking and underwriting activities.
The Group is charged levies by the Motor Insurers Bureau, Financial Conduct Authority FCA, Financial Services Commission FSC and other regulatory bodies in the UK and Gibraltar.
In line with IFRIC 21 Levies, these are accrued in full when the activity that gives rise to the liability occurs and are recognised in profit or loss over a period equivalent to that over which the underlying benefit is earned.
employee benefits The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme.
The amount recognised in profit or loss in respect of pension costs is the contributions payable in the period.
Differences between contributions payable in the period and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to make any further payments to the plans other than the contributions due.
Finance costs The Groups finance costs comprise interest due on financial liabilities held by the Group.
Interest due on financial liabilities is recognised using the effective interest method and includes amortisation of directly attributable transaction costs and any applicable discounts.
taxation Income tax on the result for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination, items recognised in other comprehensive income or items recognised directly in equity.
Current taxation expense is the expected income tax payable on the taxable profit for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date and any adjustment to income tax payable in respect of previous financial periods.
Deferred taxation expense is the change in deferred income tax assets and liabilities between the reporting periods.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognised using the balance sheet method for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Adeferred income tax liability is recognised for all taxable temporary differences except when they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
90 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. accounting policies continued taxation continued Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences and unused tax losses can be utilised.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of the consideration transferred in a business combination and the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of the business combination.
All business combinations which have been entered into by the Group in historic periods have resulted in the Group obtaining full ownership of the acquired entities.
Any acquisition costs are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination.
Goodwill has an indefinite life and is tested annually for impairment, with any impairment being recognised immediately in profit or loss.
An impairment exists where the recoverable amount of the CGU is lower than the combined carrying amount of net assets and goodwill allocated to the CGU.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is the higher of the fair value of the allocated CGU less costs to sell and the CGUs value in use, which is determined by discounting forecast results.
Software Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Purchased computer software is initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of consideration transferred plus directly attributable costs incurred in order to prepare the asset for its intended use.
Internally developed computer software is only recognised as an asset when the costs can be measured reliably, completion is technically and financially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and there is intention to use or sell the asset.
Other research and development expenditure is recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Amortisation is provided on all computer software, at rates calculated to write off the cost of the assets less their estimated residual value over their expected useful lives.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method and is recognised in profit or loss.
Expected useful economic lives and residual values are reviewed at each period end and, where necessary, changes are accounted for prospectively.
The expected useful economic lives are up to seven years for all of the Groups software.
Carrying amounts are reviewed at each period end to determine if there are indicators of impairment.
Where these exist the assets recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the assets value in use.
Where the assets recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount, the difference is recognised as an impairment loss in profit or loss.
Software is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
On derecognition, any gain or loss arising is calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item.
This is recognised in profit or loss in the period of derecognition.
Brands The Groups brands were acquired upon the Groups acquisition of HIG on 8 January 2014.
They were initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently recognised using the historical cost method their fair value on acquisition less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 91 2. accounting policies continued Brands continued Amortisation is provided on all brands at rates calculated to write off their cost less estimated residual value over their expected useful lives.
The expected useful economic life and residual value are reviewed at each period end and, where necessary, changes are accounted for prospectively.
The expected useful economic life is eight years for the Groups brands.
customer relationships The Groups customer relationships were acquired upon the Groups acquisition of HIG on 8 January 2014.
Amortisation is provided on all customer relationships, at rates calculated to write off the cost of the assets less their estimated residual value over their expected useful lives.
The expected useful economic life is five years for the Groups customer relationships.
Work in progress Work in progress includes assets in production which are considered to fulfil the criteria for recognition outlined in IAS 38 Intangible Assets but which have not yet reached the state where they are ready for their intended use.
As such no amortisation has yet been charged on these assets.
Property and equipment The Group has chosen to value property using the revaluation model.
Properties are initially recognised at cost and subsequent to initial recognition properties are carried at their revalued amount, which is the fair value at the date of revaluation less subsequent depreciation and impairment losses.
Revaluation surpluses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Upon disposal of a property, any revaluation surplus is recognised directly in retained earnings and is not reclassified to profit or loss.
Revaluations resulting in a reduction to fair value are initially offset against the revaluation surplus and any excess is immediately recognised in profit or loss.
Equipment, consisting of fixtures, fittings, office equipment, computer equipment and leasehold improvements, is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost is the fair value of consideration provided plus incidental costs incurred to bring an asset to the condition and location necessary for its intended use.
Subsequent costs incurred which relate to the initial production or improvement of an asset are added to its cost and depreciated over the assets useful economic life.
Costs incurred significantly later than the initial production of the asset are treated as a separate asset if they meet the criteria of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment or else are expensed as incurred.
Depreciation is provided on all property and equipment, at rates calculated to write off the cost, or fair value in the case of property, of the assets less their estimated residual value over their expected useful lives.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method and is recognised in profit or loss.
92 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. accounting policies continued Property and equipment continued The expected useful economic lives of property and equipment are as follows: Property 50 years Property and leasehold improvements 4-10 years Computer equipment 2-5 years Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3-5 years Expected useful economic lives and residual values are reviewed at each period end and, where necessary, changes are accounted for prospectively.
Property and equipment is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Work in progress Work in progress includes assets in production which are considered to fulfil the criteria for recognition outlined in IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment but which have not yet reached the state where they are ready for their intended use.
As such no depreciation has yet been charged on these assets.
Deferred acquisition costs Costs that are directly related to the acquisition of new insurance contracts are deferred and recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as deferred acquisition costs.
The deferred acquisition costs are held at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
They have an economic useful life of 12 months and are amortised over the coverage period of the related insurance contract, in line with recognition of the corresponding premiums.
Amortisation for the period is charged to acquisition costs in profit or loss.
leased assets Payments made under operating leases are charged in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Any incentives provided by the lessor are recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the full lease term.
Financial assets The Groups financial assets comprise financial assets at fair value, insurance and other receivables, and cash and cash equivalents.
For measurement purposes the Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, financial assets classified as available for sale and loans and receivables.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets are classified as fair value through profit or loss if they are classified as held-for-trading or are designated as such on initial recognition.
Financial assets may be designated as fair value through profit or loss if the Group manages such investments and makes purchase and sale decisions based on their fair value in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are initially measured at fair value being the cost of acquisition excluding transaction costs and are subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of these financial assets are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
Purchases and sales of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recognised on a trade date basis, being the date on which a commitment is made to purchase or sell the asset.
Transaction costs for purchases and sales of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are expensed as incurred in profit or loss.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 93 2. accounting policies continued available for sale Financial assets are classified as available for sale when they consist of investments acquired neither with the intention to sell in the near term, make purchase and sale decisions based on fair value, or with the intention to hold until maturity, and are not classified as loans and receivables.
Available for sale financial assets are initially measured at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date with unrealised gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in other reserves.
loans and receivables Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are initially recognised at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less accumulated impairment losses.
Cash and cash equivalents and insurance and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables for measurement purposes.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments and bank overdrafts.
Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet only when there is a current unconditional and legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts in all circumstances including the default by, insolvency or bankruptcy of the Group and all counterparties, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Derecognition of financial assets Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive future cash flows from the assets have expired, or have been transferred, and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
Any residual gains or losses resulting from the derecognition of the asset are recognised in profit or loss in the period of derecognition.
Any unrealised gains or losses on available for sale financial assets previously accumulated in other reserves are reclassified to profit or loss in the period of derecognition.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each period end date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired.
A financial asset is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset that can be reliably estimated.
Objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired includes observable data that comes to the attention of the Group about events such as: Significant financial difficulty of the issuer or debtor: A breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in payments: or It becoming probable that the issuer or debtor will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has occurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount and the impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss for the period.
When reductions in fair value of available for sale financial assets are considered to be impairment losses, losses accumulated in other reserves are reclassified to profit or loss.
The amount reclassified is the difference between the value on initial recognition, net of any principal repayment and amortisation, and the current fair value of the asset, less any impairment loss previously recognised in profit or loss.
94 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2. accounting policies continued Impairment of financial assets continued If in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss on financial assets other than available for sale financial assets decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised such as improved profitability of the debtor, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss in the period.
If the fair value of an impaired available for sale financial asset subsequently increases, the loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that it offsets impairment losses previously recognised: otherwise, it is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Financial liabilities The Groups financial liabilities include loans and borrowings, preference shares and insurance and other payables.
Financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs, which are capitalised and reduce the initial liability recognised.
Subsequently, financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Preference shares are recognised as a liability when there is a contractual obligation regarding dividend payments, defined repayment terms or a combination of both that indicates that they are a financial liability.
Dividends on such preference shares are recognised through profit or loss.
Insurance intermediary assets and liabilities Receivables and payables arising from insurance broking transactions are shown as assets and liabilities in recognition of the fact that the insurance broker has contractual rights to economic inflows from customers and obligations to third party insurers upon placement of insurance products with customers.
Receivables are recognised when the Group provides financing to customers for instalment premiums payable to third party insurers.
Payables arise either where the Group has an obligation to remit premiums received to third party insurers.
Share capital Shares are classified as equity when there is no obligation to transfer cash or other financial assets, or to exchange financial assets or liabilities under potentially unfavourable conditions.
Where such an obligation exists, the share capital is recognised as a liability notwithstanding the legal form.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of equity instruments are recognised as a deduction from share premium to the extent that there is sufficient share premium to do so, net of tax effects.
Dividends Dividends are recognised directly in equity when approved and payable.
Fair values Financial assets carried at fair value are analysed by valuation method based on levels defined as follows: Level 1: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The level in which financial assets carried at fair value have been classified in their entirety is determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 95 3. critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the Directors to make judgements and assumptions that affect the assets and liabilities recognised as at the reporting date and the income and expense recognised during the reporting period as well as the content of any disclosures.
Although these judgements and assumptions are based on the Directors best knowledge of the amounts, events and actions, actual results may differ from these judgements and assumptions.
The judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that the Directors have made in applying the Groups accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amount recognised in the Financial Statements and the major sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: claims liabilities The estimation of liabilities arising from claims made under insurance contracts and the related reinsurance recoveries are the Groups most critical accounting estimates.
Estimates, and the resulting loss ratios, are informed by detailed actuarial analysis and reflect a balanced assessment of risk and probability, resulting in a sufficiently prudent liability to give the Directors of the Group confidence that the Group is adequately provisioned to meet its future liabilities.
The calculation of reinsurance recoveries is intrinsically linked to the calculation of outstanding claims liabilities, and requires the same estimations and judgements.
In order to reduce the risk of underestimation of these liabilities, a margin is maintained over and above the Groups internal actuarial best estimate of outstanding claims liabilities.
When PPOs are awarded as a result of claims made under insurance contracts, they are generally for a fixed instalment over an indeterminate time period.
As such, reserving for PPOs granted inherently involves estimation by management as to the period over which the PPOs will be fulfilled.
As at the period end, management may consider the award of certain PPOs to be probable and as such these will be included in claims liabilities.
The value of instalments, the period over which these instalments will be payable and the likelihood of the PPO being granted are determined as a result of detailed review of the circumstances of each claim by management with support of the Groups actuaries.
Sensitivity of the Group to a change in loss ratios is included in note 20.
Property and equipment and intangible assets Management determines the estimated useful lives and residual values of property and equipment and intangible assets.
The estimated useful lives are reviewed annually and the amortisation and depreciation charge is revised prospectively where useful lives or residual values are subsequently found to be different from those previously estimated.
Where property and equipment and intangible assets are classified as work in progress as at the reporting date, management have assessed that the criteria for recognition outlined in IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment have been fulfilled.
Revenue from insurance broking activities Revenue from insurance broking activities is measured at the fair value of the income receivable and is recognised on completion of the associated service.
The revenue recognised makes allowance for expected future refunds required in the event of cancellations of contracts by customers.
Management judgement is required to estimate future refunds resulting from cancellations, based on cancellation experience.
Impairment of assets Changes in the circumstances or expectations of future performance of an individual asset may be an indicator that the asset is impaired.
The assets recoverable amount, the higher of its fair value less costs to sell or value in use, is assessed and where this is significantly below its carrying amount, impairment is deemed to exist.
Estimating the recoverable amount of an asset requires a high degree of judgement, as does the assessment of what is deemed to be significant, and may to a large extent depend upon the selection of key assumptions about future events.
Where recoverable amount cannot be assessed for an individual asset, it is assessed for its CGU.
Where a CGU requires an impairment, first the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU is impaired, before the other assets of the CGU are impaired on a pro-rata basis of their carrying amount.
96 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Insurance contracts risk management A key risk from operating in the general insurance industry is the exposure to insurance risk arising from underwriting insurance contracts.
Insurance contracts transfer risk to the insurer by indemnifying the customers against adverse effects arising from the occurrence of specified uncertain future events.
The risk is that the actual amount of claims to be paid in relation to contracts will be different from the amount estimated at the time the contract was designed and priced, which is before the losses relating to it are known.
Hence the insurance business involves inherent uncertainty.
A fundamental part of the Groups overall risk management strategy is the effective governance and management of risks that impact the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from insurance contracts.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating insurance risk A disciplined approach to risk management is adopted in accordance with strict protocols.
It is believed that this approach provides the greatest long-term likelihood of being able to meet the objectives of all stakeholders, including customers, lenders and shareholders.
The risk management activities can be broadly separated into underwriting acceptance and pricing of risk, reinsurance, claims management and investment management.
The objective of these risk management functions is to enhance the longer term financial performance of the overall insurance operations.
acceptance of risk The Board of Directors of the Groups underwriting subsidiary, AICL, approves the underwriting and pricing policy, and reviews and monitors the underwriting and pricing standards and strategies.
The Groups underwriting strategy is focused on a sophisticated data-driven approach to pricing and underwriting through: Collating and analysing comprehensive data from customers: Tight control over the pricing guidelines in order to target profitable business lines: and Fast and flexible responsiveness to market trends.
The underwriting of large numbers of uncorrelated individual risks reduces the variability in overall claims experience.
Management information systems are maintained that provide up-to-date, reliable data on the risks to which the business is exposed at any point in time.
Efforts are made, including the use of plain language policy terms, to ensure there is no misalignment between what customers perceive will be paid when a policy is initially entered and what is actually paid when a claim is made.
Pricing Statistical models are used which combine historical and projected data to calculate premiums and monitor claims patterns.
The data used includes historical pricing and claims analysis as well as current developments in the market.
All data used is subject to rigorous verification and reconciliation processes.
The models incorporate consideration of market conditions.
claims management Initial claim determination is managed by claims handlers with the requisite degree of experience and competence with the assistance, where appropriate, of a loss adjuster or other party with specialist knowledge.
It is the Groups policy to respond to and settle claims quickly whenever possible and to pay claims fairly, based on customers full entitlement in line with consumer and regulator expectations.
When PPOs are awarded as a result of claims made under insurance contracts, there is a risk that these may be of a high value and for a long term.
As such, management perform detailed reviews of expected PPOs throughout the claims process to identify the expected ultimate value of such claims as early as possible and reserve appropriately.
Reinsurance contracts Reinsurance contracts are used both to limit exposure to claims pervasively across the business, and specifically to limit exposure to large single claims and the accumulation of claims that arise from the same event or the accumulation of similar events.
The Group uses excess of loss reinsurance arrangements and the effect of such arrangements is that the Group should not suffer total net motor insurance losses of more than an inflation-adjusted 1.0m, gross of quota share recoveries, on any individual claim including PPOs.
For periods ended 31 December 2014 and prior, this threshold amount was 0.5m on any individual claim.
These arrangements have been in place for policies incepted by the Group since 1 January 2003 and for the year ended 31 December 2014 were subject to an aggregate deductible of 5.0m.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 97 4.
Insurance contracts risk management continued Reinsurance contracts continued The Group also uses excess of loss reinsurance arrangements for Home insurance policies, the effect of which is that the Group should not suffer total net home insurance losses of more than 0.3m capped at 15.0m liability per claim on any individual claim between 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015.
Additionally, the Group has a 50% quota share arrangement in place, applicable on all new motor insurance policies incepted by AICL since 1 July 2010.
The use of reinsurance contracts does not discharge the Groups liability as primary insurer.
If a reinsurer fails to pay a claim, the Group remains liable for the payment to the policyholder.
As part of reinsurance contract risk management, the creditworthiness of reinsurers to control exposure to reinsurance counterparty default is considered on a quarterly basis by reviewing their financial strength.
In addition, management assesses the creditworthiness of all reinsurers and intermediaries by reviewing credit grades provided by rating agencies and other publicly available financial information.
The recent payment history of reinsurers is also used to update the reinsurance purchasing strategy.
Investment management Assets and liabilities are managed so as to effectively match the expected pattern of claims payments with the assets that are held to back outstanding claims liabilities.
The mix of investment between cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities is managed to ensure that the Group has the ability to meet expected and unexpected requirements for cash.
This is discussed further in note 24. terms and conditions of insurance contracts The terms and conditions attached to insurance contracts affect the level of insurance risk accepted.
Insurance contracts written are entered into on a standard form basis.
Insurance contracts are entered into on an annual basis and at the time of entering into a contract certain terms and conditions are negotiable or, in the case of renewals, renegotiable.
There are no embedded derivatives that are separately recognised from a host insurance contract.
concentrations of insurance risk The exposure to concentrations of insurance risk is mitigated by a portfolio which is diversified across many different individual customers living in different parts of the UK.
Therefore, the Directors do not believe there are significant concentrations of insurance risk.
credit risk The management of credit risk arising out of insurance contracts is explained in note 24.
Segmental reporting Segments The Group has two reportable trading segments and a corporate head office, as described below.
These segments represent the principal split of business that is regularly reported to the Groups chief operating decision maker in line with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
Underwriting The Underwriting segment comprises the Underwriting business which is based in Gibraltar.
It includes AICL and its investment in Conquest House Limited.
The principal activity of AICL is the underwriting of general insurance, predominantly private car insurance in the UK.
From 1 January 2015, AICL underwrites UK home policies under a co-insurance arrangement.
Conquest House Limited owns property which is utilised by the Group.
Retail The principal activity of the Retail segment is the provision of insurance broking services to the private car, van, bike and home markets in the UK through the UK trading subsidiary HISL, much of which is underwritten by the Underwriting segment.
Broking services are also provided on behalf of a panel of external third-party insurers.
corporate The Corporate segment includes the results of various head office companies, whose primary activities are as holding and finance companies.
98 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Segmental reporting continued Removal of trading for the period ended 7 January 2014 This adjustment removes the HIG Groups result for the first seven days of trading in 2014, prior to its acquisition by the Group on 8 January 2014. consolidation adjustments Consolidation adjustments comprise the adjustments required to consolidate the Groups results under IFRS, including the elimination of intercompany balances, revenue between operating segments and investments in subsidiaries.
Sales between the Groups two reportable segments are carried out at arms length.
Operational amortisation and depreciation Operational amortisation and depreciation refers to the amortisation and depreciation recognised based on the underlying internal cost of assets.
It does not include amortisation of intangible assets identified and fair valued upon acquisition as described in note 35, which is included within the line item accounting for business combinations.
accounting for business combinations Accounting for business combinations reflects adjustments recognised in the period which relate to the restructuring as part of the Goldman Sachs investment on 8 January 2014, whereby HIG H acquired the HIG Group.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, this comprises non-operational amortisation arising on assets fair valued under acquisition accounting.
Operating profit Operating profit represents profit before taxation expense, interest expense, amortisation and depreciation, certain non-trading costs and the effects of accounting for business combinations.
Segment performance The tables below present the Groups results by reportable segment.
Consolidation Underwriting Retail Corporate adjustments Group Year ended 31 December 2015 m m m m m Net earned premiums 273.6 17.7 255.9 Other revenue 29.0 243.4 52.6 219.8 Investment and interest income 5.0 0.2 0.1 5.3 Net revenue 307.6 243.6 0.1 70.3 481.0 Net claims incurred 192.9 192.9 Operating expenses 76.8 153.7 2.2 70.7 162.0 Operating profit loss 37.9 89.9 2.1 0.4 126.1 Interest expense 54.6 Operational amortisation and depreciation 4.6 Restructuring, refinancing and transaction costs 38.9 Accounting for business combinations 23.0 Profit loss before tax 5.0 Taxation expense 2.7 Total profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent 2.3 Included within other revenue recognised by the Retail segment is 75.9m arising from transactions with the Underwriting segment.
Other revenue recognised by the Underwriting segment includes 0.4m arising from transactions with the Retail segment.
All other revenues presented arose from transactions with external customers.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 99 5.
Segmental reporting continued Segment performance continued Removal of trading for the period ended Consolidation Underwriting Retail 7 January 2014 Corporate adjustments Group year ended 31 December 2014 m m m m m m Net earned premiums 212.7 3.4 10.2 199.1 Other revenue 34.9 205.2 3.9 56.0 180.2 Investment and interest income 3.5 0.3 0.1 3.7 Net revenue 251.1 205.5 7.4 66.2 383.0 Net claims incurred 152.6 2.7 0.2 149.7 Operating expenses 61.1 135.6 2.5 10.9 75.3 129.8 Operating profit loss 37.4 69.9 2.2 10.9 9.3 103.5 Interest expense 67.7 Operational amortisation and depreciation 3.8 Restructuring, refinancing and transaction costs 9.7 Accounting for business combinations 23.7 Profit loss before tax 1.4 Taxation expense 7.0 Total loss attributable to the equity holders of the parent 8.4 Included within other revenue recognised by the Retail segment is 57.8m arising from transactions with the Underwriting segment.
Group operating profit for the full year ended 31 December 2014 would have been 105.7m if adjusted to include the seven days pre-acquisition trading, as detailed in note 35.
100 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Segmental reporting continued Segment assets and liabilities The tables below present the Groups identifiable segment assets and liabilities by reportable segment as at each reporting date.
Consolidation Underwriting Retail Corporate adjustments Group As at 31 December 2015 m m m m m Goodwill 1.9 468.1 470.0 Intangible assets 32.2 70.6 102.8 Investments in subsidiaries 1,269.3 1,269.3 1 Investments 4.2 4.2 Property and equipment 1.7 8.1 3.9 13.7 Deferred income tax asset 0.8 2.6 3.4 Reinsurance assets 547.8 0.3 547.5 Deferred acquisition costs 23.6 3.7 19.9 Prepayments 0.2 2.0 2.2 Insurance and other receivables 246.3 213.0 21.2 218.9 261.6 Financial assets at fair value 316.5 316.5 Cash and cash equivalents 89.2 51.8 11.2 152.2 Total assets 1,229.5 309.8 1,301.7 951.2 1,889.8 Loans and borrowings 295.7 295.7 Insurance contract liabilities 926.4 14.3 912.1 Insurance and other payables 111.0 265.5 4.9 225.5 155.9 Provisions 0.3 0.3 Deferred income tax liability 0.1 20.5 20.6 Current tax liabilities 0.4 1.7 0.1 2.0 Total liabilities 1,037.9 267.5 300.5 219.3 1,386.6 Total equity 191.6 42.3 1,001.2 731.9 503.2 1 Underwritings investments comprise the property Conquest House.
This is classified as property and equipment by the Group see note 18.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 101 5.
Segmental reporting continued Segment assets and liabilities continued Consolidation Underwriting Retail Corporate adjustments Group As at 31 December 2014 m m m m m Goodwill 1.9 468.1 470.0 Intangible assets 0.2 10.5 93.6 104.3 Investments in subsidiaries 1.0 1.0 1 Investments 3.7 3.7 Property and equipment 1.7 5.3 3.1 10.1 Deferred income tax asset 0.8 4.8 5.6 Reinsurance assets 428.1 1.6 426.5 Deferred acquisition costs 14.9 0.8 15.7 Prepayments 1.1 0.1 1.2 Insurance and other receivables 204.3 166.0 6.6 164.3 212.6 Financial assets at fair value 224.8 0.1 224.9 Cash and cash equivalents 64.2 38.4 20.8 123.4 Total assets 941.9 224.0 28.5 399.9 1,594.3 Preference shares 319.3 319.3 Loans and borrowings 403.6 403.6 Insurance contract liabilities 717.1 12.4 704.7 Insurance and other payables 113.6 197.5 5.8 170.0 146.9 Provisions 0.3 0.3 Deferred income tax liability 27.0 27.0 Current tax liabilities 3.1 3.3 6.4 Total liabilities 833.8 201.1 728.7 155.4 1,608.2 Total equity 108.1 22.9 700.2 555.3 13.9 6.
Insurance premiums Year ended 31 December 2015 year ended 31 December 2014 Reinsurers Reinsurers Gross share Net Gross share Net m m m m m m Written premiums 614.9 320.9 294.0 475.4 254.1 221.3 Unearned premiums reserve brought forward at start of year 248.8 133.3 115.5 Acquired through business combinations note 35 214.8 121.5 93.3 Unearned premiums reserve carried forward at end of year 320.4 166.8 153.6 248.8 133.3 115.5 Change in the unearned premiums reserve 71.6 33.5 38.1 34.0 11.8 22.2 Total earned premiums 543.3 287.4 255.9 441.4 242.3 199.1 Unearned premiums reserve acquired through business combinations in the prior year comprises amounts acquired upon acquisition of the HIG Group on 8 January 2014.
102 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
Other revenue year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Fees and commission 73.5 61.6 Ancillary product income 45.0 37.4 Premium finance interest 61.3 48.5 Reinsurance commissions 28.6 23.0 Other income 11.4 9.7 Total other revenue 219.8 180.2 8.
Investment and interest income year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Net fair value gains on financial assets at fair value 0.8 2.2 Other interest income 4.5 1.5 Total investment and interest income 5.3 3.7 9. claims incurred Year ended 31 December 2015 year ended 31 December 2014 Reinsurers Reinsurers Gross share Net Gross share Net m m m m m m Claims paid 336.1 177.8 158.3 286.7 137.8 148.9 Change in the provision for claims 134.2 86.7 47.5 80.9 70.9 10.0 Salvage and subrogation reserve movement 1.3 2.7 4.0 6.8 3.5 3.3 Other claims income 8.9 8.9 5.9 5.9 Total claims incurred 460.1 267.2 192.9 354.9 205.2 149.7 Current period 451.6 251.1 200.5 362.4 202.1 160.3 Prior periods 8.5 16.1 7.6 7.5 3.1 10.6 Total claims incurred 460.1 267.2 192.9 354.9 205.2 149.7 Current period claims relate to claim events that occurred in the current year.
Prior period claims relate to the reassessment of claim events that occurred in all previous years, including an enhancement in PPO reserving methodology during the year which increased gross and reinsurers share of claims incurred by 13.1m, with no impact on net claims incurred.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 103 10.
Other operating expenses year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Profit loss before taxation is stated after charging Buildings operating lease rentals 0.5 0.5 Employee benefits 56.3 51.4 Restructuring and transaction costs 2.4 9.7 Other administration and distribution costs 60.9 51.8 Other operating expenses before amortisation and depreciation 120.1 113.4 Amortisation of intangible assets note 17 25.3 26.5 Depreciation of property and equipment note 18 2.3 1.4 Total amortisation and depreciation 27.6 27.9 Total other operating expenses 147.7 141.3 11. auditor remuneration year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Fees for audit services Group 0.1 0.1 Subsidiaries 0.2 0.2 Total fees for audit services 0.3 0.3 Fees for non-audit services Corporate finance transactions 1.3 Other non-audit services 0.1 Total fees for non-audit services 1.4 Total auditor remuneration 1.7 0.3 Auditor remuneration for corporate finance transactions during the year relates to Reporting Accountant work performed as part of the IPO process.
0.2m of this has been recognised in profit or loss and the remaining 1.1m has been recognised as a deduction from share premium.
All other auditor remuneration has been recognised in profit or loss.
104 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12. employee benefits Included in other operating expenses were the following employee benefits: year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Salaries 50.1 46.1 Social security charges 4.6 4.3 Defined contribution pension plan costs 1.1 1.0 Share based payment charge 0.5 Total employee benefits 56.3 51.4 Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group in an independently administered fund.
The defined contribution pension plan costs for the year represent contributions payable by the Group to the fund.
Staff numbers including Directors The average number of full-time equivalent staff was as follows: year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Operational staff 1,747 1,550 Support staff 163 136 Total staff 1,910 1,686 Key management personnel compensation Key management personnel compensation comprised the following: year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Short-term employee benefits 4.0 5.4 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.1 Total key management personnel compensation 4.2 5.5 Directors emoluments The aggregate Directors emoluments are disclosed in note 4 of the Parent Company Financial Statements.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 105 13.
Finance costs year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Interest on Senior Secured Notes 27.1 31.1 Interest on Term Loan 1.1 Non-cash amortisation of loans and borrowings 1.8 1.9 Preference share dividends 23.7 33.7 Other interest expense 0.9 1.0 Total interest expense 54.6 67.7 Refinancing costs 36.5 Total finance costs 91.1 67.7 Non-cash amortisation of loans and borrowings comprises amortisation of directly attributable transaction costs and applicable discounts, recognised under the effective interest method.
Refinancing costs incurred relate to the early redemption of the Senior Secured Notes in 2015, see note 26.
They include early redemption charges and the write off of remaining directly attributable transaction costs and applicable discounts.
On 12 August 2015, as part of the reorganisation, the preference shares and accrued dividends thereon were converted into Ordinary Shares.
Details on the conversion and the dividends incurred on the preference shares, recognised under the effective interest method, are described in note 25.
14. taxation expense year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Current tax Corporation tax on profits for the year 7.0 10.1 Adjustments for prior years 0.4 Current taxation expense 7.0 10.5 Deferred tax Deferred taxation movement relating to temporary differences 3.6 3.1 Impact of change in the UK Corporation tax rate 0.8 0.5 Adjustments for prior years 0.1 0.1 Deferred taxation expense 4.3 3.5 Total taxation expense 2.7 7.0 106 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14. taxation expense continued Factors affecting total taxation expense are: year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Profit loss before tax 5.0 1.4 Applicable tax charge at the statutory tax rate 20.25% 2014: 0% : 1.0 Impact of different tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 1.7 0.4 Non-taxable income 0.7 0.3 Expenses and provisions not deductible for tax purposes 4.9 6.8 Impact of change in the UK Corporation tax rate 0.8 0.5 Adjustment relating to prior periods 0.1 0.5 Deferred income tax not recognised in profit or loss 0.1 0.1 Total taxation expense 2.7 7.0 The UK Corporation tax rate applicable to the Company was 20.25% for the year ended 31 December 2015 year ended 31December 2014 Jersey Corporation tax rate applicable to HIG H : 0%.
Factors affecting future tax charges Effective from 1 April 2015, the UK Corporation tax rate changed from 21% to 20%.
It will further change to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020.
The Gibraltar rate of tax has remained at 10% and is expected to remain constant for the foreseeable future.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets Deferred income tax assets of 1.3m have not been recognised by the Group as at 31 December 2015 in respect of tax losses 31 December 2014: 1.4m.
These tax losses do not expire under current tax legislation and deferred income tax assets have not been recognised because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise these tax losses.
Unrecognised deferred income tax liabilities As at 31 December 2015 there were no deferred income tax liabilities that have not been recognised by the Group 31December 2014: nil.
15. earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit loss attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
Adjusted basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company adjusted for restructuring, refinancing and transaction costs, preference share dividends and the impact of accounting for business combinations by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
The Directors believe this figure provides a better indication of operating performance.
The share awards described in note 29 have an inconsequential dilutive potential and therefore the basic and adjusted earnings per share equals the basic and adjusted diluted earnings per share respectively.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 107 15. earnings per share continued year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Profit loss attributable to the equity holders of the parent in m 2.3 8.4 Basic weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 468,122,379 378,482,926 Basic and diluted earnings per share 0.5p 2.2 p year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Profit loss attributable to the equity holders of the parent in m 2.3 8.4 Adjusted for in m : Restructuring, refinancing and transaction costs 38.9 9.7 Preference share dividends 23.7 33.7 Impact of accounting for business combinations on finance costs 0.7 1.1 Non-operational amortisation 23.0 24.2 Other effects of accounting for business combinations 0.4 Tax effect of the above adjusting items 12.4 3.9 Total adjusted profit after tax in m 76.2 56.0 Basic weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 468,122,379 378,482,926 Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share 16.3p 14.8p 16.
Goodwill Goodwill at the period end was allocated as follows: CGU Underwriting Retail Total Cost m m m As at 1 January 2014 Additions 374.8 95.2 470.0 As at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015 374.8 95.2 470.0 The goodwill of 470.0m arose from the acquisition of the HIG Group on 8 January 2014, the calculation of which is in note 35.
Goodwill from this acquisition was allocated between the Groups two CGUs, Underwriting and Retail.
The apportionment was conducted on the basis of expected benefits to be derived from the acquisition.
The recoverable amount of the two CGUs has been determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations use pretax cash flow projections based on the most recent three year financial budgets approved by management, discounted to the Groups pre-tax discount rate of 8.23% 31 December 2014: 9.41%.
Management determine financial budgets based on past performance and their expectations for market and business development.
Cash flows beyond the budget period are extrapolated using growth rates declining to the forecast long-term economic terminal growth rate of 2%.
The terminal growth rate does not exceed the long-term average past growth rate for the insurance business in which the CGUs operate.
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations are those regarding growth rates and expected changes in pricing and expenses incurred.
Management estimates growth rates and changes in pricing based on past practices and expected future changes in the market.
As the recoverable amount of each CGU is significantly higher than the cumulative total of allocated goodwill and the carrying value of the CGUs assets, the allocated goodwill is not deemed to be impaired.
108 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17.
Intangible assets Customer Work in relationships Brands Software progress Total m m m m m Cost As at 1 January 2014 Acquired through business combinations note 35 64.0 13.0 45.2 1.5 123.7 Additions 1.8 5.3 7.1 Transfers 0.2 0.2 As at 31 December 2014 64.0 13.0 47.2 6.6 130.8 Accumulated amortisation As at 1 January 2014 Amortisation for the year 12.6 1.6 12.3 26.5 As at 31 December 2014 12.6 1.6 12.3 26.5 Net book value as at 31 December 2014 51.4 11.4 34.9 6.6 104.3 Cost As at 1 January 2015 64.0 13.0 47.2 6.6 130.8 Additions 0.4 23.4 23.8 Transfers 9.8 9.8 As at 31 December 2015 64.0 13.0 57.4 20.2 154.6 Accumulated amortisation As at 1 January 2015 12.6 1.6 12.3 26.5 Amortisation for the year 12.8 1.6 10.9 25.3 As at 31 December 2015 25.4 3.2 23.2 51.8 Net book value as at 31 December 2015 38.6 9.8 34.2 20.2 102.8 Intangible assets acquired through business combinations in the prior year comprise intangible assets acquired upon acquisition of the HIG Group on 8 January 2014.
Work in progress consists of costs of development for software that is being produced for a specific purpose but has not yet reached a state where it is ready for its intended use.
Software held as at 31 December 2015 includes internally generated software carried at 8.8m 31 December 2014: 6.2m.
Software held as at 31 December 2015 has a remaining amortisation period of up to seven years 31 December 2014: up to six years.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 109 18.
Property and equipment Property and Fixtures, leasehold Computer fittings and Work in Property improvements equipment equipment progress Total m m m m m m Cost or valuation As at 1 January 2014 Acquired through business combinations note 35 5.3 0.9 1.7 0.6 0.7 9.2 Additions 0.6 1.2 0.5 2.3 Transfers 0.6 0.6 As at 31 December 2014 5.3 2.1 2.9 1.1 0.1 11.5 Accumulated depreciation As at 1 January 2014 Charge for the year 0.1 0.2 0.8 0.3 1.4 As at 31 December 2014 0.1 0.2 0.8 0.3 1.4 Net book value as at 31 December 2014 5.2 1.9 2.1 0.8 0.1 10.1 Cost or valuation As at 1 January 2015 5.3 2.1 2.9 1.1 0.1 11.5 Revaluations 0.6 0.6 Additions 0.6 1.0 0.5 3.2 5.3 Transfers 0.8 2.3 0.2 3.3 Disposals 0.2 0.2 0.4 As at 31 December 2015 5.9 3.5 6.0 1.6 17.0 Accumulated depreciation As at 1 January 2015 0.1 0.2 0.8 0.3 1.4 Charge for the year 0.3 1.5 0.5 2.3 Revaluations 0.1 0.1 Disposals 0.2 0.1 0.3 As at 31 December 2015 0.5 2.1 0.7 3.3 Net book value as at 31 December 2015 5.9 3.0 3.9 0.9 13.7 Property and equipment acquired through business combinations in the prior year comprise property and equipment acquired upon acquisition of the HIG Group on 8 January 2014.
110 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Property and equipment continued The Groups property comprises the freehold buildings at The Old Bank, Cannon Lane, Gibraltar and Conquest House, Bexhillon-Sea, UK.
Property is held at the revalued amount which is assessed annually using Level 3 inputs as defined in note 2.
Valuations are performed by independent valuation experts every three years.
The Old Bank was valued by an independent valuation expert during 2013 according to the market value that would be attributed to it if it were to be sold to a willing buyer on an arms-length basis.
No change in value was considered necessary during the year ended 31 December 2015 year ended 31 December 2014: no change in value considered necessary.
Conquest House was valued by an independent valuation expert during 2015 with reference to the value of leasing a building of a similar size and with comparable facilities given the lack of similar buildings within the local area from which to determine a potential sale value.
This resulted in the upward revaluation of Conquest House by 0.7m during the year ended 31 December 2015 year ended 31 December 2014: nil.
In these latest valuations, total property was valued at 5.9m.
It is not considered that the current total value of property is materially different from these valuations.
If carried at cost, property would be held at 5.2m 31 December 2014: 5.2m.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax asset As at 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Brought forward at start of year 5.6 Acquired through business combinations note 35 5.0 Movement in year 2.2 0.6 Carried forward at end of year 3.4 5.6 Accelerated capital allowances 0.7 0.8 Insurance provisions 0.2 0.5 Deferred acquisition costs 2.4 4.3 Share based payments 0.1 Deferred income tax asset at end of year 3.4 5.6 Deferred income tax liability As at 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Brought forward at start of year 27.0 Acquired through business combinations note 35 29.9 Movement in year 6.4 2.9 Carried forward at end of year 20.6 27.0 Intangible assets 12.8 17.6 Deferred acquisition costs 3.7 5.8 Insurance provisions 4.0 3.6 Revaluation of property 0.1 Deferred income tax liability at end of year 20.6 27.0 Deferred income tax asset and liability acquired through business combinations in the prior year comprise amounts acquired upon acquisition of the HIG Group on 8 January 2014.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 111 19.
Deferred income tax continued Movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year Acquired through As at business As at 1 January combinations Recognised in 31 December 2014 note 35 profit or loss 2014 m m m m Deferred income tax asset Accelerated capital allowances 1.0 0.2 0.8 Insurance provisions 0.5 0.5 Deferred acquisition costs 3.5 0.8 4.3 Total deferred income tax asset 5.0 0.6 5.6 Deferred income tax liability Intangible assets 22.6 5.0 17.6 Deferred acquisition costs 2.9 2.9 5.8 Insurance provisions 4.4 0.8 3.6 Total deferred income tax liability 29.9 2.9 27.0 Recognised As at in other As at 1 January comprehensive Recognised in 31 December 2015 income profit or loss 2015 m m m m Deferred income tax asset Accelerated capital allowances 0.8 0.1 0.7 Insurance provisions 0.5 0.3 0.2 Deferred acquisition costs 4.3 1.9 2.4 Share based payments 0.1 0.1 Total deferred income tax asset 5.6 2.2 3.4 Deferred income tax liability Intangible assets 17.6 4.8 12.8 Deferred acquisition costs 5.8 2.1 3.7 Insurance provisions 3.6 0.4 4.0 Revaluation of property 0.1 0.1 Total deferred income tax liability 27.0 0.1 6.5 20.6 112 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities claims development As at 31 December 2015 As at 31 December 2014 Reinsurers Reinsurers Gross share Net Gross share Net m m m m m m Claims reported and adjustments to claims reported 430.6 254.9 175.7 334.8 204.8 130.0 Claims incurred but not reported IBNR 161.1 125.8 35.3 121.1 88.4 32.7 Outstanding claims liabilities 591.7 380.7 211.0 455.9 293.2 162.7 Unearned premiums reserve 320.4 166.8 153.6 248.8 133.3 115.5 Total insurance contract liabilities 912.1 547.5 364.6 704.7 426.5 278.2 Given the uncertainty in establishing the outstanding claims liabilities, it is likely that the final outcome will be different from the original liability established.
Claims development refers to the financial adjustment in the current accounting period relating to claims incurred in previous accounting periods because of new and more up to date information that has become available and to reflect changes in inflation.
The timing of the settlements for the net and gross claims liabilities are shown in note 24.
The following table shows the development of the originally estimated gross ultimate claims liabilities relative to the current estimates of gross ultimate claims liabilities, both net of salvage and subrogation recoveries.
The development is presented for each of the most recent five accident periods and all historic periods prior to these from incorporation of the Groups underwriter 2002 i. e. including accident periods prior to the creation of the Group, as estimated at each reporting date.
It includes the effect of an enhancement in PPO reserving methodology during the year which increased gross and reinsurers share of outstanding claims liabilities by 13.1m, with no impact on the net position.
The table also shows a reconciliation of the gross outstanding claims liabilities, net of salvage and subrogation recoveries, to the gross outstanding claims liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015.
The information is presented on an accident period basis.
The fair value acquisition adjustment relates to accounting for the acquisition of the HIG Group on 8 January 2014. year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December Prior periods 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total m m m m m m m Development At end of current period 765.2 172.6 245.8 316.3 375.2 460.6 2,335.7 One period earlier 762.8 170.4 250.2 308.8 374.4 1,866.6 Two periods earlier 753.4 179.1 256.6 310.7 1,499.8 Three periods earlier 750.6 176.3 242.9 1,169.8 Four periods earlier 740.3 169.1 909.4 Payments to date 727.0 153.8 200.9 233.9 258.9 187.2 1,761.7 Gross outstanding claims liabilities, net of salvage and subrogation recoveries 38.2 18.8 44.9 82.4 116.3 273.4 574.0 Reconciliation to gross outstanding claims liabilities Anticipated salvage and subrogation recoveries 21.1 Fair value acquisition adjustment 3.4 Gross outstanding claims liabilities 591.7 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 113 20.
Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued claims development continued The following table shows the development of the outstanding claims liabilities net of salvage and subrogation recoveries as before but on a net basis, together with a reconciliation of these to the gross outstanding claims liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015. year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December Prior periods 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total m m m m m m m Development At end of current period 641.1 96.4 107.5 129.5 171.4 209.5 1,355.4 One period earlier 640.9 96.9 111.4 135.1 169.3 1,153.6 Two periods earlier 637.8 99.4 117.2 140.7 995.1 Three periods earlier 642.3 100.4 119.7 862.4 Four periods earlier 644.4 99.4 743.8 Payments to date 633.3 91.3 95.9 108.9 129.4 93.8 1,152.6 Net outstanding claims liabilities, net of salvage and subrogation recoveries 7.8 5.1 11.6 20.6 42.0 115.7 202.8 Reconciliation to net outstanding claims liabilities Anticipated salvage and subrogation recoveries 21.1 Reinsurers share of salvage and subrogation recoveries 10.3 Fair value acquisition adjustment 2.6 Net outstanding claims liabilities 211.0 Reinsurers share of outstanding claims liabilities 380.7 Gross outstanding claims liabilities 591.7 Conditions and trends that have affected the development of the liabilities in the past may, or may not, occur in the future, and accordingly, conclusions about future results may not necessarily be derived from the information presented in the tables above.
114 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued Movements in reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities As at 31 December 2015 As at 31 December 2014 Reinsurers Reinsurers Gross share Net Gross share Net m m m m m m Outstanding claims liabilities brought forward at start of year 455.9 293.2 162.7 Acquired through business combinations note 35 371.9 219.6 152.3 Claims paid 336.1 177.8 158.3 286.7 137.8 148.9 Movement in liabilities 471.9 265.3 206.6 370.7 211.4 159.3 Outstanding claims liabilities carried forward at end of year 591.7 380.7 211.0 455.9 293.2 162.7 Unearned premiums reserve brought forward at start of year 248.8 133.3 115.5 Acquired through business combinations note 35 214.8 121.5 93.3 Deferral in period 614.9 320.9 294.0 475.4 254.1 221.3 Release in period 543.3 287.4 255.9 441.4 242.3 199.1 Unearned premiums reserve carried forward at end of year 320.4 166.8 153.6 248.8 133.3 115.5 Total insurance contracts liabilities 912.1 547.5 364.6 704.7 426.5 278.2 Outstanding claims liabilities and unearned premiums reserve acquired through business combinations in the prior year comprise amounts acquired upon acquisition of the HIG Group on 8 January 2014.
Movement in liabilities comprises changes in outstanding claims liabilities relating to claim events in previous periods and the expected cost of current year claims.
All insurance contracts are annual policies and as such the unearned premiums reserve is released within 12 months after the reporting date.
Process for estimating ultimate claims liability The actuarial best estimate of outstanding claims includes the estimate of expenses to be incurred in settling claims and a deduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries.
The Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure that it has appropriate information regarding the claims exposures.
However, given the uncertainty in establishing claims provisions, it is likely that the final outcome will prove to be different from the original liability established.
In calculating the estimated cost of unpaid claims the Group uses a variety of estimation techniques, generally based upon statistical analysis of historic experience, which assumes that the development pattern of the current claims will be consistent with past experience.
A component of these estimation techniques is the estimation of the cost of notified but not paid claims.
In estimating the cost of these, the Group has regard to the claim circumstances as reported, any information available from loss adjusters and information on the cost of settling claims with similar characteristics in previous years.
Where possible the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate the required level of claims liabilities.
This assists in giving greater understanding of the trends inherent in the data being projected.
The projections given by the various methodologies also assist in setting the range of possible outcomes.
The most appropriate estimation technique is selected taking into account the characteristics of the business class and the extent of the development of each accident year.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 115 20.
Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued Process for estimating ultimate claims liability continued Large claims, including PPOs, impacting each relevant business class are generally assessed separately, being measured on a case by case basis or projected separately in order to allow for the possible distortive effect of the development and incidence of these large claims.
Allowance is made for changes or uncertainties which may create distortions in the underlying statistics or which might cause the cost of unsettled claims to increase or reduce when compared with the cost of previously settled claims, including: Changes in Group processes which might accelerate the development and or recording of paid or incurred claims compared with the statistics from previous years: Changes in the legal environment: The effect of inflation: Changes in the mix of business: The impact of large losses: and Movements in industry benchmarks.
The estimation of claims IBNR is generally subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than the estimation of the cost of settling claims already notified to the Group, where information about the claim event is available.
Classes of business where the IBNR proportion of the total outstanding claims liabilities is high will typically display greater variations between the initial estimates and the final outcomes because of the greater degree of difficulty of estimating those reserves.
Classes of business where claims are typically reported relatively quickly after the claim event will tend to display lower levels of volatility.
Short-tail claims are normally reported soon after the incident and are generally settled within months following the reported incident.
Hence any development on short-tail claims is normally limited to the period the incident occurred and the following period.
For long-tail claims it can be more than a period before a claim is reported and several periods before it is settled, hence the original estimation involves greater uncertainty and so inherently there is more likely to be greater disparity between the original and current estimates.
It is for these long-tail claims that the development of the outstanding claims liability generally occurs over a number of periods.
Sensitivity of recognised amounts to changes in assumptions The following table sets out the adverse impact on profit after tax and total equity that would result from a 1% worsening in the loss ratio net of reinsurance used for each accident year for which material amounts remain outstanding on a net basis.
Deferred acquisition costs year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Deferred acquisition costs brought forward at start of year 15.7 Acquired through business combinations note 35 2.5 Additions 41.4 32.7 Recognition of acquisition costs in profit or loss 37.2 19.5 Deferred acquisition costs carried forward at end of year 19.9 15.7 Deferred acquisition costs acquired through business combinations in the prior year comprise deferred acquisition costs acquired upon acquisition of the HIG Group on 8 January 2014.
116 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22.
Insurance and other receivables As at 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Insurance receivables 206.6 164.8 Salvage and subrogation recoveries 21.1 19.8 Reinsurance receivables 11.1 16.9 Interest receivable 4.6 3.4 Other receivables 18.2 7.7 Total insurance and other receivables 261.6 212.6 The table below analyses insurance and other receivables between current and overdue as well as an analysis of any provisions held.
The current portion comprises balances that are normally settled within 12 months.
Overdue amounts comprise all amounts which remain uncollected after the date by which they were contractually due to be paid in full.
Insurance Net insurance and other Provision for and other receivables impairment receivables m m m As at 31 December 2015 Current 262.5 0.9 261.6 Overdue 3.5 3.5 Total 266.0 4.4 261.6 As at 31 December 2014 Current 213.0 0.4 212.6 Overdue 3.3 3.3 Total 216.3 3.7 212.6 Movements on the Groups provision for impairment are as follows: As at 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Provision for impairment brought forward at start of year 3.7 Acquired through business combinations note 35 5.5 Utilised during the year 2.4 4.4 Impairments recognised during the year 3.1 2.6 Total provision for impairment carried forward at end of year 4.4 3.7 Provisions acquired through business combinations in the prior year comprise provisions assumed upon acquisition of the HIG Group on 8 January 2014.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 117 23. cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Cash at bank and in hand 47.5 48.9 Money market funds 104.7 74.5 Total cash and cash equivalents 152.2 123.4 The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheet is the same as that used for the purposes of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows as there are no bank overdrafts used which are repayable upon demand.
Cash and cash equivalents include balances of 6.8m 31 December 2014: 5.5m relating to cash and cash equivalents held on an agency basis on behalf of other insurers.
Financial instruments, capital management and related disclosures Financial assets and liabilities The Groups financial instruments can be analysed as follows: at amortised cost The table below analyses financial instruments carried at amortised cost, by balance sheet classification.
As at 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Financial assets Insurance and other receivables 261.6 212.6 Cash and cash equivalents 152.2 123.4 Total financial assets at amortised cost 413.8 336.0 Financial liabilities Senior Secured Notes 403.6 Preference shares 319.3 Term Loan 295.7 Insurance and other payables 155.9 146.9 Total financial liabilities at amortised cost 451.6 869.8 The fair value of the Senior Secured Notes as at 31 December 2014 was 425.8m Level 1 basis as defined in note 2.
The carrying value of all other financial instruments carried at amortised cost at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 is considered to be an approximation of fair value.
118 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 24.
Financial instruments, capital management and related disclosures continued at fair value The table below analyses financial assets carried at fair value by valuation method.
The different valuation levels have been defined in note 2.
The level in which financial assets at fair value have been classified in their entirety is determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
As at 31 December 2015 As at 31 December 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Total m m m m m m Fair value through profit or loss Debt securities 2.9 159.0 161.9 Investment funds 51.9 51.9 63.0 63.0 Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 51.9 51.9 2.9 222.0 224.9 Available for sale Debt securities 264.6 264.6 Total available for sale financial assets 264.6 264.6 Total financial assets at fair value 316.5 316.5 2.9 222.0 224.9 On 1 January 2015, the Group undertook a significant change in investment strategy and realigned its investment portfolio following the Goldman Sachs investment.
Debt security investments have been classified as available for sale as this reflects the Groups longer term investment strategy.
The table below analyses the movement in financial assets carried at fair value by classification.
Investment Debt funds securities Total m m m As at 1 January 2014 Additions through business combinations note 35 62.5 109.0 171.5 Net increases to the fair value of assets held recognised in profit or loss 0.4 1.8 2.2 Net additions to assets held 0.1 51.1 51.2 As at 31 December 2014 and 1 January 2015 63.0 161.9 224.9 Net increases decreases to the fair value of assets held recognised in profit or loss 1.0 0.2 0.8 Net decreases to the fair value of assets held recognised in other comprehensive income 1.3 1.3 Net additions disposals to assets held 12.1 104.2 92.1 As at 31 December 2015 51.9 264.6 316.5 Additions through business combinations in the prior year comprise assets acquired upon acquisition of the HIG Group on 8January 2014.
Investment funds comprise funds with investments in debt securities, equities, derivatives and cash and cash equivalents.
The Groups investment in available for sale financial assets is mainly comprised of fixed income debt securities.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 119 24.
Financial instruments, capital management and related disclosures continued Objectives, policies and procedures for managing financial risks The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets and liabilities.
The key financial risk is that the proceeds from financial assets are not sufficient to fund the obligations arising from liabilities as they fall due.
The most important components of financial risk for the Group are credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk.
credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will be unable to pay amounts in full when due.
The main areas where the Group is exposed to credit risk are reinsurance assets, financial assets and cash and cash equivalents.
The Group manages its exposure to credit risk on high liquidity investments by pursuing a strategy whereby all investments in money market funds have credit ratings of AA or above.
The credit ratings of the Groups banks are monitored on a regular basis and where there is adverse movement appropriate action would be determined by the Risk Committee.
Investment funds and debt securities are assessed by management to ensure that the level of credit risk is acceptable, ratings are sufficiently strong and that the investment is in line with the Groups investment policy.
The Standard & Poors or equivalent credit rating of the investment managers and banks with which the Group has significant credit risk, in relation to its investments in cash and cash equivalents and financial assets at fair value, were as follows: Debt Investment Cash and cash securities funds equivalents Total m m m m As at 31 December 2015 AAA or equivalent 64.1 4.1 104.7 172.9 AA or equivalent 68.3 8.6 24.3 101.2 A or equivalent 42.3 33.1 23.2 98.6 BBB or equivalent 89.9 1.2 88.7 Less than BBB or equivalent or unrated 7.3 7.3 Total 264.6 51.9 152.2 468.7 As at 31 December 2014 AAA or equivalent 19.4 3.6 74.5 97.5 AA or equivalent 9.9 8.3 15.8 34.0 A or equivalent 46.0 12.1 33.1 91.2 BBB or equivalent 71.8 10.3 82.1 Less than BBB or equivalent or unrated 14.8 28.7 43.5 Total 161.9 63.0 123.4 348.3 The Standard & Poors or equivalent credit ratings of the Groups reinsurers are analysed below: As at 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m AA or equivalent 337.2 198.8 A or equivalent 210.3 227.7 Total reinsurance assets 547.5 426.5 The Group has investment guidelines that restrict the amount of the investment portfolio that can be placed with a single counterparty.
120 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 24.
Financial instruments, capital management and related disclosures continued credit risk continued The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2015 is 1,277.8m 31 December 2014: 987.4m, being the carrying value of insurance and other receivables, reinsurance assets, financial assets and cash and cash equivalents.
Theexposure is not hedged by the use of derivatives or similar instruments.
Insurance receivables are monitored closely with aview to minimising the collection period of those items.
The exposure to bad debt expense relates to policyholder debt charged to profit or loss and the value of past due financial assets, which has not resulted in impairment in either the current orprior period.
There were no other impairments in either the current or prior period.
The Groups insurance receivables are an aggregation of small receivables and the Group uses multiple reinsurance providers to ensure that there are no significant concentrations of credit risk in relation to reinsurance assets.
Since other assets such as cash and cash equivalents and financial assets at fair value are well diversified, the Directors believe that the Group does not hold any significant concentrations of risk.
Market risk The only significant market risk the Group is exposed to is interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk is defined by the Group as the impact of unfavourable movements in market interest rates which consequently could produce adverse results on the values of financial assets and liabilities, or the future cash flows from them.
This is only applicable to cash and cash equivalents, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and the loans and borrowings issued by the Group.
The assets held as available for sale mainly comprised fixed income securities and as such, movements in market interest rates will not affect the future cash flows arising from these assets.
Cash and cash equivalents are held in current accounts or in short-term money market instruments.
These are generally less than 60 days in duration, considerably reducing sensitivity to significant movements in interest rates compared to longer duration assets.
The Directors consider that the exposure to interest rate risk of cash and cash equivalents balances is immaterial for the purposes of sensitivity analysis.
The carrying value of the Groups financial assets at fair value are more susceptible to movements in interest rates.
Loans and borrowings are also exposed to movements in interest rates, incurring interest at rates pegged to LIBOR.
For the year ended 31 December 2015 a 1% increase in interest rates would have reduced profit after tax by 1.0m 31December 2014: increased profit after tax by 0.7m.
A 1% increase in interest rates could also reduce the fair value of available for sale financial assets, and therefore reduce equity by approximately 6.8m 31 December 2014: nil.
However, this effect would reverse over the remaining future life of the securities and would have no impact on the expected cash flows or profit after tax.
The Group does not use derivatives or similar instruments to mitigate exposure therefore a change in interest rates at the end of the reporting period would not further affect profit or loss.
liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may not be available to meet obligations when they fall due.
The Group maintains significant holdings in liquid funds to mitigate this risk.
The Group makes use of regular forecasts to monitor and control its cash flow and working capital requirements.
Financial liabilities are settled in line with agreed payment terms and managed in accordance with cash availability and inflow expectations.
All financial liabilities except loans and borrowings, the associated interest and an amount due to a reinsurer within insurance and other payables see note 27 are due within 12 months.
Loans and borrowings are secured for a five year term and as at 31 December 2015 are due for repayment in 2020 31 December 2014: repayment in 2019 and 2020.
The assets backing the insurance contract and other short-term liabilities held by the Group are considered to be more liquid than the related liabilities, and the Group is in a net current asset position.
As part of the reorganisation on 12 August 2015 detailed in note 30, all of the Groups 11.5% and 16.0% preference shares, including dividends and interest accrued thereon, were converted into equity.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 121 24.
Financial instruments, capital management and related disclosures continued The following table indicates the expected timing of net cash outflows resulting from insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance assets at the year end: 0-1 year 1-2 years Over 2 years Total m m m m As at 31 December 2015 Outstanding claims liabilities 165.3 66.7 359.7 591.7 Unearned premiums provision 131.3 100.1 89.0 320.4 Less reinsurance assets 145.7 83.1 318.7 547.5 Net cash outflows 150.9 83.7 130.0 364.6 As at 31 December 2014 Outstanding claims liabilities 150.7 98.9 206.3 455.9 Unearned premiums provision 102.0 77.7 69.1 248.8 Less reinsurance assets 136.3 100.0 190.2 426.5 Net cash outflows 116.4 76.6 85.2 278.2 The gross contractual undiscounted cash flows of loans and borrowings, including interest payments, assuming LIBOR stays constant, fall due as follows: 0-1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years Over 5 years Total m m m m m As at 31 December 2015 Term Loan 20.7 20.2 308.6 349.5 Total 20.7 20.2 308.6 349.5 As at 31 December 2014 Senior Secured Notes 31.2 31.2 243.2 287.3 592.9 Preference shares 319.3 319.3 Total 31.2 31.2 243.2 606.6 912.2 Actual cash flows of loans and borrowings will vary to the extent that LIBOR increases and decreases in these time periods.
Objectives, policies and procedures for managing capital The Groups capital is primarily made up of total equity see note 30 and loans and borrowings see note 26.
As at 31December 2014, the Groups capital also included preference shares issued by the Group on 8 January 2014 which were subsequently converted into equity see note 25.
The Directors regularly review the amount of capital of the Group through monitoring of the financial performance of its subsidiaries.
Regular cash flow forecasts are produced to accurately predict when liabilities will fall due and trends in these forecasts are used to aid the prediction of future cash flows.
The Groups subsidiary AICL, as an insurance company, is subject to the provisions of the solvency regulations set by the FSC in Gibraltar.
It exceeded the minimum requirements for capital at all times since AICL has been part of the Group.
122 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 24.
Financial instruments, capital management and related disclosures continued Objectives, policies and procedures for managing capital continued The table below shows the minimum required capital for AICL and the regulatory capital held against it.
As at 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Regulatory capital held Admissible Assets 191.4 107.9 Minimum regulatory capital Required Minimum Margin 51.3 40.2 Excess 140.1 67.7 The Groups subsidiary HISL, as an insurance intermediary in the UK, is also subject to a minimum capital requirement under Financial Conduct Authority FCA rules: it exceeded that minimum capital requirement at all times during the year.
Preference shares As at 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m 16.0% preference shares and accrued dividends 40.5 11.5% preference shares and accrued dividends 278.8 Total preference shares 319.3 Current Non-current 319.3 Total preference shares 319.3 On 8 January 2014, the HIG H Group authorised and issued: 35,000,000 cumulative redeemable 0.01 preference shares at 1.00 each the paid up amount with a fixed dividend rate of 16.0% on the paid up amount: and 250,641,360 cumulative redeemable 0.01 preference shares at 1.00 each, issued in one of the Companys subsidiaries, HIG I, with a fixed dividend rate of 11.5% on the paid up amount.
On 12 August 2015, as part of the reorganisation, all preference shares, including dividends and interest accrued thereon, amounting to 343.0m, were converted into Ordinary Shares see note 1.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 123 26. loans and borrowings As at 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m 8% Senior Secured Fixed Rate Notes due 2020 258.9 LIBOR 6% Senior Secured Floating Rate Notes due 2019 144.7 Term Loan 295.7 Total loans and borrowings 295.7 403.6 Current 9.1 Non-current 286.6 403.6 Total loans and borrowings 295.7 403.6 The amounts in the table reflect the fair value of the loans and borrowings issued by the Group at the time of issue, including any applicable discounts, less any directly attributable transaction costs.
Interest on loans and borrowings is accrued in the Consolidated Balance Sheet using the effective interest method and is recognised in insurance and other payables see note 27. loan facility agreement On 12 August 2015, the Group entered into a 320.0m five year committed loan facility agreement with a group of financial institutions comprising a 300.0m Term Loan and a 20.0m Revolving Loan Facility.
The Term Loan is repayable in full in five years from the date of admission to the London Stock Exchange on 15 October 2015, with instalment repayments due up to the amount of any dividend paid limited to 10.0m per annum.
The Term Loan, which was fully drawn down on 25 November 2015, incurs interest at LIBOR plus a variable margin linked to net debt leverage multiple, initially set at 2.75%.
The Revolving Loan Facility remained undrawn as at 31 December 2015.
The Term Loan is unsecured and the Group is subject to certain financial covenants of which the first testing date will be as at 30 June 2016.
Any repayments rank at least pari passu with the claims of all its other unsecured and unsubordinated creditors, except for obligations mandatorily preferred by law applying to companies generally.
Under the agreement, certain entities in the Group, including the Company, are obligors to the agreement, either by virtue of being a borrower or a guarantor to the agreement: namely, HIG H, Hastings Insurance Group Investment plc HIG I, HIG F, HIG, Advantage Global Holdings Limited AGH, Hastings Holdings Limited HHL, Hastings UK Limited HUK and Hastings Insurance Services Limited HISL.
Senior Secured notes On 21 October 2013, the HIG H Group issued 416.5m of Senior Secured Notes at 415.0m and entered into a 20.0m multi-currency Revolving Credit Facility in order to part fund the acquisition of HIG see note 35.
The Senior Secured Notes were redeemed in full and the Revolving Credit Facility was terminated in the year ended 31 December 2015 and at redemption, the liability, together with the related security interests granted over certain assets of some of the subsidiaries were discharged in full.
124 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27.
Insurance and other payables As at 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Amounts owed to reinsurers 72.2 70.2 Reinsurers share of salvage and subrogation recoveries 10.3 13.0 Insurance premium tax 13.8 7.7 Accrued interest 1.1 5.3 Accrued expenses 31.1 23.0 Deferred income 8.7 12.6 Other payables 18.7 15.1 Total insurance and other payables 155.9 146.9 Current 147.8 121.5 Non-current 8.1 25.4 Total insurance and other payables 155.9 146.9 Insurance and other payables are unsecured, non-interest-bearing and are normally settled within 12 months.
The balance has not been discounted because the effect of the time value of money is not material.
The carrying amount of payables is a reasonable approximation of the fair value of the liabilities because of the short-term nature of the liabilities.
Provisions Lease Total commitments Dilapidations provisions m m m As at 1 January 2014 Acquired through business combinations note 35 0.8 0.1 0.9 Utilised in the year 0.6 0.6 As at 31 December 2014 and 1 January 2015 0.2 0.1 0.3 Recognised in the year 0.3 0.3 Written off in the year 0.2 0.1 0.3 As at 31 December 2015 0.3 0.3 Provisions acquired through business combinations in the prior year comprise provisions assumed upon acquisition of the HIG Group on 8 January 2014.
Share based payments On 28 September 2015, certain key management personnel were granted share awards conditional upon the Company listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The awards are for a fixed cash value of 5.9m, payable in Ordinary Shares at or shortly before 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018 based on the market value of the Companys Ordinary Shares at that date and will be Ordinary Shares of the same class as those Ordinary Shares listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The awards have no performance conditions attached, other than the requirement for the members to remain in service until vesting, not be subject to gross misconduct and other similar exceptions.
In the event that the Board determines that the market price of Ordinary Shares has fallen materially since the grant of the awards, the Board may reduce the value of the awards at the time that they become payable.
The estimated fair value of the awards on the grant date, taking into account the fixed price of the award and the period to vesting was 4.9m.
The awards are classified as equity settled share based payments and as at 31 December 2015, no awards had vested.
A share based payments expense of 0.5m was recognised in the year with a corresponding credit to retained earnings year ended 31 December 2014: nil.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 125 30.
Share capital and reserves Share Share Merger Other Retained Total capital premium reserve reserves earnings equity m m m m m m As at 1 January 2014 7.6 749.4 756.0 6.5 5.5 Total loss attributable to the equity holders of the parent 8.4 8.4 Total comprehensive loss for the year 8.4 8.4 As at 31 December 2014 and 1 January 2015 7.6 749.4 756.0 14.9 13.9 Total profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent 2.3 2.3 Total other comprehensive loss 0.7 0.7 Total comprehensive income loss for the year 0.7 2.3 1.6 Transactions with equity holders Share based payments 0.5 0.5 Conversion of preference shares 3.4 339.6 343.0 Issue of shares 2.1 172.6 2.7 172.0 Capital reduction 1,089.0 1,089.0 Total transactions with equity holders 5.5 576.8 1,086.8 515.5 As at 31 December 2015 13.1 172.6 756.0 0.7 1,074.2 503.2 Share capital and share premium Share capital recognised as equity comprised shares authorised, issued and fully paid up as follows: As at 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Authorised, issued and fully paid up ordinary share capital 657,217,641 Ordinary Shares of 2p 31 December 2014: 378,482,926 13.1 7.6 On 11 June 2015, the Company was incorporated with an issued share capital consisting of one Ordinary Share of 1.00 nominal value, which was issued for cash consideration at par.
On 3 August 2015, the 1.00 share was divided into 50 shares of 0.02 nominal value, each having the same rights and subject to the same restrictions as the single 1.00 Ordinary Share.
On 12 August 2015, pursuant to the reorganisation, the Company converted roll up loan notes amounting to 1,100.0m into Ordinary Share capital consisting of 549,999,946 additional Ordinary Shares with 0.02 nominal value, at a premium of 1.98 per share, fully paid and ranking pari passu with the existing 50 shares.
Of the Ordinary Shares issued, 171,517,055 were issued as part of the conversion of 343.0m of preference shares and accrued dividends thereon into Ordinary Share capital.
This is reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity as an increase in share capital of 3.4m and share premium of 339.6m in the year.
The remaining 378,482,891 Ordinary Shares were issued in exchange for the entire issued share capital of HIG H and, under the principles of predecessor accounting described in note 1, the resulting share capital of 7.6m and share premium of 749.4m havebeen presented as if they were in issue at 1 January 2014, the beginning of the previous accounting period.
Upon admission to the London Stock Exchange on 15 October 2015, the Company allotted and issued 107,217,645 Ordinary Shares of 0.02 each at a premium of 1.68 per share, each credited as fully paid.
This increased share capital by 2.1m and share premium by 180.1m, less associated costs of 7.5m, and 2.7m of costs incurred by the subsidiaries recognised in retained earnings.
126 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Share capital and reserves continued Merger reserve As described in note 1, the Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the principles of predecessor accounting, incorporating the consolidated results of HGH and the HIG H Group for both the current and prior periods.
Under this method, the difference on consolidation between consideration paid and the book value of the underlying net assets acquired on the date of the reorganisation is included within the merger reserve in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Other reserves Unrealised fair value movements on available for sale financial assets note 24 and property held at revalued amounts note 18 are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated within other reserves.
Share capital reduction On 2 December 2015, the Company received approval from the Companies Court to undertake a share capital reduction.
This reduced share premium and increased retained earnings by 1,089.0m.
Financial commitments The Group is committed to making the following payments in future years for land and buildings under operating leases: As at 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Within one year 0.7 0.4 Within two to five years 2.7 0.4 Over five years 1.2 Total operating lease commitments 4.6 0.8 Operating lease payments largely represent rentals payable by the Group for its office properties.
The Group is committed to making the following payments in future years under other contracts in place as at the year end: As at 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m IT transaction and support costs Within one year 7.4 1.2 Within two to five years 6.2 5.8 IT software development costs Within one year 1.8 2.0 Computer hardware costs Within one year 2.2 Total other financial commitments 15.4 11.2 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 127 32.
Subsidiaries and other significant holdings The Companys subsidiaries and other significant holdings are as follows: Country of Class of % Principal Subsidiary incorporation shares held Ownership activity Hastings Insurance Group Holdings plc HIG H Jersey Ordinary 100% Holding Hastings Insurance Group Investment plc HIG I Jersey Ordinary 100% Holding Hastings Insurance Group Layer Three Limited HIG L3 Jersey Ordinary 100% Dormant Hastings Insurance Group Layer Two Limited HIG L2 Jersey Ordinary 100% Dormant Hastings F Nominees Limited England and Wales Ordinary 100% Dormant Hastings G Nominees Limited England and Wales Ordinary 100% Dormant Hastings Insurance Group Finance plc HIG F Jersey Ordinary 100% Holding Hastings Insurance Group Limited HIG Jersey Ordinary 100% Holding Advantage Global Holdings Limited AGH British Virgin Islands Ordinary 100% Holding Advantage Insurance Company Limited AICL Gibraltar Ordinary 100% Underwriting Conquest House Limited CQH England and Wales Ordinary 100% Leasing of property Hastings Holdings Limited HHL England and Wales Ordinary 100% Holding Hastings UK Limited HUK England and Wales Ordinary 100% Holding Hastings Insurance Services Limited HISL England and Wales Ordinary 100% Broking Renew Insurance Services Limited England and Wales Ordinary 100% Dormant 1066 Direct Limited England and Wales Ordinary 100% Dormant Advantage Insurance Services Limited England and Wales Ordinary 100% Dormant Hastings Direct Limited England and Wales Ordinary 100% Dormant Hastings Direct Accident Management Limited England and Wales Ordinary 100% Dormant Peoples Choice Europe Limited England and Wales Ordinary 100% Dormant E Touch Solutions Limited E Touch England and Wales Ordinary 21% Software development Held indirectly.
The Company holds 100% of the voting rights of both its directly and indirectly owned subsidiaries.
Ultimate controlling party On 12 August 2015, Hastings Investco Limited Investco became the Companys immediate parent company as part of the reorganisation described in note 1.
Investcos registered office is at 47 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 0BD, Channel Islands.
Hastings A L. P. a Limited Partnership registered in the Cayman Islands, was considered the ultimate controlling party both before and after this reorganisation.
128 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 34.
Related party transactions The following related party transactions with the Group took place during the year: As at 31 December 2015, the Group owned 21% of ordinary shares in E Touch 31 December 2014: 19%.
The fair value of this investment is nil and as such no investment in associate is recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In June 2014, E Touch converted the HIG H Groups option to purchase additional capital in E Touch into an unsecured variable rate loan note of 0.3m which was not recognised.
Subsequently, the variable rate loan note was converted into equity, which increased the Groups interest in ordinary shares to 21%.
The Group recognised expenses of 0.1m in respect of development fees charged by E Touch during the year year ended 31 December 2014: 0.1m : The Group, under the terms of a discretionary investment management agreement with its subsidiary entity AICL, was charged 0.3m in fees by Goldman Sachs Asset Management International during the year year ended 31 December 2014: nil.
As at 31 December 2015, the outstanding balance was 0.2m 31December 2014: nil : Goldman Sachs & Co charged the Group advisory fees of 0.5m during the year year ended 31 December 2014: 0.2m and Goldman Sachs International charged the Group fees for investment banking services in connection with the IPO of 1.5m year ended 31 December 2014: nil.
As at 31 December 2015, the outstanding balance was nil 31December 2014: 0.2m : and During the period from 24 August 2015 to 31 December 2015, the Group was charged 0.1m by Eclipse Resources Limited forthe provision of key management personnel services, including amounts considered for a performance related element year ended 31 December 2014: nil.
The following related party transactions with the HIG H Group took place during the year, prior to reorganisation on 12August2015: On 12 January 2015, HIG H issued 476,600 C2 time vesting and C2 performance ordinary shares to key management personnel at their nominal value of 0.01, which were fully paid: and On 30 April 2015, HIG H issued an additional 430,000 C2 time vesting and C2 performance ordinary shares to key management personnel at their nominal value of 0.01, which were fully paid.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, the HIG H Group issued the following share capital and preference shares to key management personnel: Ordinary shares issued at their nominal value of 0.01 32,134,945 B ordinary shares: 1,249,852 C1 ordinary shares: and 4,410,000 C2 ordinary shares both C2 time vesting and C2 performance ordinary shares.
Preference shares with nominal value of 0.01, issued for consideration of 1.00 per share 12,123,508 16.0% B preference shares: 440,705 16.0% C preference shares: 86,605,687 11.5% B preference shares: and 3,368,419 11.5% C preference shares.
Refer to note 12 for details of key management personnel compensation during the year.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 129 35. acquisition On 8 January 2014, HIG H acquired 100% of the voting share capital of HIG, a related party of HIG H by virtue of the significant influence certain individuals had over both HIG and HIG H. HIG is a Jersey registered company and parent of subsidiaries, together the HIG Group, whose principal activities are that of the provision of insurance and insurance broking services.
The acquisition was effected for consideration totalling 596.0m from HIG F, one of HIG H s subsidiaries, in exchange for the entire issued ordinary share capital of HIG, which was structured as an offer to all the holders of HIGs issued share capital on the date of the acquisition.
Following the offer, the consideration comprised 454.9m in cash and a total of 141.1m in shares issued on the date of the acquisition.
This consideration was funded through the Goldman Sachs investment and through the issue of the Senior Secured Notes by HIG F in October 2013.
The carrying amount of the consideration transferred was considered to be its fair value.
The acquisition of the HIG Group contributed net revenue of 393.5m and profit after tax of 82.5m to the Group for the period from acquisition to 31 December 2014.
If the acquisition had taken place on 1 January 2014, the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss would have presented net revenue of 390.4m and a loss after tax of 7.3m.
Goodwill primarily consists of intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition such as the value of a workforce, internal know-how and processes acquired.
The HIG H Group incurred acquisition-related costs of 9.7m in the year ended 31 December 2014 that have been included in other operating expenses in profit or loss.
The results of the HIG Group for the seven days ended 7 January 2014 were: Seven days ended 7 January 2014 m Gross written premiums 8.0 Gross earned premiums 7.9 Earned premiums ceded to reinsurers 4.5 Net earned premiums 3.4 Other revenue 3.9 Investment and interest income 0.1 Net revenue 7.4 Claims incurred 6.0 Reinsurers share of claims incurred 3.3 Net claims incurred 2.7 Acquisition costs 0.8 Other operating expenses 1.8 Finance costs 0.2 Total expenses 2.8 Profit before tax 1.9 Taxation expense 0.4 Total profit and comprehensive income 1.5 130 Financial statements Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 35. acquisition continued The fair value of the HIG Groups assets and liabilities that were acquired on 7 January 2014 were as follows: As at 7 January 2014 m Assets Intangible assets 126.2 Property and equipment 9.2 Deferred income tax asset 5.0 Reinsurance assets 341.2 Prepayments 2.2 Insurance and other receivables 203.3 Financial assets at fair value 171.5 Cash and cash equivalents 111.8 Total assets 970.4 Liabilities Loans and borrowings 83.8 Insurance contract liabilities 586.7 Insurance and other payables 138.1 Provisions 0.9 Deferred income tax liability 29.9 Current tax liabilities 5.0 Total liabilities 844.4 Net assets 126.0 Consideration transferred 596.0 Goodwill 470.0 As at the acquisition date, the gross amounts of insurance and other receivables were 208.8m and the best estimate of the contractual cash flows not expected to be collected was 5.5m.
This comprised amounts due from customers who choose to pay by instalment which were not expected to be collected and resulted in the fair value of insurance and other receivables of 203.3m as presented above.
For all other assets, the gross contractual amount is equivalent to the fair value.
Dividends No dividends were paid during the year year ended 31 December 2014: nil.
On the 14 March 2016, the Board recommended the payment of a final dividend in respect of the 2015 financial year of 2.2p per share, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 25May2016.
