138 Other information Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Glossary 4cs Gross earned premiums Colleagues, Customers, Company and Community.
The Gross written premiums in the current and prior periods Groups cultural approach that defines decision making recognised over the life of the underlying insurance contracts.
Gross written premiums accident year loss ratio Total premiums the Group expects to receive over the life Accident year loss ratio is defined as net claims incurred in the of insurance contracts underwritten by Underwriting.
This period divided by net earned premiums.
is before ceding to the Groups reinsurers their share of premiums and includes the Groups portion of premiums For historic periods, the figures used are adjusted to reflect under co-insurance agreements.
the underlying performance of the business by excluding the effects of acquisition accounting.
The Group has also lcP incorporated adjustments to net earned premiums in these Live customer policies: the number of active policies.
periods due to changes in quota share contracts, to enable comparisons to be made with 2015. net claims incurred Net claims incurred represents claims expensed in the period calendar year loss ratio less the portion of claims covered by the Groups reinsurers.
Calendar year loss ratio is the accident year loss ratio adjusted to include the impact of prior year development of claims and net earned premiums PPO reserves.
Net earned premiums represent gross earned premiums after deducting earned premiums ceded to reinsurers.
claims reserves The Groups technical claims reserves represent the estimated net written premiums ultimate cost of its exposure to claims and expenses against Gross written premiums less portion of written premiums business which was previously underwritten.
ceded to the Groups panel of reinsurers.
co-insurance PcW An agreement between more than one insurer to Price comparison websites.
Each co-insurer receives a pre-determined portion of the benefit and risk from the Periodical payment orders underwritten contract.
Periodical payment orders PPOs may be awarded in respect of claims made under insurance contracts, typically for combined operating ratio the larger bodily injury claims, and are generally for a fixed Combined operating ratio is the sum of the calendar year loss instalment over an indeterminate time period, generally over ratio and expense ratio.
several years or over the lifetime of a policyholder.
expense ratio Profit commission Expense ratio is a measure of incurred operational and Performance-based payments from reinsurers based on acquisition expenses, net of certain reinsurance commissions, contractual performance targets.
expressed relative to net earned premiums.
Reinsurance For historic periods, the figures used are adjusted to reflect Agreement with a panel of insurers whereby the Group the underlying performance of the business by excluding mitigates risk of losses from claims by transmitting a portion the effects of acquisition accounting.
The Group has also of risk in exchange for a portion of premium.
The Group incorporated adjustments to net earned premiums and utilises reinsurance on a quota share basis a percentage reinsurance commissions in these periods due to changes share of premiums, claims and expenses and excess of loss in quota share contracts, to enable comparisons to be made basis full reinsurance for claims over an agreed value.
Retail Group The Groups retail business, Hastings Insurance Services The combined operations of Hastings Insurance Group Limited, trading as Hastings Direct, based in Bexhill, England.
Holdings plc and its subsidiaries for the period 1 January2014 to 11 August 2015 and Hastings Group Holdings plc and its Underwriting subsidiaries for the period 12August 2015 to 31 December 2015.
The Groups underwriting business, Advantage Insurance Company Limited, based in Gibraltar.
