Section 2: Strategic Report continued As already noted, certain sales of infrastructure investments are 2.7 MARKET TRENDS AND OUTLOOK attracting prices well above what the Group and the Investment Infrastructure Market Developments UK Adviser is prepared to pay, as was the case with the co-shareholder The Companys focus has been on secondary, or operational, disposals of interests in Colchester Garrison and Fife Schools see infrastructure assets, particularly in the UK which has a long history Section 2.4 Operational and Financial Review, under the heading of public sector procurement and as a consequence it now has the Disposals for details, implying values that the Board believes are largest number of operational social infrastructure projects of any unachievable through continued ownership.
As was the case for these global economy.
two investments, the Directors will consider opportunistic disposals especially where it believes the proceeds of any sale can be reinvested As noted already, with greater understanding of its investment in new investments that will be value accretive to the portfolio.
attributes, more investors have been seeking to acquire operational assets in the secondary market.
Although the Company was one of If UK social infrastructure investments continue to be heavily the first entrants to the market back in 2006, it has been followed by competed, with prices rising accordingly, the rate at which further further listed and unlisted infrastructure funds and, more recently, by acquisitions are made by the Group in the UK is likely to reduce.
institutional investors making direct investments into the asset class.
However, even with this more intense competition, the Group is At the same time, the majority of the available equity stakes in the cautiously confident of sourcing new investments with similar 600 UK social and transportation infrastructure projects have been risk-reward dynamics to the existing portfolio.
This confidence stems acquired by long-term, buy-and-hold investors.
The result in the UK is from the Companys clear strategy, together with the dedicated team, a reduced supply of potential new investment opportunities and, as a knowledge and depth of relationships the Investment Adviser has consequence, a trend of increasing valuations attributed to with the key market participants in the target sectors, which have investments sold.
resulted in the opportunities that have been successfully completed in the financial year.
Procurement of new infrastructure projects in the UK which are attractive investments for the Group to consider remains subdued with limited potential.
However, as an exception to this general Infrastructure Market Developments Europe, Australia and remark, the Group signed the first privately funded project to close North America under the new Private Finance 2 PF2 framework, namely the Priority Outside the UK, investment opportunities vary by country, but with a Schools Building Programme PSBP North East Batch.
The Project is number of active procurement programmes in Europe, North America part of the wider PSBP, a centrally managed programme set up to and Australasia, the number of potential new investment address the needs of the schools most in need of urgent repair.
opportunities suitable for the Group continues to grow.
The Group Through the programme, 260 schools will be rebuilt or have their has made new investments in the year in Australia, France, Holland condition needs met by the Education Funding Agency EFA.
There and Ireland, and has bid unsuccessfully in Canada.
We believe the may be another opportunity for the Group to secure an investment in Group can successfully capitalise on these new procurement a UK project due to reach financial close this calendar year.
programmes through our existing relationships and those of the Investment Adviser, which is using its wide network to source new With a new post-election UK Government, it will take some time opportunities, through the InfraRed offices in New York, Paris and before it is clear what the pipeline of new UK primary infrastructure Sydney.
Clearly any new investment needs to deliver an appropriate will be, and whether it is suitable for the Group to consider.
return that meets the Companys requirements and needs an appropriate premium for political, fiscal and currency risks.
During the year the Group participated in 12 auction processes and was successful in only two one of which related to the combined The number of projects being procured in countries in Europe, such sale of three investments acquired in the year, losing the remainder as France, Belgium and the Netherlands, continues to grow and the either through the bidding process or through pre-emption by expectation is that further investment opportunities will also arise in another shareholder.
Generally this has been because the winning the secondary markets of these territories as projects reach their bidder has bid a higher price based on a more optimistic view of operational phase.
There is the possibility that several larger multivarious cost and economic assumptions, a view that the Group is not jurisdictional portfolios will be marketed in due course as some prepared to take.
As stated previously and more so now, maintaining unlisted funds mature and look to realise gains for their investors.
a disciplined approach to acquisition pricing is vital, and this is Competition for these portfolios is expected to be fierce and the reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
Company will continue to be cautious rather than risk overpaying.
The remaining 15 investments that were made were secured via the Although the Group was unsuccessful bidding for an operational Investment Adviser relationships and direct negotiations with hospital PPP project in Australia in the year, this market continues to vendors.
Ten of these were follow-on incremental investments in offer some promise.
Whilst the Australian economy is well developed existing projects.
These transactions can proceed quickly, as only and political risk is low, the long-term foreign exchange and inflation limited due diligence is necessary.
Post-acquisition risk is lower due rate risks relative to Sterling are less predictable.
Nevertheless, to our existing detailed knowledge of the project.
provided new investments meet the investment criteria and objectives on a risk adjusted basis, further opportunities will be considered.
38 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 In North America, the largest PPP market remains Canada where As seen in the last year, the Group has successfully secured a there continues to be strong support for P3 procurement.
number of new investments at the start or in their construction Unfortunately, the tax breaks afforded to domestic pension funds phase.
This has been achieved by either joining a bidding consortium make it challenging for foreign investors to compete for many to bid for these new opportunities, or by acquiring an investment operational infrastructure assets as demonstrated by a recent from the winning consortium.
Whilst these investments have some potential opportunity that the Group failed to secure, which has construction risk which can be mitigated by having appropriate been attributed to this uncompetitive dynamic.
contractual structures in place, they also have better returns and yield than acquiring an investment that is operational.
It is likely that Currently, the Group is appraising an investment opportunity that is the Group will continue to seek investments in their construction being sold by an unlisted investment fund managed by the phase this year.
If successful, and in line with previous stated practice and principles of good governance, the Board will table a Although there is no exclusive  in respect of shareholders resolution at a shareholder meeting likely to be during investments being sold by other infrastructure funds managed by the Annual General Meeting in July concerning the proposed the Investment Adviser, the Company may benefit from these purchase of the investment from the related party.
Further details will opportunities such as the Canadian opportunity described above, be provided in a circular once details of the transaction are confirmed.
and the Board continues to ensure shareholders interests are protected through establishment of a buy-side engagement The US is a potentially much larger but longer-term opportunity.
The committee and independent third-party valuation.
pace of primary procurement is increasing and, as projects become operational, a secondary market of investment opportunities The Companys current portfolio mix geographically is not expected will develop.
to alter materially in 2015, and similarly, the Groups exposure to investments under construction is unlikely to materially increase.
The Groups Investment Pipeline and Acquisition Approach As commented above, in the UK the imbalance between supply and Overall, the Group still believes it will be able to make further demand has been driving up the pricing of social and transportation investments in the UK and, selectively, overseas but the rate of infrastructure investments.
The Group has been unsuccessful in a growth will be determined by the extent to which price competition number of auction processes in the last year with pricing levels that impacts value.
the Investment Adviser believes would dilute the Companys ability to meet the Groups return objectives.
Typically these processes have related to larger investments where the scale of the opportunity attracts a broader universe of bidders.
Participating in auction processes is time consuming and often fruitless, but it does provide valuable insight into how other parties are pricing investments: not just the yield they are prepared to accept but, to a degree, the underlying cash flows which they assume.
The Investment Adviser is successfully deploying an Acquisition Strategy built on long-established relationships and direct negotiations with potential vendors.
Together with buying incremental stakes in existing projects, the Company has been able to make value-accretive acquisitions without compromising on returns or by making unrealistic assumptions on future forecast cash flows.
The Group has also considered assets which some consider too small or too complex, but which can often offer attractive returns.
In addition, the Investment Adviser is actively exploring new investment opportunities outside the UK in developed markets.
Only those which fit the Companys Investment Policy and pricing disciplines are considered.
Significant due diligence is undertaken in-house by the Investment Adviser before any third-party costs are incurred.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 39 Failsworth School, Manchester, England 40 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015
