Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 1.
Reporting Entity HICL Infrastructure Company Limited the Company is a company domiciled in Guernsey, Channel Islands, whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 31 March 2015 comprise the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries see Note 21, together referred to as the Consolidated Group and together with its investments, the Group.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has all the typical characteristics of an investment entity and the three essential criteria specific in the standard and therefore the Company continues to apply Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27.
In addition, certain subsidiaries provide specific investment management services and undertake investment activities that require the results of those subsidiaries to be consolidated in the Group financial statements.
The three essential criteria are that the entity must: 1.
Obtain funds from one or more investors for the purpose of providing these investors with professional investment management services: 2.
Commit to its investors that its business purpose is to invest its funds solely for returns from capital appreciation, investment income or both: and 3.
Measure and evaluate the performance of substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
At 31 March 2014, Infrastructure Investments Holdings Limited was included in the Consolidated Group.
The involvement of Infrastructure Investments Holdings Limited in bidding activities has changed since 31 March 2014 and hence it no longer provides investment related services and is no longer eligible for consolidation by the Company and therefore no longer forms part of the Consolidated Group, effective from 1 April 2014.
Following the meeting of the International Accounting Standards Board IASB in October 2014, Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 was issued in December 2014.
This is a revision to the Investment Entity Amendment currently applied by the Company and states that investment entities should measure all of their subsidiaries that are themselves investment entities at fair value and in effect could result in no subsidiaries being consolidated.
The potential impact on the Companys financial statements is unclear at this point, although should HICL Infrastructure 1 SARL, HICL Infrastructure 2 SARL and Infrastructure Investments Limited Partnership no longer be consolidated by the Company, it is not expected to impact either earnings or net assets materially when the amendments become applicable to the Companys financial statements in the financial year ending 31 March 2017.
In accordance with section 244 5 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as the Directors have prepared consolidated financial statements for the period, they have not prepared individual statements for the Company in accordance with section 243 for the period.
Key accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 20 May 2015.
The consolidated financial statements, which give a true and fair view, have been prepared in compliance with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU using the historical cost basis, except that the financial instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss are stated at their fair values.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently in these consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Companys functional currency.
The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU, requires the Directors and advisers to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Note 3 shows critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions.
The Consolidated Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in Section 2.2 and 2.3 on pages 10 to 18.
The financial position of the Consolidated Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in Sections 2.4 and 2.5 on pages 18 to 26.
In addition, Notes 1 to 4 of the financial statements include the Consolidated Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Key Accounting Policies continued a Basis of preparation continued The Consolidated Group has considerable financial resources together with long term contracts with various public sector customers and suppliers across a range of infrastructure projects.
The financing for these projects is non-recourse to the Consolidated Group.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Consolidated Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors believe that the Consolidated Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
New standards effective for the current year The Consolidated Group early adopted IFRS 10 and Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 in its financial statements as at and for the year to 31 March 2014, all of which have been applied again consistently in the current year.
Standards not yet applied The Consolidated Group notes the following amended and improved published standards and interpretations which were in issue at the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements: Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 see also Note 1 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 b Basis of consolidation In these consolidated financial statements the Company applied IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other entities.
The IASB has also issued Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 which requires entities that meet the definition of an investment entity to fair value relevant subsidiaries through the profit or loss rather than consolidate their results.
The Company has adopted the Investment Entities amendment such that those entities that provide investment related services or activities to the Company continue to be consolidated, consistent with the prior year.
The consolidated financial statements of the Consolidated Group include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, except those required to be held at fair value, up to 31 March 2015.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Company.
The Company has control of an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee as defined in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
The financial statements of subsidiaries, except those held at fair value, are included in the consolidated financial statements on a line by line basis from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
Associates are those entities over which the Company has significant influence as defined in IAS 28 Investments in Associates.
By virtue of the Companys status as an investment fund and the exemption provided by IAS 28, investments in such entities are designated upon initial recognition to be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Intra-Consolidated Group receivables, liabilities, revenue and expenses are eliminated in their entirety when preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Gains that arise from intra-Consolidated Group transactions and that are unrealised from the standpoint of the Consolidated Group on the balance sheet date are eliminated in their entirety.
Unrealised losses on intra-Consolidated Group transactions are also eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, to the extent that the loss does not correspond to an impairment loss.
c Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Consolidated Groups balance sheet when the Consolidated Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and liabilities are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the instrument expire or the asset or liability is transferred and the transfer qualifies for derecognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
i Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value including directly attributable transaction costs, except for financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative financial instruments are measured as described hereafter.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 85 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2015 2.
Key Accounting Policies continued c Financial instruments continued Investments in equity and debt securities Investments in the equity and loanstock of entities engaged in infrastructure activities which are not classified as subsidiaries of the Consolidated Group or which are subsidiaries not consolidated in the Consolidated Group, are designated at fair value through profit or loss since the Consolidated Group manages these investments and makes purchase and sale decisions based on their fair value.
The initial difference between the transaction price and the fair value, derived from using the discounted cash flows methodology at the date of acquisition, is recognised only when observable market data indicates there is a change in a factor that market participants would consider in setting the price of that investment.
After initial recognition, investments at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value with changes recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Loans and borrowings Loans and borrowings are recognised initially at fair value of the consideration received, less transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the consolidated income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Other Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
ii Derivative financial instruments The Consolidated Group holds derivative financial instruments to mitigate its foreign currency risk exposure.
All derivatives are recognised initially at fair value with attributable transaction costs recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Thereafter, derivatives are measured at fair value with changes recognised in the consolidated income statement as part of finance costs or finance income.
Fair value is based on price quotations from financial institutions active in the relevant market.
The Consolidated Group does not use hedge accounting.
iii Fair values Fair values are determined using the income approach, except for derivative financial instruments, which discounts the expected cash flows attributable to each asset at an appropriate rate to arrive at fair values.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, regard is had to relevant long term government bond yields, the specific risks of each investment and the evidence of recent transactions.
iv Effective interest The effective interest rate is that rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the relevant financial assets or financial liabilitys carrying amount.
d Share capital and share premium Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Costs associated with the establishment of the Company or directly attributable to the issue of new shares that would otherwise have been avoided are written-off against the balance of the share premium account.
e Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Cash equivalents, including demand deposits, are held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments rather than for investment or other purposes.
f Revenue Interest income is recognised in the consolidated income statement as it accrues on a time-apportioned basis, using the effective interest rate of the instrument concerned as calculated on acquisition or origination date.
Dividends are recognised when the Consolidated Groups right to receive payment has been established.
Fees and other operating income are recognised when the Consolidated Groups rights to receive payment have been established.
Gains on investments relates solely to the investments held at fair value.
g Income tax Under the current system of taxation in Guernsey, the Company itself is exempt from paying taxes on income, profits or capital gains.
Dividend and interest income received by the Consolidated Group may be subject to withholding tax imposed in the country of origin of such income, but all such tax is currently recoverable.
