2.8 RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Overview The Company has put a risk management framework in place covering all aspects of the Groups business.
The Company is an Investment Company which has elected to be a self-managed AIF under AIFMD.
The appropriate policies and procedures have been put in place to allow the Company to fulfil its obligations, and these include the formation of a Risk Committee.
The Risk Committee, which reports its findings to the Board, is tasked with the identification, assessment and management of risk for the Group, and ensuring that these are integral elements of the Investment Advisers and the Operators work in both the management of the existing portfolio and in seeking new investment opportunities.
The Risk Committee reviews the key risks affecting the Company at each regular quarterly meeting, by reference to a risk analysis matrix developed and monitored in conjunction with the Investment Adviser.
This review includes consideration of any new circumstances which could arise creating additional risks for the Group.
For each identified risk, a mitigation strategy is, where appropriate, developed and implemented, together with appropriate monitoring by the Investment Adviser and other key service providers as appropriate.
The Company outsources key services to the Investment Adviser and other service providers.
It therefore places reliance on these service providers own systems and controls, details of which the Board has received and reviews annually.
The Boards Management Engagement Committee reviews the performance of the Investment Adviser as well as all key service providers at least annually and this review includes a consideration of the Investment Advisers internal controls and their effectiveness.
The Investment Advisers risk and compliance team has developed a detailed self-assessment internal control report, and this is reviewed and debated on a quarterly basis by the Board.
In addition, on an annual basis the Investment Advisers risk and compliance team reviews compliance against the documented procedures and controls, and reports its findings to the Board.
Given the limited number of disposals from the portfolio and the similar risk profile of new investments compared to the existing portfolio i. e. they are all social and transportation infrastructure projects and the majority are in the UK with broadly similar contractual structures, the type and nature of the risks in the Group do not materially change from year to year.
The Directors set out the material risks relating to the Groups portfolio and to individual investments in the Company as at 26 February 2013 in the Companys New Ordinary Shares Prospectus, which is available from the Companys website.
These risks and possible mitigants are summarised below under four key risk areas Business & Operational Model: Market and Political: Macro-Economic and Financial: Shareholder and Other Risks.
Business & Operational Model Risks Risk Description Mitigant Asset Performance Operational Issues Poor operational performance or the failure Operational issues can be caused by a number of factors, the to meet the prescribed contractual service most likely of which is the underperformance of a service standards as measured by key delivery partner.
The Investment Adviser, through its Asset performance indicators, set as part of the Management team, plays a pro-active oversight role, visiting project arrangements with the client at the projects and attending project company board meetings in a outset, or the appearance of latent directorship capacity, to ensure any trends in performance construction defects, reduce the Unitary are picked up early and, if necessary, corrected accordingly.
Payments made by the public sector client Key findings are reported to the Investment Advisers to the project company.
Reductions could Investment Committee at quarterly update meetings.
be either a partial, or in the extreme, the full proportion of the Projects income.
When problems do arise, the relevant Asset Manager will closely oversee the corrective steps and relevant Beyond the financial cost that such stakeholders actions in order to preserve good working reductions levy, there is the potential for an relations with the client and thereby minimise any potential adverse reputational impact to the private reputational damage.
sector consortium including the Company from any material operational issues.
Any Unitary Payment deductions for periods of unavailability or poor service delivery are typically contractually passeddown to the sub-contractor who is at fault.
In a severe case, the project company can terminate a subcontractor who fails to perform and either self-manage the services or tender for a new service provider.
The cost of this action would, where possible, be also recovered from the previous supplier.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 41 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Business & Operational Model Risks continued Risk Description Mitigant Asset Performance Termination The public sector client is entitled to This risk is not considered to be high due, in part, to the terminate the contract voluntarily or for requirement for the public sector client to fund these default typically where operational termination costs, which include the cost of repaying the debt performance issues result from a force secured to finance the project.
In any event, the Investment majeure event or a serious breach of Adviser and Operator is strongly aligned to prevent such an contract, sometimes without compensation.
occurrence and, as described above, proactively deals with Where compensation is payable, it may be issues before they become major concerns.
lower than the market carrying value of the Groups equity interest of the investment.
Counterparty Risk Supply Chain The project company contracts with the As one of its key objectives see Section 2.1 Overview, client to deliver the infrastructure asset and Approach, Objectives, History and Structure, the Company the associated services.
The project provides investors with access to a balanced, diversified company sub-contracts the provision of the portfolio of investments in terms of clients, funders and services to specialist providers supply-chain contractors, thereby mitigating concentration construction and facilities management risk and the impact of the default non-performance by any companies.
The failure of a supply chain single counterparty.
In addition, counterparty credit risk is provider would negatively impact the considered at regular intervals by the Investment Advisers project companys ability to fulfil its internal credit risk team.
contractual obligations with the client or, in the least, delay delivery.
Unitary Payment Section 2.6 Investment Portfolio provides details of the deductions would then be made by the Groups broad exposure to counterparts across the portfolio.
client as a result which would impact the Companys cashflow and therefore the valuation of the Groups portfolio.
Debt Providers Project Companies typically use debt at the See mitigant response against Supply Chain above.
outset to fund the construction of an infrastructure asset.
In most instances, the See Project Financing and Cash Deposits below in respect of interest rate is fixed through the use of a cash reserves available to protect the interest of the lenders, swap arrangement.
The project company which alleviates the need for premature remedial action.
In therefore assumes credit risk with the swap addition, a chart in Section 2.6 Investment Portfolio shows counterparty.
the breakdown of the ten largest investments and the balance to illustrate the low concentration risk any single Further, in the instance that a particular project bears on the portfolio as a whole.
project faces operational issues see above and Unitary Payment deductions are made, the lender may have grounds to foreclose the loan or demand advance repayment, which could materially adversely affect the equity interest the Group has in the project company.
42 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 Business & Operational Model Risks continued Risk Description Mitigant Clients If a public sector client has financial The impact of any single client default to the overall Group is difficulties and is unable to meet its considered small.
A chart in Section 2.6 Investment Portfolio obligations to pay the Unitary Payment under shows the breakdown of the ten largest investments and the a concession agreement, this could have a balance in terms of weighting relative to the overall value of material impact on that projects cashflows.
This acts as a good proxy for illustrating the low concentration risk the Group bears to any individual client.
There have been cases in the health sector, for a UK healthcare trust to find itself In the specific case of the Groups health projects and their running a budget deficit and potentially NHS Trust clients, each project company also benefits from a unable to meet its ongoing liabilities.
Where Deed of Safeguard or similar with the UK Government, this occurs, the local health economy has whereby the project company is not left unpaid if an NHS typically been reorganised such that the Trust fails to perform its obligations under the contract for PFI PPP obligations are met by a solvent example if the Trust became insolvent.
entity for the remainder of the contract.
However, there is a risk that such situations may not always result in an outcome which is favourable to the project company.
Operational Costs The budget, and therefore the risk, of certain As part of the due diligence process at the time of key operational costs associated with a acquisition, all operating budgets are reviewed to determine project lies with the project company.
Generally these relate to the MSA contract, the lifecycle costs and the insurance In the case of insurance, there is often some protection premium.
In certain cases, the risk sits fully through contractual premium risk-sharing agreements with with the project company, whilst in other the public sector client such that, when an agreed cap is met, instances it may be partially or fully subthe client mostly, or wholly, assumes the increased premium.
contracted to the facilities management contractor.
There is a risk that the budget The Investment Adviser regularly assesses the adequacy of proves to be insufficient.
lifecycle budgets where the risk sits with the project companies.
The portfolios sensitivity to the largest of these risks, the lifecycle costs, is set out in Section 2.5 Valuation of the Portfolio, under the heading Valuation Sensitivities.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 43 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Business & Operational Model Risks continued Risk Description Mitigant Asset and Portfolio The Company is heavily reliant upon the The Investment Adviser has a track record of investing and Management and Investment Adviser to implement the managing infrastructure investments over a period of more Transaction Execution strategies see Section 2.2 Strategy and than 20 years.
It has developed a depth of resource and Investment Policy and, as a result, deliver knowledge in the asset class, as well as appropriate and its objectives.
detailed sets of policies, procedures, compliance systems, and risk controls e. g. the use of an Executive Committee and Broadly speaking, the different Investment Committee for appropriate decision-making.
functions within the investment Advisers team Asset Management, Portfolio Each functional area benefits from a group of individuals Management and Origination are possessing relevant qualifications, relationships and responsible for each of the asset experience for their roles e. g. members of the Asset management, value enhancement and management team will typically have a background in investment selection and pricing disciplines, PFI PPP construction or facilities management.
The respectively, discussed in Section 2.2 Investment Adviser has recruited additional infrastructure Strategy and Investment Policy.
A staff over recent years, increasing the size, skills and performance deterioration of any of these experience of the team on which the Group relies.
The Board functions would have a material impact on is satisfied that there is sufficient depth of expertise within the Companys performance.
the Investment Advisers team for the Group not to be reliant on any single key man.
The Investment Adviser is supported by specialist advisers e. g. lawyers, technical consultants, and tax advisers who are retained to carry out specific due diligence on potential acquisitions to minimise transaction risk, or provide advice on ad hoc issues for projects under management.
Market & Political Risks Risk Description Mitigant Acquisition Pipeline Investor appetite for infrastructure assets The Board is confident that the Investment Adviser, via its is at an all-time high.
This desire is driven network of established relationships, is able to continue by the inherent attractive characteristics of enjoying access to opportunities in the UK.
It is also the asset class and the historically low selectively considering opportunities abroad where an yields high prices for long-dated investment offers satisfactory value upside for the additional government bonds a reference point for risk that is assumed when introducing further foreign the pricing of infrastructure assets with investments into the portfolio.
As a consequence, the sourcing of new investments for the Group is increasingly difficult given the levels of competitive demand.
Political and Regulatory Stringent Contractual Interpretation In the UK PFI health sector, certain public The Investment Adviser does not currently believe this risk sector clients are applying some stringent to be wide spread.
A recent note from Moodys rating agency interpretation of contract terms, leading to accords with this view, but a watching brief is in place.
The material Unitary Payment deductions for Groups investment assumption remains that PFI contracts the related projects.
These deductions are are both fair and balanced in protecting the interests of the often disputed, requiring time and money respective parties.
Furthermore, a continuation of the policy to achieve a resolution through processes is unlikely as it would adversely affect investors appetite to which can leave the value of the make future commitments to infrastructure assets, thereby investment impaired.
impacting the public sectors ability to raise private financing for necessary new projects.
44 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 Market & Political Risks continued Risk Description Mitigant Change in Policy A change in policy or sentiment toward Studies show that the need for new infrastructure and the private financing is likely to affect the levels repair of existing is a huge spend requirement globally, of procurement of new development requiring sums of money that governments will find it greenfield projects.
This would in due difficult to raise.
It is therefore likely that private sector course impact the availability of new capital will continue to be used to fund infrastructure transactions in the secondary market in investment and that there will continue to be suitable which the Company is most active.
projects from the Group to invest in.
More unlikely, but not impossible, would be Each of the Groups projects is structured with a legally a public sector client reneging on the terms binding contract with a public sector client.
Most social and of the project agreement and failing partly transportation infrastructure concessions provide some or or in whole to make the contracted Unitary total protection, through their contractual structures, in Payments.
Although the Company and, in relation to changes in legislation which affect either the all likelihood, other infrastructure investors project asset or the way the services are provided.
Finally, would mount a legal challenge if such an such a development would have wide ranging, adverse aggressive change in policy were attempted, implications for all private sector investors and supply chain the legal processes and means for redress stakeholders, and therefore acts as a natural deterrent would require considerable resources and against such an approach.
This would undoubtedly impact the value of the Groups investment portfolio and affect the Companys ability to meet target distributions.
Indirect Legal Regulatory changes Various indirect, ancillary or wide-reaching The Company, the Investment Adviser and their advisers legal and regulatory changes may adversely continually monitor any potential or actual changes to impact the Group.
This could take the form of regulations to ensure both the Group and its service legislation impacting the supply chain or providers remain compliant.
Where appropriate, the contractual costs or obligations to which Investment Adviser will participate in consultation project companies and therefore the equity processes, often in lobbying groups, to ensure that the investor are exposed.
In addition, legal and legislature hears the concerns and views of the Company, in regulatory changes in the form of the new its capacity as a private sector investor.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, the UK Listing Rules, the Guernsey Financial Services Commission and the Guernsey Company Law are likely to have a direct impact on the Investment Adviser and the Company.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 45 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Macro-Economic & Financial Risk Description Mitigant Inflation The project revenue, being the Unitary Whilst UK RPI and RPIx the two reference measures for the Payment made by the public sector client, inflation-linkage on UK projects are relatively low at the typically has partial or full inflation-linkage.
present time, the two indicators have been positive during Similarly, the project outflows, such as the the last 15 years, other than a brief spell where UK RPI operating, lifecycle and debt-capital costs turned negative during 2009.
The Investment Adviser are generally inflation-linked or fixed believes that the long-term average forecast for UK inflation throughout the life of the project.
The of 2.75% p. a. remains appropriate, but investors are consequence is that the net inflow from the provided with an analysis of the portfolios sensitivity to project to the project company i. e. after all inflation in Section 2.5 Valuation of the Portfolio, under the costs has positive inflation correlation.
However, if the UK were to enter an environment of falling inflation, such that RPI was below 2.75% p. a. on average for the remainder of the current projects lives, or there were periods of deflation, the valuation of the portfolio would be adversely impacted, and in a period of sustained deflation, projects could suffer defaults under their loan arrangements as the free cashflows to service debt in a deflation period would decline in nominal terms.
Interest Rates Discount Rates A discounted cashflow methodology is The key mitigant to an increase in the appropriate discount used to value the Groups investments.
The rate implied by an increase in interest rates is that the two appropriateness of the selected discount variables do not move in isolation.
Interest rates and rate for each project and therefore the inflation are also correlated over the long-term however, by weighted average discount rate for all contrast, they exhibit a positive relationship.
Therefore, an projects is key to deriving a fair and increase in interest rates over the long term tend to result in reasonable valuation for the portfolio.
The both a higher discount rate and a higher inflation rate rate is established by reference to the yield factors which materially offset one another in the context of on long-dated government bonds a proxy a portfolio valuation exercise.
Further, an interest rate for the risk-free rate plus an adequate increase would have a positive impact on deposits held on risk-premium to reflect the additional risk account see Project Financing and Cash Deposits below associated with owning an equity interest for details thereby mitigating the impact of a discount rate in a real asset.
hike on the portfolio value.
Section 2.5 Valuation of the Portfolio, under the heading Valuation Sensitivities All else being equal, an increase in interest provides some analysis of the impact of the portfolios rates would imply an increase to the sensitivity to these variables.
discount rate because of its reference back to the risk-free rate, as described above.
Finally, aside from the general correlation of variables The mathematical impact of applying a discussed above, in the present environment the risk-free higher discount rate to the future cashflows rate is at historically low levels.
However, the level of the of the projects would be a reduction in the discount rate applied by market participants for valuing net present value of the overall portfolio.
secondary, availability-based infrastructure investments such as those held in the portfolio has remained remarkably robust in recent years.
The implication is that the risk-premia for the asset class is relatively high.
It could therefore support a downward trend to its long-term mean, should the risk-free rate rise, without impacting the overall discount rate.
46 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 Macro-Economic & Financial continued Risk Description Mitigant Revolving Credit Facility The Company benefits from the use of a To manage interest rate risk, the Group may use interest rate revolving credit facility RCF, so as to avoid swaps to hedge drawings under the Groups debt facility, holding materials amounts of uninvested depending on the how long the debt is likely to be drawn.
cash in excess of what is needed to meet outstanding equity commitments for The Investment Adviser plans to approach both existing and existing investments or to fund potential prospective new lenders this year, ahead of the expiry of the acquisitions in the near term.
New equity existing facility, to ensure there is sufficient time to issuances programmes are used from time negotiate terms for a new facility.
The current facility is to time to raise capital which can be used to provided by four lenders to minimise the Companys pay down the facility.
The Company is exposure to reliance upon any single bank.
therefore subject to interest rate risk in respect of the RCF commitments.
Project Financing and Cash Deposits Each project is typically leveraged with Adverse interest rate movements cannot be prevented or amortising debt with a tenor that tends to fully mitigated.
The Company aims to be realistic in its match the concession life.
A requirement of interest rate assumptions, thereby ensuring that cash the debt funding terms is that sufficient deposits are appropriately accounted for in the portfolio cash deposits are maintained at project valuation exercise.
Investors are provided with an company level to support the repayments illustration of the portfolios sensitivity to interest rate to the senior lenders.
In addition, cash movements in Section 2.5 Valuation of the Portfolio, under reserves are held back in bank accounts to the heading Valuation Sensitivities.
meet contingent liabilities and the anticipated expenditure that falls to the Debt financing for PFI PPP P3 projects have fixed-rate or project company e. g. life cycle costs.
inflation-linked interest rate hedges in place on their borrowings for the full-term to minimise interest volatility.
The deposits are generally held in short term interest-bearing accounts.
A fall in interest rates below the level assumed in the portfolio valuation model would reduce the anticipated cash flow to the Company and therefore its net asset value.
Taxation Corporate Tax Rates Recent reductions in the UK corporation tax Changes in UK or overseas corporation tax rates cannot be rate has positively impacted the portfolios prevented or mitigated.
The Company aims to be realistic in valuation, however, there is no assurance its tax rate assumptions.
that this rate will remain in place or decrease further in the future.
By contrast, Investors are provided with an illustration of the portfolios subsequent Governments or a change in sensitivity to changes in tax rates in Section 2.5 Valuation policy might lead to an increase in the of the Portfolio, under the heading Valuation Sensitivities.
corporate tax rate and a corresponding reduction in the portfolios value.
Equivalent risks arise in respect of the Groups overseas projects.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 47 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Macro-Economic & Financial continued Risk Description Mitigant Cross-border Tax Treatment The tax treatment of income received by Relevant tax rules are closely monitored by the Investment the Group may be adversely impacted from Adviser, the Company and their advisers for any potentially a change in cross-border tax rules, adverse changes to the Group.
Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS The OECD has announced an action plan in A consultation process on the BEPS action plan is being respect of certain international tax undertaken by the OECD, with a number of representatives practices which, if drawn up in a wide from the infrastructure sector highlighting the risk to private ranging fashion and subsequently financing investment unless suitable concessions are made implemented, could have a material impact for infrastructure.
The Board and the Investment Adviser are on tax including the deductibility of the monitoring developments and contributing to the interest costs from the debt used to finance consultation through industry bodies.
Currently, it is too projects.
This action would undermine the early to assess how or if the implementation of changes from structuring typically used for private this initiative will affect the Group or its investments.
finance investments, such as those held by However, the overriding public need both in the UK and the Group and other infrastructure abroad to utilise private financing as a procurement model investors, leading to a material impact on for new infrastructure projects is expected to be a strong the Groups future cash flows and therefore deterrent to introducing new tax standards that would have the portfolios valuation.
a penal impact on infrastructure investments presently held by investors.
Foreign Exchange As the Company owns a number of To mitigate the foreign exchange risk, the Group has used a investments in jurisdictions outside the UK, combination of balance sheet hedging, through multiwhere the income generated from the currency drawings under its credit facility or through rolling project is denominated in a foreign currency, forward sales of the respective currency, and hedging the investment return is received in a prospective income on a short-term basis through outright currency other than Sterling.
Project costs are incurred, and project-level financing secured in the local currency, and so these are not subject to foreign currency exchange risk.
Accounting Accounting policies and practices change A significant proportion of the equity return to the Company from time to time and any such amendment takes the form of shareholder debt interest income, which is could adversely affect the levels of not subject to distributable profit assessments.
distributable profits that may be available to the Company from the project investment and holding entities.
Cyber-Attack A cyber-attack could affect the Groups, the The Group has no dedicated IT systems as it relies on those Investment Advisers or a project companys of its services providers.
The Investment Adviser has IT IT systems, causing theft or loss of data, or systems designed to withstand a cyber-attack and these potentially damage to a buildings control systems have been subject to successful annual tests by a systems and equipment.
This would have specialist third party.
negative legal, operational and reputational repercussions.
Project Companies tend not to have their own IT systems and rely on their subcontractors and management companies.
Data is normally backed up and the risk, should data be corrupted or stolen, is considered low.
48 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 Shareholder and Other Risks Risk Description Mitigant Share Price Premium The Companys shares may trade at a The Company publishes a NAV per share twice a year.
The Discount to NAV premium or discount to the last published method of valuing the Groups investments is described in NAV per share.
detail in Section 2.5 Valuation of the Portfolio.
To assist in managing the share price premium or discount to NAV, the shares via tap issues or full equity raisings, as appropriate.
However, there is no guarantee that these measures will minimise the discount or premium to NAV.
Financial Objectives The Company may fail to deliver on its The Company, together with its Investment Adviser, has target financial objectives of maintaining delivered the targeted distribution profile, as well as capital and growing its annual dividend and growth in excess of target, since its IPO, and has the longest its NAV.
track record amongst its peers.
Further, due to the contractual nature of both the projects revenues and operational costs, the Company has high levels of certainty over the investment cashflows, which directly supports its ability to achieve its financial objectives.
Valuation Sensitivities and The sensitivity analysis does not show a Sensitivity analysis is a tool with limitations: it seeks to Financial Modelling comprehensive picture of all potential illustrate to investors the impact that certain key variables scenarios.
Further, variables do not tend to have on the portfolios valuation.
It cannot provide a move in isolation, nor in a uniform or comprehensive assessment of all of the risks and should be consistent manner, and the analysis does treated accordingly.
not show the potentially infinite number of permutations, and resultant impacts, that Financial models are managed by an experienced team who might arise in reality as a consequence.
are adept at managing them in a manner than seeks to minimise the introduction of errors of any type.
Financial models, either for the Group or the underlying project companies, may A substantive deviation of a projects investment contain errors of a numerical, formulaic or performance from its associated financial model would logical nature, or incorrect inputs, resulting indicate a requirement to re-examine the model for in inaccurate outputs.
These could inaccuracies and or errors.
Such instances are rare and adversely impact the assessment of the therefore provide the Investment Adviser and the Board with Companys financial position.
comfort that the models are behaving as designed.
