Section 2: Strategic Report continued Geographic Focus The Group may borrow in currencies other than pounds sterling as The Directors believe that attractive opportunities for the Group to part of its currency hedging strategy.
enhance returns for investors are likely to arise both within the UK where the majority of the projects in the current portfolio are based Amendments and abroad.
The Group may therefore make investments in the Any material amendments to the Investment Policy will require the European Union, Norway, Switzerland, the Americas and selected approval of Shareholders.
territories in Asia and Australasia.
The Group may also make investments in other markets should suitable opportunities arise.
Conflicts of interest It is expected that certain further investments to be sourced by the The Group will seek to mitigate country risk by concentrating on Investment Adviser will have been originated and developed by, and investment opportunities in jurisdictions where it considers that may be acquired from, a fund managed by the Investment Adviser or contract structures and legal enforceability are reliable, where public its affiliates.
In order to deal with these potential conflicts of sector obligations carry a satisfactory credit rating and prior evidence interest, detailed procedures and arrangements have been of government sponsorship for privately-procured infrastructure established to manage transactions between the Group and such exists, and where financial markets are relatively mature.
other parties the Rules of Engagement.
Single investment limit and Diversity of Clients and Suppliers Key features of the Rules of Engagement include the creation of The Companys Investment Policy is to ensure a diversified portfolio separate committees to represent the interests of the vendors on the of similarly sized investments to ensure no dominance by any single one hand and the Group on the other, to ensure independence and investment.
To achieve this end, the Company will ensure each new therefore arms length decision making and approval processes: the investment acquired does not have an acquisition value or, if it is an establishment of Chinese walls to maintain appropriate information additional stake in an existing investment, does not have a combined barrier procedures between the two committees: independent asset value of both the existing and additional stake greater than 20% of due diligence processes and an independent experts assessment the total gross assets of the Company immediately post acquisition.
report on the Fair Market Value for the transaction.
In addition, the Group seeks sufficient minimum percentage ownership to allow it normally to appoint at least one director to the In considering any such acquisition the Directors will, as they deem project company board.
necessary, review and ask questions of the Buyside Committee and the Groups other advisers, to ensure that the Directors are satisfied In selecting new investments, the Company will ensure that the that the terms of any such acquisitions are negotiated on an arms resulting portfolio of investments has a range of public sector clients length basis.
and supply chain contractors, in order to avoid over-reliance on either a single client or a single contractor.
Full details of the Rules of Engagement are available on pages 47 and 48 of the Companys Prospectus issued in 2013.
Further details and a breakdown of exposure by various measures are set out in Section 2.6 Investment Portfolio.
2.3 BUSINESS MODEL, ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE AND PROCESSES Other Investment Restrictions Business Model The Company is subject to certain investment restrictions pursuant Revenue to the UKLA Listing Rules, which include, amongst others, not crossThe projects in which the Group has an investment are typically financing businesses forming part of the Groups investment structured under a public sector infrastructure procurement model portfolio or investing more than 10%, in aggregate, of the Companys called PFI PF2 PPP in the UK, and PPP P3 elsewhere.
This model assets in other listed closed-ended investment funds.
Currently, the has been successfully employed by a number of countries over the Company has no such investment in a listed closed-ended last 20 years to procure new infrastructure investment and the asset investment fund.
class affords a number of attractive features for the equity investor.
The principal feature is the quality and predictability of the Group Gearing underlying revenue stream once construction completion is achieved The Group intends to make prudent use of leverage to finance the and the asset is operational, which provides significant protection acquisition of investments, to enhance returns to investors and to from economic cycles and competitive pressures.
The key finance outstanding subscription obligations.
characteristics of these infrastructure projects, including this feature of the revenue stream, are as follows: Under the Articles, the Groups outstanding borrowings, excluding intra-group borrowings and the debts of underlying investee Provision of assets procured by the public sector to meet companies, but including any financial guarantees to support essential public service needs: and subscription obligations, are limited to 50% of the Adjusted Gross Service obligations which include the projects financing, build, Asset Value meaning the fair market value, without deductions for operation and maintenance and the associated standards are borrowed money or other liabilities or accruals, and including stipulated and structured through long-term concession outstanding subscription obligations of its investments and cash contracts: projects have limited, if any, residual value at the end balances at any time.
12 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 Blackpool Primary Care, Blackpool, England H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 13 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Following build completion and asset availability, regular, contracted Unitary Payments are made by the public sector client to the project company, subject to the pre-determined contractual service standards being met or with incremental deductions for each and any shortfall: and Unitary Payments benefit from inflation-linkage partially or fully.
The Unitary Payments from the public sector client are used to remunerate the equity investment in the project company once the senior debt service, operating costs and other expenses of the project company have been met.
Illustrative investment cash flow characteristics over a projects life with availability-type income Typical Social Infrastructure Investment Cash Flow Profile Bidding Construction Operation & Maintenance Phase Phase Phase Illustrative Chart Value Typical timing for investment by the Group 3 2 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 Cash flow from Interest on and repayment of Shareholder loans, and equity distributions Increased equity dividend payments once senior debt is repaid Financial Close As shown in the above chart capital, in the form of an equity investment, is committed to finance the construction phase of a project.
Typically, senior debt is drawn first, and the equity subscription amounts are invested towards the end of the construction phase.
Positive investment cash flow or income from an investment is generally received in the form of the Unitary Payment, if an availability asset once the project is operational.
Larger payments flow to the equity investor during the last few years of a concession contract, once senior debt is fully repaid.
This is illustrated in the increase in the cash flows at the end of the concession shown in the figure above.
The present value on a discounted cash flow basis of these residual cash flows should be significant enough to largely preserve the capital value of the investment, until the distribution of these residual cash flows commences.
This is illustrated in the increase in future cash flows shown in Section 2.5 Valuation of the Portfolio, under the heading Investment Portfolio: Cash Flow Profile.
Further details on the capital structuring of a typical infrastructure investment, and the largely predictable nature of both the revenue and costs, are in the Companys 2013 Prospectus, available from the Companys website.
In future as it is part of the Acquisition Strategy, the Company may make investments in demand based projects, where the underlying revenue stream varies according to the volume or usage demands of the end-user, as opposed to its availability.
Whilst income streams are inherently less certain due to volatility in, for example, traffic volumes, rigorous research and modelling, together with trading history where available, should enable income streams to be predicted with a reasonable degree of accuracy.
An example of the typical cashflows from a demand based project such as a toll road is shown in the chart below.
Typical Toll Road Investment Cash Flow Profile Bidding Construction Ramp-Up Operation & Maintenance Steady State Phase Phase Illustrative Chart Value Typical timing for investment by the Group g 3 2 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 Financial Cash flow from Interest on and repayment of Shareholder loans, and equity distributions Increased equity dividend payments once senior debt is repaid Close 14 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 There are currently no demand based projects in the portfolio, may be partially or fully subcontracted to the FM contractor.
The although some availability projects have a small element of revenue portfolios sensitivity to the largest of these risks, the lifecycle costs, linked to usage and there are roads with shadow-toll income streams is set out in Section 2.5 Valuation of the Portfolio, under the or in the case of the A249 road, a steady-flow revenue model.
Whilst the covenant quality of the client counterpart will generally be Each project is typically leveraged with amortising debt.
The tenor of of a high standing due to the public, quasi-governmental status of the the debt tends to match the projects concession life due to the bodies that are the procuring agencies and will always be considered comfort lenders have with the covenant-quality afforded by the in isolation, the Company benefits from a diversity of procuring clients public sector clients and the contractual allocation of key risks to the across the portfolio.
The charts in Section 2.6 Investment Portfolio various subcontractors who have the financial means to bear those shows the breakdown of the ten largest investments and the balance risks, thereby reducing the financing risk.
The interest rate on the in terms of weighting relative to the overall value of the portfolio, debt is either fixed rate or inflation-linked, such that changes in which acts as a good proxy for illustrating the spread of risk.
As a interest rates are largely mitigated.
The debt raised for a project is consequence, the impact of any single client default to the overall secured against that projects cash flows alone, and so is nonGroup is considered small.
In the specific case of the Groups Health recourse to both the Group and its other investments.
projects and their NHS Trust clients, each project company also benefits from a Deed of Safeguard or similar with the UK Government, Most projects are required by their lenders to withhold some cash in whereby the project company is not left unpaid if an NHS Trust fails to reserve accounts to pay for expected future capital expenditure as perform its obligations under the contract for example if the Trust well as to potentially service debt if there are operating issues.
These cash balances are deposited across a spread of investment grade banks to mitigate default risk and the interest income, which Operating and Financing Costs is for the benefit of the project and hence the Groups investment, Certainty of operating and capital costs is also important to forecast varies according to short-term deposit rates.
In the case of social infrastructure projects, the costs associated with projects have long-term Group Financing, Gearing and Interest Rate Hedging contractual profiles determined at the outset, similar to the The Boards policy is that the Company should not hold material revenues, resulting in largely predictable investment cash flows for amounts of uninvested cash beyond what is necessary to meet the investor.
outstanding equity commitments for existing investments or to fund potential acquisitions in the near term.
New investments are typically Typically all services specified in the project agreement are funded initially by the Groups revolving credit facility.
The Board will subcontracted to specialist providers.
Construction is performed by consider the appropriate timing and price for the issuance of new a construction company or companies in joint venture, if a large shares to repay the debt, in consultation with the Companys broker.
asset on the terms of a fixed priced, date-certain, turnkey contract.
The operational services are subcontracted to one or more The Groups multi-currency revolving credit facility RCF is jointly experienced facilities manager s specialising in a particular field provided by Royal Bank of Scotland, National Australia Bank, Lloyds e. g. catering: cleaning: security: mechanical and engineering Bank and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation.
The Groups portfolio of investments has a diversified facility with a term that runs until May 2016 and a margin of 2.20%.
range of facilities management FM companies.
It is available to be drawn in cash and letters of credit for future investment obligations.
Generally, the project company vehicles do not have their own employees.
In a few cases day-to-day management is performed by To manage interest rate risk the Group may use interest rate swaps an in-house team i. e. a small number of staff directly employed or to hedge drawings under the Groups debt facility.
During the year seconded to the project company but, more typically, it is the Group did not utilise any interest rate swaps.
The terms of these Management Service Agreement MSA contracts vary, but usually Details of the new equity raised in the year to 31 March 2015 from the lengths are between 3 and 5 years.
tap issues and scrip dividend alternatives, together with figures for the Groups drawing under the RCF, the Groups gearing levels as The service standard levels set out in the concession agreement and defined by The Association of Investment Companies are set out in their key performance indicators KPIs are closely mirrored in the Section 2.4 Operational and Financial Review.
sub-contracts such that the operating risks are passed down to the individual subcontractors who are best placed to manage those Details of the Companys foreign currency hedging policy are set out risks.
The term of the operating sub-contracts normally matches the in Section 2.4 term of the concession agreement and the costs of such services are largely fixed at the outset and subject to increases linked to inflation ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE as reflected by the inflation-linked Unitary Payment.
AND PROCESSES Introduction Key project costs, where the budget and the risk sits with the project The Company, whose shares are listed on the London Stock company and therefore the equity investor, are generally the MSA Exchange, is a Guernsey-registered investment company with an contract, lifecycle costs and insurance premia.
In some cases, the independent Board of Directors.
risk sits fully with the project company, whilst in other instances it H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 15 Section 2: Strategic Report continued At the time of writing, the Company indirectly owned a portfolio of 100 infrastructure investments and is seeking to protect and enhance value through active management of the existing portfolio and the sourcing of appropriately-priced new investments using the expertise of its Investment Adviser, InfraRed Capital Partners Limited.
The Company has a 31 March year end and announces its interim results in November and full year results in May.
It also publishes two Update Statements formerly Interim Management Statements a year, normally in February and July.
Group Structure The Group structure showing the main holding entities of the Group is set out below.
Third party Investors Management administration Independent Directors HICL Infrastructure Administrator Company Guernsey Guernsey company InfraRed Investment Adviser Administrator Luxco1 Sarl SOPARFI Independent Directors Luxembourg Luxco2 Limited partner, Sarl Independent Directors SOPARFI Equity Limited partner Services Management InfraRed Limited Partnership General partner, England Operator Holding Company England Underlying investments Each of the underlying investments is made by a special purpose vehicle not shown in the structure above to ensure no  of the liabilities being, principally, the debt repayment obligations.
The two Luxembourg entities Luxco1 and Luxco2 have independent Boards and take advice on administration matters from RSM FHG Associs.
The Investment Adviser owns the general partner of the UK Limited Partnership and manages the partnership through an operator agreement.
The Companys Board and the Committees The Board of the Company comprises seven independent, non-executive Directors details on whom can be found in Section 3 Board of Directors whose role is to manage the Company in the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
In particular, the Board approves and monitors adherence to the Investment Policy and Acquisition Strategy, determines risk appetite, sets policies, agrees levels of delegation to key service providers and monitors their activities and performance including, specifically, that of the Investment Adviser against agreed objectives.
The Board will take advice from the Investment Adviser, where appropriate such as on matters concerning the market, the portfolio and new acquisition opportunities.
The Board meets regularly at least five times a year for formal Board meetings.
As referenced in Section 2.2 Strategy and Investment Policy, one of these Board meetings is devoted to considering the strategy of the Group, both in terms of potential acquisitions and the management of the current portfolio.
There are also a number of ad hoc meetings dependent upon business needs.
In addition, the Board has formed five committees, who manage risk and governance of the Company.
On four occasions a year the business of the Company spans two consecutive days to cover committee agendas as well as formal quarterly Board meetings.
Management of the portfolio, as well as investment decisions within agreed parameters, are delegated to InfraRed, as the Investment Adviser, which reports regularly to the Board.
At the quarterly Board and committee meetings, operating and financial performance of the portfolio, its valuation and the appropriateness of the risk and controls are reviewed.
16 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 During the financial year and before the expiry of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD transitional period Unlike some competitors, the Investment Adviser does not use on 22 July 2014, the Company completed its registration as a related parties for the provision of the services to project companies.
Guernsey domiciled self-managed Alternative Investment Fund Therefore, the Investment Adviser is not conflicted when it seeks to AIF under AIFMD.
The practical implications of the registration negotiate the best prices with third party service providers on behalf were modest, and mainly related to the formalisation of historic of the project company and its clients.
As a consequence, the working practices into an appropriately documented reporting Investment Adviser is fully aligned with the Company in seeking best structure and the formation of a new, designated sub-committee of possible prices under these contracts for the services rendered.
This the Board, the Risk Committee.
Further details are set out in Section negotiation will be undertaken by the Asset Managers who will then, 8 Risk Committee Report.
as an independent party, monitor the operational performance delivered by the appointed facilities manager to ensure compliance The Investment Adviser with the contractual standards demanded in the project agreements.
The Investment Adviser since launch is InfraRed Capital Partners Limited, part of the InfraRed Group.
Portfolio Management duties are performed by another designated part of the Investment Advisers team.
The individuals will provide a The Company has an Investment Advisory Agreement with InfraRed wide range of tasks for the Group, including treasury and cash which can be terminated with 12 months notice.
InfraRed is also the management, valuation work and related portfolio value operator of the Groups Limited Partnership, through which the Groups enhancement initiatives.
A more detailed description is provided in investments are held.
Details of the fees paid to InfraRed in respect of Section 2.2 Strategy and Investment Policy, under the heading its Investment Adviser services are set out in Section 2.4 Operational Value Enhancement.
and Financial Review and Note 17 of the financial statements.
The InfraRed Group Origination The InfraRed Group is a privately owned, dedicated infrastructure All potential investment opportunities are carefully screened by the and real estate investment business, managing a range of Investment Adviser, initially to determine whether the opportunity is infrastructure and real estate funds and investments.
The InfraRed suitable for the Company, including assessing the counterparties Group has a strong record of delivering attractive returns for its and the jurisdiction.
investors, which include pension funds, insurance companies, funds of funds, asset managers and high net worth investors domiciled in Any investment proposition needs to be fully assessed and vetted by the UK, Europe, North America, Middle East and Asia.
InfraReds Infrastructure Investment Committee and Infrastructure Executive Committee, and these committees meet on a number of The InfraRed Group currently manages five infrastructure funds and occasions before an investment is acquired for the Group.
Detailed five real estate funds with total equity under management of more commercial and technical due diligence is undertaken by the team.
than US$8 billion and has over 120 employees and partners, based Third party legal, technical and insurance due diligence is mainly in London and with smaller offices in Hong Kong, New York, commissioned as appropriate to support the acquisition.
Principal Paris, Seoul and Sydney.
investigations relate to ensuring that projects are appropriately structured, the pass-down of obligations to subcontractors is Since 1998, the InfraRed Group has raised or launched successfully adequate, and that all material counterparties are creditworthy.
13 private institutional investment funds investing in infrastructure and real estate, in addition to the Company and The Renewables Asset and Portfolio Management Infrastructure Group Limited which are publicly listed investment The Investment Advisers team includes a dedicated Asset companies.
The InfraRed Group is 80.1 per cent.
owned by 26 Management function, the team members of which perform an partners through InfraRed Capital Partners Management LLP, and important role monitoring project performance for service issues 19.9 per cent.
owned by a subsidiary of HSBC.
This ownership which may indicate financial difficulties or strained relations with the structure was the result of a management buyout from HSBC of the client.
This is achieved by building and pro-actively maintaining good specialist infrastructure and real estate business which was open relationships with all of the stakeholders who are contractually previously known as HSBC Specialist Investments Limited HSIL, associated with the Groups projects, especially public sector clients which was completed in April 2011. and the facilities management teams performing the day-to-day management under the MSA contracts see Operating and Financing The infrastructure investment team within the InfraRed Group currently Costs above.
The team currently has 12 years on average experience in the infrastructure sector, and 6 years on Details of the practical functions performed by the Asset Managers average with the InfraRed Group including predecessor organisations, are set out in Active Management and Value Enhancement above.
and has a broad range of relevant skills, including private equity, To achieve results, individuals are appointed as directors of the structured finance, construction and facilities management.
project companies in which the Group invests.
As part of their role in actively managing the portfolio, they attend board meetings and make appropriate decisions.
Material decisions are referred back to the Investment Advisers Investment Committee and Executive Committee, as appropriate, for consideration and determination.
