Section 2: Strategic Report The Companys other financial return objective is to preserve the capital 2.1 OVERVIEW, APPROACH, OBJECTIVES, value of its investment portfolio and deliver an element of capital HISTORY AND STRUCTURE growth, as reflected in its longer-term return target.
In February 2013, Overview at the time of the Companys most recent share issuance prospectus, a A closed-ended, London Stock Exchange-listed investment company, long-term total return target for new investors of approximately 7% per the Company invests shareholders funds into a portfolio of annum was set by reference to the issue price of 119.5p per new share.
infrastructure projects generating stable, inflation-linked cash flows This remains achievable.
For the period since 31 March 2014 until 31 on an attractive risk-adjusted basis.
March 2015, and from IPO until 31 March 2015, the total shareholder return has been 22.5% p. a. and 11.1% p. a. respectively, as measured Through active management by the Investment Adviser of the by share price appreciation and dividends.
Groups investments in the projects, the Company earns a return that allows it to pay a predictable and sustainable quarterly dividend to Positive inflation correlation and an ability to pay cash-covered shareholders, as well as preserve the capital value of the investment dividends are key attributes of the Groups operating cash flow portfolio.
In addition, through value enhancement and investment receipts and attractions of the portfolio.
To support the above two selection strategies, there is potential for an element of capital return objectives, the Company targets investments where the growth over the long term.
positive correlation is maintained and, where possible, enhanced, and the acquisitions are value-accretive to the existing portfolio.
Approach Sectors, Geographies and Asset Characteristics The Company is a buy-and-hold equity investor in social, Shareholder Protection transportation and similar infrastructure projects.
These investments Important additional financial objectives to protect shareholders provide serviced assets, typically to public sector or quasi-public interests are: sector clients, across a number of sectors including education, health, justice, road, rail and for other general accommodation needs such to reduce income and balance sheet volatility that might arise from as libraries, barracks and social housing.
The majority of the Groups holding investments denominated in currencies other than Sterling: investments are in operational projects which have successfully completed their construction phase.
The portfolio as at 20 May 2015 to avoid holding material amounts of uninvested cash on the comprises 100 investments which are in projects located primarily in balance sheet cash drag by the appropriate use of gearing to the UK, but also in Australia, Canada, France, Ireland and Holland.
make new investments, with subsequent equity issuance: to manage the Groups affairs with respect to matters such as tax, The projects are typically structured under a public sector regulation, in an appropriate and not overly aggressive way: infrastructure procurement model called PFI PF2 or PPP in the UK, to provide access to a diversified portfolio of investments in and PPP or P3 elsewhere, which affords a number of attractive terms of clients, funders and supply-chain contractors and features to investors, namely long-term contracts with public sector thereby mitigate concentration risk: and clients, with project revenues normally with inflation-linkage.
to moderate the share price premium and avoid dilution on a Further detail is provided in Section 2.3 Business Model, NAV per share basis to existing shareholders during equity Organisational Structure and Processes.
Objectives Non-Financial Objectives The objectives of the Company can be categorised as follows: In addition to tangible and objectively measurable financial targets, the Company has softer, non-financial objectives.
Principally these Financial Objectives Shareholder Return relate to fulfilling a positive role in the community and the wider infrastructure space, by investing and actively managing infrastructure Yield and Capital Growth assets in a responsible and publically accountable manner.
The Companys principal financial return objective is a long-term yield for shareholders.
This is delivered through the Companys The objectives are: dividend target an annual distribution of at least that achieved this year, being 7.30p per share in aggregate, with the prospect of to seek and maintain strong relationships with all key increasing the figure provided it is sustainable with regard to the stakeholders of both the Company and the Groups investments: portfolios forecast operational performance and the prevailing macro-economic outlook.
Dividends have increased year-on-year to manage the Group and its investments in accordance with the since launch in 2006, with the Company having met or exceeded its Companys Corporate Social Responsible statements and policies dividend targets to date.
See Section 2.9 Corporate Social Responsibility for details : through disclosure, case studies and site visits, to inform As guidance, the Board has set a revised target distribution for the shareholders and potential investors and increase the year to 31 March 2016 of 7.45p per share.
In May 2014, the Board understanding of the infrastructure investment class.
announced a move to quarterly dividends to provide shareholders with a more regular income return.
