Key Accounting Policies continued h Foreign exchange gains and losses Transactions entered into by the Consolidated Group in a currency other than its functional currency are recorded at the rates ruling when the transactions occur.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of unsettled monetary assets and liabilities are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
i Segmental and geographical reporting The Chief Operating Decision Maker the CODM is of the opinion that the Consolidated Group is engaged in a single segment of business, being investment in infrastructure which is currently predominately in private finance initiatives and public private partnership companies in one geographical area, the United Kingdom.
The Consolidate Group derives revenue materially from the United Kingdom but none from Guernsey.
The Consolidated Group has no single major customer.
The financial information used by the CODM to allocate resources and manage the Consolidated Group presents the business as a single segment comprising a homogeneous portfolio.
j Expenses All expenses, including the profit share of the General Partner of Infrastructure Investments Limited Partnership refer to Note 17, are accounted for on an accruals basis.
The Consolidated Groups investment management and administration fees, finance costs and all other expenses are charged through the consolidated income statement.
k Dividends Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable.
In the case of interim dividends, this is when they are paid.
In the case of final dividends, this is when they are approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
For scrip dividends, where the Company issues shares with an equal value to the cash dividend amount as an alternative to the cash dividend, a credit to equity is recognised when the shares are issued.
l Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Consolidated Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Consolidated Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
m Statement of compliance Pursuant to the Protection of Investors Bailiwick of Guernsey Law, 1987 the Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme.
As an authorised scheme, the Company is subject to certain ongoing obligations to the Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
Following formal implementation of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, the Company took advantage of the transitional provisions which extended the deadline for authorisation or registration until 22 July 2014.
The Company is regarded as an Alternative Investment Fund AIF, and the Company registered as a self-managed AIF in July 2014.
Critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect reported amounts.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are outlined below.
Investments at fair value through profit or loss By virtue of the Companys status as an investment fund and the exemption provided by IAS 28 and IFRS 11 as well as the adoption of Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27, investments are designated upon initial recognition to be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Fair values for those investments for which a market quote is not available are determined using the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows at the appropriate rate.
In determining the discount rate, regard is had to relevant long term government bond yields, specific risks and the evidence of recent transactions.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the PFI PPP P3 investments share the same investment characteristics and as such constitute a single asset class for IFRS 7 disclosure purposes.
The weighted average discount rate applied in the March 2015 valuation was 7.9% 2014: 8.2%.
The discount rate is considered one of the most significant unobservable inputs through which an increase or decrease would have a material impact on the fair value of the investments at fair value through profit or loss.
