Section 2: Strategic Report continued History and Structure manage the processes and analysis which underpin the draft semiThe Company was the first infrastructure investment company to list annual valuation of the Groups portfolio submitted to the Board: on the main market of the London Stock Exchange, raising 250m at ensure good financial management of the Group and each its IPO in March 2006.
Since then, the Company has raised a further investment, having regard to accounting, tax, and debt 1.2 billion through subsequent equity issues.
It is the largest Londoncovenants: and listed infrastructure investment company, with a present market maintain efficient treasury processes e. g. cash and debt at the capitalisation of 1.9 billion and daily liquidity of over 2 million shares.
Group level, and hedging of non-sterling investments.
The Company benefits from a Board comprising seven independent Asset Management complements Portfolio Management and is non-executive Directors, while the investment management of the focused on the successful management and operational Group is undertaken by the Investment Adviser and Operator, performance of the Groups investments at project level with a heavy InfraRed Capital Partners Limited, an experienced investment focus on client engagement.
Activities include: manager with over US$8bn of equity under management and 120 staff, with 50 individuals engaged in infrastructure investment and management oversight of each investment through the asset management from four of InfraReds six international offices.
appointment of at least one director to each project company board: where the project involves the construction of new facilities, 2.2 STRATEGY AND INVESTMENT POLICY frequent monitoring of progress to ensure successful delivery: The Companys strategy for delivering its target shareholder return pro-actively building and maintaining closer, open stakeholder objectives can be segmented broadly into three, non-distinct areas, relationships at project company level, especially with respect to as follows: enhancing client satisfaction levels with overall operations: the ongoing management of the Groups portfolio: facilitating early resolution of operational issues as they arise, including contractual disputes: and the enhancement of returns from the Groups portfolio: and introducing new environmental, social and enhanced governance the selection and pricing of suitable new investments.
initiatives in each project company, where appropriate.
Each element is described in detail below but, in broad terms, the Value Enhancement asset management and enhancement initiatives are aimed at The primary focus for the Investment Adviser is to ensure that each protecting and improving the yield that the Company seeks to deliver project performs to the required contractual standard that the client to shareholders through cash-covered dividends.
Once achieved, the secondary focus is to find and evaluate pricing and selection of new investments helps to deliver the growth value enhancement opportunities typically potential savings and in the portfolios value, which would otherwise trend down, over efficiency upsides for both the project and its public sector client.
time, given the finite life and limited, if any, residual value of the This is achieved by the Investment Advisers Asset Management and long-term concession contracts see Section 2.3 Business Model, Portfolio Management teams based on a review of all the projects Organisational Structure and Processes for details.
costs and by drawing on their experience of implementing a range of similarly focused initiatives across the wider portfolio.
In any event, Active Management efficiencies and savings will only be implemented where they do not The principal goal of active management is to ensure that the detrimentally impact either the services being provided or the operations and performance of each investment in the portfolio are quality of the service-level delivery.
delivered in accordance with the Companys expectations and, accordingly, the anticipated or base case investment return In terms of specifics, the Portfolio Management teams are generally envisaged by the Companys forecasts is achieved.
focused on finding savings from treasury portfolio operations.
These often, though not always, occur as a consequence of the benefit of InfraRed, as Investment Adviser, is tasked by the Board with the dayeconomies of scale that the Company possesses by owning stakes in to-day management of the portfolio.
This management task is over 100 projects e. g. via group insurance premia savings and carried out by two functions within the Investment Advisers team: treasury management financial efficiencies and or by increasing its Portfolio Management and Asset Management.
controlling stake in a project through a follow-on investment e. g. an arms-length re-tendering of the management services agreement Portfolio Management is concerned with the financial performance upon acquisition of a projects entire equity interest.
Alternatively, and, working closely with the Asset Managers, it seeks to: savings may occur as a one-off event e. g. a refinancing of a projects debt at lower margins.
In that instance, a significant proportion of monitor the financial performance of each investment against the benefit will accrue to the client, either through a one-off payment Group targets and forecasts: or through a reduction in the project life Unitary Payments that are consider the portfolio composition and mix with respect to due to be made, whilst potentially providing additional upside to the achieving the Groups desired target returns within the agreed project company, and therefore the Group.
risk appetite: manage the investment cash flows from the Groups investments: minimise cash drag having uninvested cash on the balance sheet and improve cash efficiency generally: 10 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 The Asset Managers also work together with project companies and after prior discussion and agreement from the Board.
Whilst clients to achieve asset-specific cost savings, efficiencies and operational social and transportation infrastructure assets such as contract variations, both to extend the scope of the project, or, in PFI PPP P3 concessions remain core, other areas of focus include: other instances, transition to a reduced set of obligations, as the situation requires.
As with the Portfolio Managements work, cost Investments in transportation projects, where income is from savings and efficiencies generally accrue to both the client and the user-paid revenue streams and can be evaluated against good project company.
A sample of certain material contract variations quality operational data and solid investment metrics: overseen by the Asset Management team during the year is provided Investments in transmission lines, for example with in Section 2.4 Operational and Financial Review, under the heading characteristics similar to the UK Offshore Transmission lines Asset Management and Contract Variations.
OFTOs which have availability-type payment mechanisms: and Investments in projects under construction.
The Investment Adviser has become a signatory to the voluntary code of conduct introduced by HM Treasury to set out the basis on Currently, only 5% by value of the portfolio is under construction and which public and private sector partners agree to work together to this could increase without coming close to the cap in the Investment make savings in operational PPP contracts.
The Asset Management Policy of 35% by value with other asset categories.
team has been successful in proposing saving initiatives to project clients in line with the code.
In addition to the annual day dedicated to reviewing the Acquisition Strategy, the Board and its Risk Committee review the overall Group Investment Selection and Pricing strategy and risk appetite on a quarterly basis to ensure they Any new investment needs to meet the Acquisition Strategy which the continue to be appropriate.
Company reviews and publishes regularly, as well as the over-arching restrictions and caps imposed by the Investment Policy.
Further, all Investment Policy new investments need to support the achievement of the Objectives A summarised form of the Companys Investment Policy follows.
For set out in Section 2.1 Overview, Approach, Objectives, History and full wording, please refer to the Companys website.
Structure above, and balance the risks involved against the projected forecast returns, to enable the Company to achieve its long-term Risk-Reward Characteristics targets without materially changing the risk profile of the Group.
The Company is seeking to acquire infrastructure equity with similar risk-reward characteristics to the current portfolio, which may A key aspect of supporting the achievement of the objectives is to include but is not limited to : acquire new investments which are value accretive to the current portfolio.
Accretion can be achieved through the initial gross yield, public sector, government-backed or regulated revenues: the potential total return, and the inflation correlation.
Part of the attraction of the Companys investment portfolio is its positive concessions which are predominantly availability based correlation to inflation described in more detail in Section 2.5 i. e. payments from the concession with do not generally depend Valuation of the Portfolio.
An important consideration of any new on the level of use of the project asset : and or investment is the degree to which this correlation is maintained or, companies in the regulated utilities sector, if of an where possible, enhanced.
InfraReds dedicated infrastructure team uses a variety of channels The Group will also seek to enhance returns for Shareholders by to source investments for the Group.
These include acquiring stakes acquiring more diverse infrastructure investments see context from exiting co-shareholders of existing projects e. g. an interest provided in Acquisition Strategy above.
The Directors currently held by the contractor on its balance sheet where it wishes to divest intend that the Group may invest in aggregate up to 35% of its total to realise funds for future operational activities, soliciting an offassets at the time of investment in: market transaction through a relationship within its extensive network of investment partners and advisors, or through competitive projects which have not yet completed construction, but where auctions in the wider market.
prospective yield characteristics and associated risks are deemed appropriate to the Companys investment objectives: Acquisition Strategy projects with demand based concessions where the Investment In September 2014, the Directors held a one day Board meeting, with Adviser considers that demand and stability of revenues are not yet the Investment Adviser, which was dedicated to reviewing and established but that, due to the levels of diligence and analysis determining the overall strategy of the Group: in particular the scope undertaken, the revenue risks are acceptable to the Group: and relevance of the current Acquisition Strategy.
The review projects which do not have public sector sponsored awarded or involved a fundamental analysis of certain market segments to government-backed concessions: and or ensure they would deliver investments that were complementary or additive to the existing portfolio.
The Acquisition Strategy, which has to a lesser extent, other funds that make infrastructure been consistently applied since May 2009, has been reaffirmed investments and or financial instruments and securities issued subject to some small changes in emphasis which were driven by by companies that make infrastructure investments, or whose market conditions.
In terms of geographic focus, preferred activities are similar or comparable to infrastructure investments.
jurisdictions for investment remain the UK, certain countries in Europe, North America, and Australasia.
Countries outside these regions might be considered by the Investment Adviser, but only H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 11
