Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 1.
Reporting Entity HICL Infrastructure Company Limited the Company is a company domiciled in Guernsey, Channel Islands, whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 31 March 2015 comprise the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries see Note 21, together referred to as the Consolidated Group and together with its investments, the Group.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has all the typical characteristics of an investment entity and the three essential criteria specific in the standard and therefore the Company continues to apply Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27.
In addition, certain subsidiaries provide specific investment management services and undertake investment activities that require the results of those subsidiaries to be consolidated in the Group financial statements.
The three essential criteria are that the entity must: 1.
Obtain funds from one or more investors for the purpose of providing these investors with professional investment management services: 2.
Commit to its investors that its business purpose is to invest its funds solely for returns from capital appreciation, investment income or both: and 3.
Measure and evaluate the performance of substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
At 31 March 2014, Infrastructure Investments Holdings Limited was included in the Consolidated Group.
The involvement of Infrastructure Investments Holdings Limited in bidding activities has changed since 31 March 2014 and hence it no longer provides investment related services and is no longer eligible for consolidation by the Company and therefore no longer forms part of the Consolidated Group, effective from 1 April 2014.
Following the meeting of the International Accounting Standards Board IASB in October 2014, Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 was issued in December 2014.
This is a revision to the Investment Entity Amendment currently applied by the Company and states that investment entities should measure all of their subsidiaries that are themselves investment entities at fair value and in effect could result in no subsidiaries being consolidated.
The potential impact on the Companys financial statements is unclear at this point, although should HICL Infrastructure 1 SARL, HICL Infrastructure 2 SARL and Infrastructure Investments Limited Partnership no longer be consolidated by the Company, it is not expected to impact either earnings or net assets materially when the amendments become applicable to the Companys financial statements in the financial year ending 31 March 2017.
In accordance with section 244 5 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as the Directors have prepared consolidated financial statements for the period, they have not prepared individual statements for the Company in accordance with section 243 for the period.
Key accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 20 May 2015.
The consolidated financial statements, which give a true and fair view, have been prepared in compliance with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU using the historical cost basis, except that the financial instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss are stated at their fair values.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently in these consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Companys functional currency.
The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU, requires the Directors and advisers to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Note 3 shows critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions.
The Consolidated Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in Section 2.2 and 2.3 on pages 10 to 18.
The financial position of the Consolidated Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in Sections 2.4 and 2.5 on pages 18 to 26.
In addition, Notes 1 to 4 of the financial statements include the Consolidated Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
