Section 2: Strategic Report continued Importantly, for alignment of interests and transparency, all 2.9 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY directors fees paid by the projects are for the benefit of the Group, The business of the Company is to make investments via the Group in and not the Investment Adviser.
infrastructure assets, to hold these investments and to manage the portfolio of investments to achieve an acceptable return for On a routine basis, supported by a comprehensive annual audit, the shareholders.
In managing the Company and the Group, the Directors Investment Adviser undertakes a review to ensure that each key have ensured that procedures and policies have been put in place by contractor or their group has appropriate ESG policies in place, that the Group and its service providers to manage the Group effectively these are being adhered to in the delivery of the services to the and responsibly with respect to all the Groups stakeholders.
project and that there have been no material breaches.
To achieve this end, the Investment Adviser has developed a proprietary Principles of Responsible Investment system, including bespoke questionnaires, for monitoring The Investment Adviser is a signatory to the Principles for compliance which are filled in by each project company from its Responsible Investment the Principles, formerly known as the perspective.
The results of the 2014-15 audit indicated that a couple United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment, which are of specific items required an action plan and focus, but no issues of widely recognised and regarded around the world.
The principles can concern were flagged.
be summarised as follows: In parallel with the questionnaires, the Investment Adviser has To incorporate Environmental, Social and Governance ESG developed a set of 30 KPIs for monitoring project companies ESG checks into investment analysis and decision-making credentials.
The results of each metric are appropriately weighted to To be active owners and incorporate ESG controls into ownership derive a single grade for the project from a four-point scoring system.
policies and practices Whilst the evaluation process is still ongoing, there has been a 100% To seek appropriate disclosures on ESG issues by the entities in response rate and zero failures from all the projects within the which the investments are made process up to the end of 2014, and two-thirds were awarded one of To promote acceptance and implementation of the Principles the top two categorisations of leader or performer.
within the investment industry As part of the detailed due diligence carried out by the Investment To report on activities and progress towards implementing Adviser, a potential investment will be assessed to ensure the Principles compliance with the Groups ESG policies and that there have been no materials breaches in respect of the project.
Where there have The Investment Adviser has incorporated the Principles within its been significant failings and it is not possible to get comfortable with business where relevant.
As part of this, it has also been using the either a key contractors ESG record or the projects ESG performance Groups role as a shareholder in each project to request that each to date, the investment will not be made.
project company report against the Groups approved ESG policies.
The Board believes the Groups ESG policies are appropriate for a Health and Safety performance of each investment is monitored and company investing in infrastructure assets and conform to current each year a number of Health and Safety audits are carried out by good practice in relation to corporate responsibility.
ESG is Health and Safety consultants to ensure appropriate procedures and discussed at each Board meeting and the Group is monitored against policies are in place and being adhered to.
Information on Health and is ESG policies.
Safety is reported to the Board via the Risk Committee on a quarterly basis.
On a typical routine reporting basis, this takes the Environmental, Social and Governance Policies form of an eponymous RIDDOR report, which relates to the All of the Groups investments are in project companies which Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences provide services to their clients and which subcontract the provision Regulations and the duties it imposes.
of these services to specialist facilities management companies.
The Group is entitled to appoint at least one director to the board of each Rather than being project-specific, the Companys ESG policies and project company and these positions have all been filled by a person procedures have been implemented across the whole portfolio.
This nominated by the Group.
Board meetings are not quorate without includes standing agenda items such as: the Groups nominated director being present and this self-imposed stipulation is reflective of the Groups active oversight of the Directors conflicts of interest, which are discussed and recorded underlying investments.
in the Company register at each project company board meeting.
If any exist, these are discussed and a solution agreed.
The governance structures also provide for matters which are reserved for shareholders to determine, those items which directors Health and Safety compliance determine and the routine day-to-day matters that are delegated to Cost saving and or efficiency programme initiatives the projects general manager and his or her team.
In circumstances Risk controls and mitigants where it is not possible to achieve board representation on the underlying investment company with appropriate voting rights and With the enactment of the UK Bribery Act 2010, the Investment reserved matters to properly manage the investment and achieve the Adviser has developed appropriate polices and ensures that these are projected returns, it is unlikely that the investment will be approved.
adopted by all project companies in which the Group has invested.
50 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 The Board has reviewed its performance and the performance of its In addition to the employment initiative mentioned above, at Oxford service providers over the last 12 months and can confirm John Radcliffe Hospital the project company and supply chain compliance with the Companys ESG policies.
On the basis of the supported a Posters of Promises project run by the Trust.
The Investment Advisers recommendations, the Directors have purposes of the initiative was to illustrate and communicate to considered the existing ESG policies relative to good industry young patients and their families the nursing and midwifery practice as applicable to an infrastructure Investment Company and standards developed by the Trust through the installation of posters believe that they are current and appropriate.
on each level of the hospital.
The project also took part in a sponsored Oxford Male Five Mile Fun Run around Blenheim Palace, Specific ESG Initiatives in the Year raising funds for the hospitals charity to support treatment at the Each individual project is responsible for developing environmental onsite Childrens Hospital.
and social projects that match with the community needs of the client, the users and wider community that benefits from the projects At the University of Sheffield, the project commenced a new initiative facilities.
As a result, the range and variation of initiatives across the in the year, namely the Catalyst Scholarship.
The programme offers portfolio is very wide.
The activities are promoted within a project by free accommodation for the year to a student who has suffered a the Groups nominated director typically a member of the Investment difficult home life situation.
The Company was delighted to receive a Advisers Asset Management team and the initiatives include not letter from the current recipient, in which she outlined the very only activities delivered or sponsored directly by the project company, positive impact the bursary has had for her namely, relieving her but also by the whole supply chain linked with the relevant project, from the time commitment of pursuing work to support her studies, and working in conjunction with the client.
For the purposes of thereby enabling her to participate in a host of voluntary work, describing specific activities below, the term project or project competitions and other worthwhile extracurricular activities, company will be used to reference this wider group.
Set out below alongside her demanding legal studies.
are selected activities that illustrate this range and have been supported across the Groups portfolio during the year.
In addition to the Catalyst Scholarship, the project continues to sponsor the University of Sheffields Elite Sports Performance Social Scheme by providing an accommodation bursary for a student The requirements relating to a school are different from those of a selected by the University for their gold level award.
To be eligible hospital and therefore the type of initiatives carried out across the for selection, the student must be at a level where they represent the portfolio can be considerably different.
In a hospital project, a country in one of Sport Englands recognised sports in this common initiative is to provide sponsorship of awards which are instance, speed climbing.
Sport is particularly important to the organised by the Trust to reward excellence and dedication on the University of Sheffield and the project supports a number of part of their staff.
Measures such as these, that improve the initiatives run by Sport Sheffield, the Universitys sports department, performance, standards and reputation of the end client, help to which enable students to engage with, and contribute to, the wider reflect well on the project overall and are therefore worthy of support community through sport.
Staff awards were sponsored by the project companies at Tameside General Hospital NHS Foundation Trust The project company for the Dutch High Speed Rail Link has, in Tameside General Hospital, Birmingham & Solihull Mental Health conjunction with other partners, provided funding for a local Foundation Trust Birmingham New Hospitals Project, as well as basketball team that offers access to sport for deprived children.
East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust Blackburn Hospital Project.
At Salford Royal Hospital, the project company provided sponsorship Hospitals are generally significant employers in their local area and of the sportswear used by the Trusts team for their participation in many of the employment opportunities relate to services that are the NHS Games.
provided by the project company and its supply chain.
At Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital, the project company supported a wider Trust At the Northwood MOD Headquarters, the project company hosts a initiative with the Princes Trust a youth charity which organises local food bank as part of a wider Business in the Community programmes to offer engagement, confidence, life skills and Programme run in collaboration with the client.
personal development for those who are unemployed, struggling at school and or at risk of exclusion to generate work experience At Queen Alexandra Hospital, the project company provides financial opportunities and training opportunities for mentees of the charity.
and volunteered labour support for the restoration of a disused In a similar vein at Bradford Schools, the project company provided community centre and outdoor community swimming pool, as well as support to a Careers Fair for students at the schools, while at the to a charity dedicated to providing short-respite holidays to families Miles Platting Housing project in Manchester, a back to work club with children suffering from terminal or life-threatening illness.
for the residents of the projects housing is just one of many initiatives organised for the benefit of the local community.
At Edinburgh Schools, the service provider recruited a sixth-form leaver as a trainee facilities manager who will, as part of their formal training, undertake the industry-standard British Institute of Facilities Management accreditation.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 51 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Extra-curricular activities predominantly motivational and physical A recycling awareness competition was supported by the project enhancement programmes form an important part of the education company at Newport School and the grounds facilities were used to for the students at the Defence Sixth Form College, who are on support a St Davids Foundation Charity run.
At South Ayrshire sponsorship programmes with one of the three Armed Services or Schools, the project company donated funds to buy ornaments for a Defence-related Government Departments.
The project company uses pupil garden, the development and budget for which was managed funds generated from the sale of the old laptops previously issued to by pupils.
At the same project, wood from a diseased Scots Pine tree former students to support worthy pupils who would not otherwise be that had to be removed for landscaping reasons was used to create able to partake in such activities.
In the year to 31 March 2015, 14 furniture for the external play areas.
An eco-garden was created at students were supported in taking part in a range of outdoor pursuits.
one of the schools within the Renfrewshire, Schools project in Scotland, in relation to which the project company contributed 50% Support was provided to a fire safety session provided by the of the costs.
At another school a nursery in the project, an area client at Dorset Fire and Rescue for children from a local primary suitable for the cultivation was created as part of a learning and school, including a trip to Poundbury Fire Station and a screening experience exercise for the children.
In a similar vein a proposal to of How to Train Your Dragon II a light-hearted film, to foster create a conservation garden to be maintained by the pupils is being links in the community.
Environment The Allenby and Connaught Ministry of Defence Accommodation At Kicking Horse Canyon in Canada, wildlife crossings were project has a charity support culture that focuses on military charities.
introduced to facilitate safe passage for the many bears, moose, It encompasses direct contributions from the project as well as direct wolves, elk, deer, and mountain goats that live in the area.
In contributions from supply chain partners.
There is extensive voluntary addition, works were undertaken to establish a Compensation support by the local project management team including local 2 2 Habitat, creating 8,000 m of riparian habitat, 2,000 m of in-stream community activity across schools, scout groups and a bird sanctuary.
fish habitat, planting of 6,000 new trees, and reclaiming of an As part of the estate redevelopment programme, micro combined heat abandoned highway to be reused as a recreational trail.
Partner and power units and solar thermal systems have been included in the agencies on these endeavours include the Pacific Salmon latest phases that have resulted in combined savings of approximately Foundation, who perform ongoing monitoring of the operation to 1,300 tonnes of carbon dioxide per annum.
ensure that environmental objectives are being met.
Energy consumption levels associated with projects are often significant and schemes to reduce the carbon footprint and thereby reduce cost are frequently carried out.
A recent example was the installation of energy-efficient LED lighting at Cork School of Music in a drive to help the school to achieve an energy accreditation.
At West Middlesex Hospital, the project company is exploring a potential initiative to use standby generators a necessary and standard safety requirement in hospitals as a means to provide intermittent power to the National Grid when they are not required locally.
In an era of increasing green energy production from natural resources such as wind and solar, where output is susceptible to the vagaries of the weather system, the use of intermittent power generators are a necessary balancing tool for the National Grid to manage the countrys electricity supply and demands at all time.
This initiative is therefore a small but worthy effort to help the nations gradual shift towards its renewable energy generation targets.
It is hoped that, if successful, the learning from this exercise would be used for the benefit of other projects.
