The strategy captured the net carry, and additionally successful trading and rotation of hedges helped to both mitigate mark-to-market movements of the underlying asset and contribute to performance.
The Trade Credit Opportunities sub-strategy also contributed positively, with solid returns coming in the first and third quarter.
The Commodity Finance sub-strategy detracted from performance as mining related assets were negatively impacted by declining gold prices.
Over the course of 2015 the fund reduced its exposure to the Trade Credit Opportunities sub-strategy in favour of the Bank Basel III sub-strategy.
The Bank Basel III sub-strategy saw increased opportunities amid continued pressure on bank balance sheets and more active promotion of securitisation by authorities as a mechanism to stimulate credit provision to the real economy.
The exposure to the Commodity Finance substrategy remained low as it continues to be wound down as opportunities present themselves.
BLUECREST EQUITY STRATEGIES Solid performance in 2015 saw gains delivered across both the Equity Long Short and Event Driven & Relative Value strategies, with the latter producing the slightly higher performance.
Regionally it was the European portfolios that led performance, accounting for just over half of the gross returns, with North American portfolios contributing just almost 40% and Asia Pacific a little under 10%.
The large volumes of corporate activity provided a good environment for the Event Driven & Relative Value strategies, with all regions delivering positive performance.
Within the Long Short strategies, Europe and North America contributed positively, whilst Asia Pacific detracted modestly.
Sector performance saw most sectors contribute to the Long Short portfolio performance, with only the Technology, Media and Telecommunications sector detracting modestly: the strongest contributions to Long Short performance came from the Financials sector, and also generalist portfolios trading across sectors.
BLUETREND BLUETREND 2X LEVERAGED AllBlues exposure to the BlueTrend strategy was originally obtained via the standard fund, however was switched to the twice leveraged vehicle as of 1 July 2015.
The comments below capture aggregate contributions for AllBlues exposure through these two vehicles.
Over the period, four sectors contributed positively to performance and three detracted.
The strongest contribution came from the energy sector, which had an incredibly strong second half of the year: short positions benefitted as prices fell in response to increased supply and falling demand.
The metal sector also contributed well, once again driven by performance in the second half of the year.
The third sector within the commodity complex, the agricultural commodities, detracted after seeing challenging performance throughout most of the year.
Performance of the FX sector oscillated over the year, and produced a negative contribution in total.
The Equity sector also experienced volatility, with a very strong February, a tough June and then Decembers detraction turning the sector negative for the year.
The two fixed income sectors, of Bonds and Short Term Page 84 v. 2.7
