Interest Rates both contributed positively, with most of their return coming in the first half of the year.
BLUECREST QUANTITATIVE EQUITY At the regional level the strongest performance came from the European and North American portfolios, whilst the Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets region detracted.
The contribution across all signal families was similar, with Alternative signals providing slightly stronger contributions and Traditional signals slightly weaker at the global level.
Within the Traditional family, the Value signal was the worst performer with negative contributions in all regions, whilst the Analyst Estimates signal was the best performer in each region.
Within the Alternative family, the Company Linkages signal was the strongest performer in North America but was weaker in Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets: the News and Events signal was strongest in both Europe and Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets.
Alpha Capture was a solid performer within the Proprietary family for all regions, although the Anti Noise Trader signal was strongest in both Europe and Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets.
The portfolio maintained its neutral exposure throughout the year, and gross exposure averaged approx.
THE SEVEN FUNDS UNDERLYING ALLBLUE A global macro strategy, with a strong fixed income focus.
Strategies include directional and curve trading, driven by macro views around central bank activities, BlueCrest their likely actions and market reactions that will impact the level of rates and the Capital shape of the yield curve.
Also relative value which looks to identify anomalies International across the fixed income markets.
A macro strategy that looks to identify opportunities across currency, local interest BlueCrest rates, sovereign and quasi-sovereign credit markets, with a focus on liquidity.
The strategy trades throughout Latin America, the Middle East, Central and Eastern Emerging Markets Europe, Africa and Asia.
BlueCrest Engages in opportunities across the full credit spectrum of corporate and sovereign Multi Strategy debt markets, implementing strategies such as long short credit, credit volatility and capital structure arbitrage.
Credit Invests in bonds and loans associated with the production and trade of commercial goods and commodities and then hedges out the associated risks.
The credits are BlueCrest purchased from commercial banks who are under pressure to remove them from Mercantile their balance sheets in order to manage risk concentration and to adhere to regulatory requirements.
BlueCrest Equity Engages in long short and event driven strategies across global equity markets by Strategies taking a multi-trader, multi strategy approach.
A global systematic trend following strategy that trades in excess of 150 liquid BlueTrend markets covering asset classes including equities, fixed income, foreign exchange, energy, metals and agricultural commodities.
A global systematic equity market neutral strategy that draws upon a wide variety of fundamental and technical inputs, as well as other sources.
The portfolio BlueCrest construction process incorporates a sophisticated in-house risk model which seeks Quantitative Equity to maintain market neutrality at the regional level, as well as limiting exposures to other factors such as size or liquidity.
