Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
"ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union ""IFRS"" and applicable Guernsey law."
The Financial Statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis except for the measurement at fair value of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss.
The Financial Statements are presented in Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
b Going concern As described in Note 9, should the average 12 month discount at which the shares of any class trade to their net asset value exceed 5% of net asset value per share, the Company was obliged to offer a continuation vote to class shareholders.
This requirement to offer a continuation vote was triggered in respect of the Sterling Share Class during November 2015.
However, the announcement from the BlueCrest funds concerning a return of capital to investors further described in Note 16 was received before a continuation vote was held, and so a replacement resolution was put to shareholders of both Classes at the meetings held on 24 February.
As at the statement of financial position date, the Directors had obtained feedback from several shareholders indicating that they wished the Company to continue with a revised investment objective and the Board were well advanced in their selection of a successor Investment Manager.
At that time, the Company had adequate financial resources and as a consequence of the feedback they had received, the Directors believed the Company was well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors had at that time and still have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial information.
c Taxation The Company has been granted exemption under the Income Tax Exempt Bodies Guernsey Ordinance, 1989 from Guernsey Income Tax, and is charged an annual fee of 1,200 2014: 600. d Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses relating to the Company are allocated across the two 2014: three share classes proportionally based on their individual net asset values.
Page 60 v. 2.7 e Interest income Interest income is accounted for on an accruals basis.
f Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as call deposits and short term deposits readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value, together with bank overdrafts.
For the purposes of the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and deposits at bank, together with bank overdrafts.
g Foreign currency translation The Financial Statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Company's functional and presentation currency.
Operating expenses in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date.
Investments in US Dollars and Euro share classes were initially recorded in their respective currencies and translated into the Company's functional currency at the reporting date.
All differences on these foreign currency translations are taken to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
At the reporting date the results of the Share Classes are shown on the Statement of Comprehensive Income in their respective currencies.
These are then converted using the average exchange rate for the year and the Sterling total presented.
Any exchange difference arising on the aggregation of share classes is presented on the Statement of Comprehensive Income as Other Comprehensive Income.
h Segment information For management purposes, the Company is organised into one business unit, and hence no separate segment information has been presented.
i Shares The Shares are initially recognised on the date of issue at the net of issue proceeds and share issue costs.
The carrying value of the shares is subsequently re-measured as equal and opposite to the other net assets of the Company.
Net gain on purchase of own shares is presented on the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The net gain loss of purchased Shares by the Company derives from the difference between the NAV and the purchase cost at purchase date.
During 2015, a continuation vote was triggered and consequently all the shares have been classified as current liabilities.
