Information is for the Company as at 31 December 2015.
Information is for the Highbridge Multi-Strategy Fund as at 31 December 2015.
Performance represents returns for the Highbridge Multi-Strategy Funds non-restricted Class D shares from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015, net of all applicable fees and expenses.
PAST PERFORMANCE IS NOT NECESSARILY INDICATIVE OF FUTURE RESULTS.
Source: FTSE International Limited FTSE FTSE 2015.
FTSE is a trade mark of the London Stock Exchange Group companies and is used by FTSE International Limited under license.
All rights in the FTSE indices vest in FTSE and or its licensors.
Neither FTSE nor its licensors accept any liability for any errors or omissions in the FTSE indices or underlying data.
No further distribution of FTSE data is permitted without FTSEs express written consent.
FTSE 100 Total Return Index USD FTSE 100.
The FTSE 100 Index USD measures the total return of the underlying FTSE 100 index, combining both capital performance and income reinvested on the dividend xd date.
It comprises the 100 most highly capitalised blue chip companies listed on London Stock Exchange.
Ticker: TUKXG Index Currency USD.
Annualised Volatility measures the dispersal or uncertainty in a random variable.
It measures the degree of variation in this case of monthly net returns around the average monthly net return.
For this reason, volatility is often used as a measure of investment risk.
Values are calculated by applying the traditional sample standard deviation formula to monthly return data, and then annualised by multiplying the result by the square root of twelve.
HMSF Beta is calculated as the realised slope of the portfolios return to the indexs return, based on monthly observations.
The Products are not sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted by Barclays Capital, and Barclays Capital makes no warranty, express or implied, as to the results to be obtained by any person or entity from the use of any index, any opening, intra-day or closing value therefor, or any data included therein or relating thereto, in connection with any Fund or for any other purpose.
Barclays Capitals only relationship to the Licensee with respect to the Products is the licensing of certain trademarks and trade names of Barclays Capital and the Barclays Capital indexes that are determined, composed and calculated by Barclays Capital without regard to Licensee or the Products.
"The Barclays Aggregate Bond Index Barclays Agg. """
represents securities that are U. S. domestic, taxable and dollar denominated.
The index covers the U. S. investment grade fixed rate bond market, with index components for government and corporate securities, mortgage pass-through securities, and asset-backed securities.
These major sectors are subdivided into more specific indices that are calculated and reported on a regular basis.
Source: Hedge Fund Research, Inc. HFR.
The HFRI Fund of Funds Diversified Index includes fund of funds classified as 'Diversified' which exhibit one or more of the following characteristics: invests in a variety of strategies among multiple managers: historical annual return and or a standard deviation generally similar to the HFRI Fund of Fund Composite index: demonstrates generally close performance and returns distribution correlation to the HFRI Fund of Fund Composite Index.
A fund in the HFRI FOF Diversified Index tends to show minimal loss in down markets while achieving superior returns in up markets.
Note: All index performance information has been obtained from third parties and should not be relied upon as being complete or accurate.
Indices are shown for comparison purpose only.
While an investor may invest in vehicles designed to track certain indices, an investor cannot invest directly in an index.
Indices are unmanaged, do not charge fees or expenses, and do not employ special investment techniques such as leverage or short selling.
