CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND DISCLOSURES The following Standards or Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any impact on the amounts reported in these Financial Statements.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement - Amendments from Annual improvements cycle effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014.
The following Standards or Interpretations that are expected to be applicable to the Company have been issued but not yet adopted.
Other Standards or Interpretations issued by the IASB or IFRIC are not expected to be applicable to the Company.
The Board have reviewed the impact of the standards below on the Company and they do not expect there to be any changes to the measurement of items in the Financial Statements but recognise additional disclosure may be required.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Deferral of mandatory effective date of IFRS 9 and amendments relating to additional hedge accounting disclosures and consequential amendments.
Applies only when IFRS 9 is adopted, which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Amendments resulting from September 2014 Annual Improvements to IFRSs, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments - Finalised version, incorporating requirements for classification and measurement, impairment, general hedge accounting and derecognition, effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018 EU endorsement is outstanding.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements - Amendments from the disclosure initiative effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE The NAV per share per the Financial Statements is not equal to the published NAV per share.
The published NAV per share for Sterling share class was 2.0067 and US Dollar share class $1.9103 which represents the NAV per share attributable to shareholders in accordance with the Prospectus, amended using a discounted cashflow methodology.
The Financial Statements do not allow for this discount and show a NAV per share for Sterling share class as 2.0099 and US Dollar share class $1.9133.
EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD On 1 December 2015, BlueCrest, the Investment Manager to the BlueCrest suite of funds, and the Board of Directors of each of the relevant BlueCrest funds or General Partner, where appropriate announced that the BlueCrest funds would embark upon a programme to return the capital managed in these funds to investors.
