Counterparty risk: The Company is exposed to counterparty risk directly and indirectly via the Underlying Fund, AllBlue, AllBlue Leveraged and their investments.
The Company seeks to ensure that it does not have undue direct counterparty exposures in line with market practices.
AllBlue Leveraged had counterparty exposure to the leverage provider.
Credit risk: The Company is exposed to credit risk directly through cash and cash equivalents and applies controls accordingly.
The Company is also exposed to credit risk more broadly through the Underlying Fund, AllBlue, AllBlue Leveraged and the underlying investments.
The Board believes that credit risk is well diversified through the exposures taken by Highbridge as investment manager of HCC and given the reduced size of the Companys interest in AllBlue.
The Company is required to comply with the listing rules and the disclosure and transparency rules of the UK Listing Authority and the requirements imposed by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
Any failure to comply could lead to criminal or civil proceedings.
Although responsibility ultimately lies with the Board, the Secretary and Corporate Brokers also monitor compliance with regulatory requirements.
AUDITOR EY have been the Companys auditor since its incorporation and the lead audit partner is currently Chris Matthews.
EY have expressed their willingness to continue in office as Auditor.
A resolution proposing their reappointment will be submitted at the Companys forthcoming General Meeting.
Further to a review conducted by the Board of the continued need for German taxation information, in light of the closure of the Euro class, this information is no longer being provided from 13 March 2015.
This engagement did not require any consultation or advice to be provided by the Auditor.
The Company engaged EY in March 2016 to verify the conversion ratio for the compulsory conversion between US Dollar Shares and Sterling Shares and paid a fee of 7,500 in respect of this.
No other nonaudit services were provided by the Auditor during the year or to the date of this report.
VIABILITY STATEMENT As stated on page 8, the investment objective of the Company is currently to seek to provide consistent returns with low volatility through an investment policy of investing substantially all of its assets in the Underlying Fund or any successor vehicle of the Underlying Fund.
Prior to the Extraordinary General Meeting EGM held on 24 February 2016, it was to seek to provide consistent long-term capital growth through an investment policy of investing substantially all of its assets in AllBlue of any successor vehicle of AllBlue.
However, in considering the Companys viability, the Directors have only given consideration to the current objective.
The Companys investment performance largely depends upon the performance of its underlying investment Page 32 v. 2.7
