Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
"ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union ""IFRS"" and applicable Guernsey law."
The Financial Statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis except for the measurement at fair value of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss.
The Financial Statements are presented in Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
b Going concern As described in Note 9, should the average 12 month discount at which the shares of any class trade to their net asset value exceed 5% of net asset value per share, the Company was obliged to offer a continuation vote to class shareholders.
This requirement to offer a continuation vote was triggered in respect of the Sterling Share Class during November 2015.
However, the announcement from the BlueCrest funds concerning a return of capital to investors further described in Note 16 was received before a continuation vote was held, and so a replacement resolution was put to shareholders of both Classes at the meetings held on 24 February.
As at the statement of financial position date, the Directors had obtained feedback from several shareholders indicating that they wished the Company to continue with a revised investment objective and the Board were well advanced in their selection of a successor Investment Manager.
At that time, the Company had adequate financial resources and as a consequence of the feedback they had received, the Directors believed the Company was well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors had at that time and still have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial information.
c Taxation The Company has been granted exemption under the Income Tax Exempt Bodies Guernsey Ordinance, 1989 from Guernsey Income Tax, and is charged an annual fee of 1,200 2014: 600. d Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses relating to the Company are allocated across the two 2014: three share classes proportionally based on their individual net asset values.
