BLUECREST CAPITAL INTERNATIONAL The year started in a challenging manner for the fund, as the sharp movements in the Swiss franc following the SNBs removal of the peg to the Euro surprised market participants and led to losses in directional positions held by the fund.
As market conditions began to improve, and volatility returned to fixed income markets, the fund was able to capture a range of opportunities which left Q2 as the funds strongest quarter for five years, with the third and fourth quarters also providing positive returns.
Looking at the regional contributions, despite solid performance over 11 months of the year, the losses from January resulted in the European region detracting from performance.
The main source of profits for the year came from cross market trading strategies, which contain positions that spanned more than one region: for example positions relating to relative performance of the Eurozone and the US, or Japan vs. other countries.
The build up to, and eventual start of, the US rate cycle led to increased activity in US interest rate markets and presented opportunities for the North American portfolios, which were the second largest contributors to performance.
The Asian portfolios also contributed positively to performance.
BLUECREST EMERGING MARKETS All regions produced positive contributions for the year, with the most significant contribution coming from the Asian region, where FX trading strategies led performance as they benefitted from the volatility evident in the region.
CEEMEA was the second strongest performer, with Rates and to a lesser extent Credit strategies driving returns.
Both Latin America and Developed Market hedges both posted more modest contributions, in the former gains from Rates, FX and Sovereign Credit were largely offset by losses within Corporate Credit and Equity.
By asset class, Equity trading strategies detracted from performance, Credit trading made a positive contribution with gains from sovereign credit trading being strong enough to offset losses from corporate credit trading.
The strongest asset class was FX trading, with Rates trading strategies also making a significant contribution.
BLUECREST MULTI STRATEGY CREDIT Most strategies were positive contributors over the year, with only two exceptions.
The strongest contribution came from Volatility trading strategies, which saw steady performance throughout most of the year.
Long Short trading strategies were one of the areas that detracted after a volatile year, experiencing a strong start and then facing more challenging conditions as the year progressed.
The other strategy to detract from performance was Macro trading, which experienced muted performance through much of the year, however a challenging August left the strategy in negative territory over all.
Both High Yield and ABS trading strategies made modest positive contributions, whilst the environment was more favourable for Convertible Bond trading strategies which provided the second largest contribution.
BLUECREST MERCANTILE The strongest performance contribution came from the Bank Basel III sub-strategy, which produced strong Page 83 v. 2.7
