General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2021, but this is after the period of this assessment.
The Directors, having duly considered the risks facing the Company, their mitigation and the cash flow modelling, have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of their assessment.
GOING CONCERN The Company now invests the majority of its assets into the Underlying Fund, and, as indicated in the circular to Shareholders dated 8 February 2016, that fund has returned 10.67% annualised since inception.
Whilst this historic performance is no indication for the future, the Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that positive returns will be made in the future.
In addition, at the date of publication of this report, the Company holds a significant amount of cash pending investment into the Underlying fund.
This cash holding considerably exceeds normal operating expenditure anticipated during the next twelve months.
Finally, the Directors have reasonable grounds for believing that the quarterly tender offers, if any, during the next twelve months will be funded by further receipts from its creditor interests or by redemptions from the Underlying Fund.
The Companys financial risk management objectives and policies, details of its financial instruments and its exposures to market price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk are set out at note 13 to the Financial Statements.
After making enquiries, and after updating the financial information set out in the Annual Report to reflect the change of investment objective and the subsequent investment into the Underlying Fund, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the next 12 months.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of this annual financial report.
The Financial Statements are prepared on the going concern basis in light of the Boards assessment of: shareholders appetite to continue their investments in the Company: and the expectation of the Directors that the Company will continue for the 12 months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
