b Shares held in AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged: and c Shares held in ICS.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The main risks in 2015 which arose from the Companys financial instruments concerned its holding of shares in AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged.
The risks attached to those shares were market price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk and also increased volatility due to leverage employed by the funds underlying AllBlue as explained below.
As at the year end the Company was not exposed directly to material foreign exchange risk as each class of shares in the Company was directly invested in shares of AllBlue, AllBlue Leveraged and ICS denominated in the same corresponding currency.
This is still the case as the Sterling share class is now invested into the Sterling share class of Highbridge.
So far as the Company is concerned the only risk over which the Board was and is able to exercise direct control is the liquidity risk attaching to its ability to realise shares in AllBlue, AllBlue Leveraged, ICS and now Highbridge for the purpose of meeting share buy backs and ongoing expenses of the Company.
For this purpose the Board created a Cash Reserve to provide funds to enable the Company to settle share buy backs and meet its expenses in the ordinary course of the business.
Since the change of investment policy and the appointment of Highbridge as Investment Manager, the Company has not held any Cash reserve, relying instead on cash proceeds due on its creditor interests and the possibility of redeeming from HMSF to enable it to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
Thereafter indirectly the Board recognises that the Company had via its holding of shares in AllBlue, AllBlue Leveraged and ICS and has now, via its holding of shares in HMSF, an indirect exposure to the risks summarised below.
For the shares held in ICS the Board notes that such shares may be realised on short notice on any business day.
The proceeds in respect of thereof usually being transmitted by telegraphic transfer on the business day following receipt of the redemption notice by the ICS fund, subject to cut-off times depending on the specific ICS fund in which shares are being redeemed.
It must also be noted that there was little or nothing which the Board could do to manage each of the other risks within AllBlue, AllBlue Leveraged or the funds underlying AllBlue in which AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged invested under the investment objective of the Company prior to 25 February 2016.
The same is now true in respect of the risks within HMSF under the current investment objective of the Company.
Page 71 v. 2.7 a Price Risk The success of the Company's activities will be affected by general economic and market conditions, such as interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws, trade barriers, currency exchange controls and national and international political circumstances.
These factors may affect the level and volatility of securities prices and the liquidity of the underlying funds investments.
Volatility or illiquidity could impair the profitability of, or result in losses in, the underlying funds investments.
Details of the Companys Investment Objective and Policy are given on page 8.
Price sensitivity The Company invested substantially all its assets in AllBlue, AllBlue Leveraged and ICS and now invests in HMSF hereafter referred to collectively as Investees and individually as an Investee of the Company.
It does not undertake any structural borrowing or hedging activity at the Company level.
Its performance was therefore directly linked to the NAV of the Investees of the Company, which themselves are driven by the prices of a large number of positions in listed and unlisted securities.
At 31 December 2015, if the NAV of AllBlue, AllBlue Leveraged and ICS had been 10% higher lower with all the other variables held constant, the net assets attributable to Shareholders for the year would have increased decreased by 76,164,305 2014: 72,653,520 for the Sterling Class and $4,277,663 2014: 7,505,576 for the Dollar Class.
This change arises due to the increase decrease in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
b Credit Risk The nature of commercial arrangements made in the normal course of business between many prime brokers and custodians means that in the case of any one prime broker or custodian defaulting on its obligations to an Investee of the Company, the effects of such a default may have negative effects on other prime brokers with whom other Investees of the Company deal.
The investments underlying the Company may, therefore, be exposed to systemic risk when Investees deal with prime brokers and custodians whose creditworthiness may be interlinked.
The assets underlying Investees may be pledged as margin with prime brokers or other counterparties or held with prime brokers or banks.
In the event of the default of any of these prime brokers, banks or counterparties, Investees, and therefore the Company, may not receive back all or any of the assets pledged or held with the defaulting party.
Therefore the maximum credit risk to which the Company was exposed at the year end was 796,042,391 2014: 819,916,844, that is the total assets.
The main concentration of risk for the Company related to its investments in AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged, although this was mitigated by the diversification offered by their investments into the funds underlying Page 72 v. 2.7 AllBlue.
The main concentration risk now arises form the Companys investment into HMSF which is itself also diversified through its holdings of many underlying investments.
c Liquidity Risk In some circumstances, investments held by the Investees may be relatively illiquid making it difficult to acquire or dispose of them at the prices quoted for them on the various exchanges.
Accordingly, an Investees ability to respond to market movements may be impaired and, consequently, the Investee may experience adverse price movements upon liquidation of its investments which may in turn affect the value of the Companys investment.
Settlement of transactions may be subject to delay and administrative formalities.
There can be no assurance that the liquidity of the Companys investments will always be sufficient to meet redemption requests as, and when, made.
Any such lack of liquidity may affect the ability of the Company to realise its shares in its investments and the value of Shares in the Company.
For such reasons the treatment by the managers of the Companys investments of redemption requests may be deferred in exceptional circumstances including if a lack of liquidity may result in difficulties in determining their NAV and their NAV per share.
This in turn would limit the ability of the Directors to realise the Companys investments should they consider it appropriate to do so and may result in difficulties in determining the NAV of a Share in the Company.
The market prices, if any, for such illiquid investments tend to be volatile and may not be readily ascertainable and the relevant underlying fund may not be able to sell them when it desires to do so or to realise what it perceives to be their fair value in the event of a sale.
The size of the positions of the funds underlying AllBlue an Investee may magnify the effect of a decrease in market liquidity for such instruments.
Changes in overall market leverage, deleveraging as a consequence of a decision by the counterparties with which the Investees enter into repurchase reverse repurchase agreements or derivative transactions, to reduce the level of leveraging, or the liquidation by other market participants of the same or similar positions, may also adversely affect the portfolios of the Investees.
The sale of restricted and illiquid securities often requires more time and results in higher brokerage charges or dealer discounts and other selling expenses than does the sale of securities eligible for trading on national securities exchanges or in the over-the-counter markets.
The Investees and the Underlying Fund may not be able readily to dispose of such illiquid investments and, in some cases, may be contractually prohibited from disposing of such investments for a specified period of time.
Restricted securities may sell at a price lower than similar securities that are not subject to restrictions on resale.
Shareholders should note that the Company is currently awaiting redemption proceeds from AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged.
Further information is provided in Note 16 to the Financial Statements.
1-3 Months Total Payable if a shar eholder Page 73 v. 2.7 vote is not passed As at 31 December 2015 Net assets at the end of the period attributable to shareholders - 795,753,528 795,753,528 Accrued expenses 288,863 - 288,863 Total 288,863 795,753,528 796,042,391 Payable if a shareholder vote is not 1-3 Months Total passed As at 31 December 2014 Net assets at the end of the period attributable to shareholders - 819,817,051 819,817,051 Accrued expenses 99,793 - 99,793 Total 99,793 819,817,051 819,916,844 d Interest Rate Risk The prices of securities tend to be sensitive to interest rate fluctuations.
Unexpected fluctuations in interest rates could cause the corresponding prices of long positions and short positions adopted to move in directions which were not originally anticipated.
Generally, an increase in interest rates will increase the carrying costs of investments.
However, the Company's investments designated as at fair value through profit or loss are non interest bearing, and therefore are not directly exposed to interest rate risk.
The Company's own cash balances are not materially exposed to interest rate risk as cash and cash equivalents are held on floating interest rate deposits with banks and the Company does not rely on income from bank interest to meet day to day expenses.
e Leverage by funds underlying AllBlue Certain funds underlying AllBlue in which the Company has an economic interest, operate with a substantial degree of leverage and are not limited in the extent to which they either may borrow or engage in margin transactions.
The positions maintained by such underlying funds may in aggregate value be in excess of the NAV of AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged.
This leverage presents the potential for a higher rate of total return but will also increase the volatility of AllBlue, AllBlue Leveraged and, as a consequence, the Company, including the risk of a total loss of the amount invested.
f Leverage by AllBlue Leveraged AllBlue Leveraged operated with a substantial degree of leverage for the purposes of making investments and was not limited in the extent to which it could either borrow or engage in margin transactions although leverage was expected to be an amount equal to approximately 100 per cent.
This leverage presented the potential for a greater rate of total return but also increased exposure to capital risk and interest costs.
The Directors understand that AllBlue Leveraged has now repaid all of its borrowing.
Page 74 v. 2.7 g Capital Management The investment objective of the Company prior to 25 February 2016 was to provide Shareholders with consistent long-term capital growth through an investment policy of investing substantially all of its assets in AllBlue or any successor vehicle to AllBlue.
Since 25 February it is to seek to provide consistent returns with low volatility through an investment policy of investing substantially all of its assets in Highbridge MultiStrategy fund the Underlying Fund or any successor vehicle of the Underlying Fund.
The Company does not intend to pay any distributions to shareholders.
As the Companys Ordinary Shares are of no par value, distributions are not paid and Guernsey Company law does not require the maintenance of a Share premium account, the Directors regard the otherwise distributable reserves of the Company to be its capital for the purposes of this disclosure.
Capital for the reporting year under review is summarised in Note 866 to these financial statements.
At the last Annual General Meeting held pursuant to section 199 of the 2008 Law, the Directors were granted authority to buy back up to 14.99 per cent.
of the Ordinary Shares in issue.
The Company's authority to make purchases of its own issued Ordinary Shares will expire at the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company to be held pursuant to section 199 of the 2008 Law and renewal of such authority will be sought at the next general meeting.
The timing of any purchases will be decided by the Board.
The Directors intend that purchases will only be made pursuant to this authority through the market, for cash, at prices below the prevailing NAV per Share where the Directors reasonably believe such purchases will be of material benefit to the Company.
The Companys authorised Share capital is such that further issues of new Ordinary Shares could be made, subject to waiver of pre-emption rights.
Subject to prevailing market conditions, the Board may decide to make one or more further such issues or reissues of Ordinary Shares for cash from time to time.
Any further issues of new Ordinary Shares or reissues of Ordinary Shares held in treasury will rank pari passu with Ordinary Shares in issue.
There are no provisions of the Law which confer rights of pre-emption in respect of the allotment of Shares but there are pre-emption rights contained in the Articles.
The Directors have, however, been granted the power to issue 48 million further Shares on a non pre-emptive basis for a period concluding on 31 December 2016, by a special resolution of Shareholders passed on 30 July 2015, unless such power is previously revoked by the Company's Shareholders in a general meeting pursuant to section 199 of the Law.
The Directors intend to request that the authority to allot Shares on a non-pre-emptive basis is renewed at each general meeting of the Company.
Unless authorised by Shareholders, the Company will not issue further Ordinary Shares or reissue Ordinary Shares out of treasury for cash at a price below the prevailing NAV per Share unless they are first offered pro rata to existing shareholders.
