Counterparty risk: The Company is exposed to counterparty risk directly and indirectly via the Underlying Fund, AllBlue, AllBlue Leveraged and their investments.
The Company seeks to ensure that it does not have undue direct counterparty exposures in line with market practices.
AllBlue Leveraged had counterparty exposure to the leverage provider.
Credit risk: The Company is exposed to credit risk directly through cash and cash equivalents and applies controls accordingly.
The Company is also exposed to credit risk more broadly through the Underlying Fund, AllBlue, AllBlue Leveraged and the underlying investments.
The Board believes that credit risk is well diversified through the exposures taken by Highbridge as investment manager of HCC and given the reduced size of the Companys interest in AllBlue.
The Company is required to comply with the listing rules and the disclosure and transparency rules of the UK Listing Authority and the requirements imposed by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
Any failure to comply could lead to criminal or civil proceedings.
Although responsibility ultimately lies with the Board, the Secretary and Corporate Brokers also monitor compliance with regulatory requirements.
AUDITOR EY have been the Companys auditor since its incorporation and the lead audit partner is currently Chris Matthews.
EY have expressed their willingness to continue in office as Auditor.
A resolution proposing their reappointment will be submitted at the Companys forthcoming General Meeting.
Further to a review conducted by the Board of the continued need for German taxation information, in light of the closure of the Euro class, this information is no longer being provided from 13 March 2015.
This engagement did not require any consultation or advice to be provided by the Auditor.
The Company engaged EY in March 2016 to verify the conversion ratio for the compulsory conversion between US Dollar Shares and Sterling Shares and paid a fee of 7,500 in respect of this.
No other nonaudit services were provided by the Auditor during the year or to the date of this report.
VIABILITY STATEMENT As stated on page 8, the investment objective of the Company is currently to seek to provide consistent returns with low volatility through an investment policy of investing substantially all of its assets in the Underlying Fund or any successor vehicle of the Underlying Fund.
Prior to the Extraordinary General Meeting EGM held on 24 February 2016, it was to seek to provide consistent long-term capital growth through an investment policy of investing substantially all of its assets in AllBlue of any successor vehicle of AllBlue.
However, in considering the Companys viability, the Directors have only given consideration to the current objective.
The Companys investment performance largely depends upon the performance of its underlying investment Page 32 v. 2.7 into the Sterling Class of Highbridge Capital Corporation, HCC which is also managed by Highbridge Capital Management, LLC Highbridge, the Companys investment manager since 29 February 2016.
The Directors, in assessing the viability of the Company have paid particular attention to the risks faced by the Company in seeking to achieve its stated objective, which are set out on page 30.
The Board has established a risk management framework which is intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and where appropriate, mitigate the risks to the Companys investment objective.
The Board does not consider any other risks faced by the Company to be principal risks, as defined in the Corporate Governance Code.
The Directors confirm that their assessment of the principal risks facing the Company was robust and in doing so they have considered models projecting future cash flows during the three years to 31 December 2018.
This model assumes that the Company will be able to meet any requirements for cash either from redemption proceeds from its investment into HCC or from further cash receipts from its creditor interests in AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged.
The Board considers these assumptions to be reasonable, having regard to the information received by the Company to date.
The model also assumes that future performance will reflect the actual performance of HCC during the last few years.
These models have then been flexed to reflect the impact of some plausible but severe scenarios similar to those experienced by investment markets in the past.
The viability assessment covers a period of three years because the Directors are of the opinion that given the Companys recent change of investment policy and investment manager it would be imprudent for them to attempt to assess any longer period.
The Directors consider this period to be sufficient given the inherent uncertainty of the investment world.
At the time of writing, the Companys assets exceed its liabilities by a considerable margin, since the resolutions passed at the EGM on 24 February 2016 and the subsequent compulsory conversion of the remaining US Dollar Shares had the effect, inter alia, of causing the Companys issued shares to be treated as equity, not current liabilities under IFRS.
Further, the main requirement for cash is to meet the quarterly tender facility and since this is entirely at the Directors discretion it could therefore be curtailed or discontinued if necessary to manage cash needs.
In making their viability assessment, the Directors have included a quarterly tender of a reasonable level in their cash flow projections, albeit that as noted above any resulting cash outflow is assumed to be matched by an inflow from HCC or the creditor interests.
The actual level of tender how it is to be funded will be determined upon on the basis of the performance of the investment, anticipated investor demand and the level of the discount, if any, of the Companys share price to its Net Asset Value, and therefore cannot be estimated with accuracy in advance.
The continuation of the Company in its present form is dependent on the Investment Management Agreement with Highbridge remaining in place.
The Directors note that the Investment Management Agreement with the Investment Manager is terminable on six months written notice by either party.
The Directors have no current reason to assume that either the Company or the Investment Manager would serve notice of termination of the Investment Management Agreement during the three year period covered by this viability statement.
The Articles require that the Directors put a Continuation Resolution to the Annual Page 33 v. 2.7
