Interest Rates both contributed positively, with most of their return coming in the first half of the year.
BLUECREST QUANTITATIVE EQUITY At the regional level the strongest performance came from the European and North American portfolios, whilst the Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets region detracted.
The contribution across all signal families was similar, with Alternative signals providing slightly stronger contributions and Traditional signals slightly weaker at the global level.
Within the Traditional family, the Value signal was the worst performer with negative contributions in all regions, whilst the Analyst Estimates signal was the best performer in each region.
Within the Alternative family, the Company Linkages signal was the strongest performer in North America but was weaker in Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets: the News and Events signal was strongest in both Europe and Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets.
Alpha Capture was a solid performer within the Proprietary family for all regions, although the Anti Noise Trader signal was strongest in both Europe and Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets.
The portfolio maintained its neutral exposure throughout the year, and gross exposure averaged approx.
THE SEVEN FUNDS UNDERLYING ALLBLUE A global macro strategy, with a strong fixed income focus.
Strategies include directional and curve trading, driven by macro views around central bank activities, BlueCrest their likely actions and market reactions that will impact the level of rates and the Capital shape of the yield curve.
Also relative value which looks to identify anomalies International across the fixed income markets.
A macro strategy that looks to identify opportunities across currency, local interest BlueCrest rates, sovereign and quasi-sovereign credit markets, with a focus on liquidity.
The strategy trades throughout Latin America, the Middle East, Central and Eastern Emerging Markets Europe, Africa and Asia.
BlueCrest Engages in opportunities across the full credit spectrum of corporate and sovereign Multi Strategy debt markets, implementing strategies such as long short credit, credit volatility and capital structure arbitrage.
Credit Invests in bonds and loans associated with the production and trade of commercial goods and commodities and then hedges out the associated risks.
The credits are BlueCrest purchased from commercial banks who are under pressure to remove them from Mercantile their balance sheets in order to manage risk concentration and to adhere to regulatory requirements.
BlueCrest Equity Engages in long short and event driven strategies across global equity markets by Strategies taking a multi-trader, multi strategy approach.
A global systematic trend following strategy that trades in excess of 150 liquid BlueTrend markets covering asset classes including equities, fixed income, foreign exchange, energy, metals and agricultural commodities.
A global systematic equity market neutral strategy that draws upon a wide variety of fundamental and technical inputs, as well as other sources.
The portfolio BlueCrest construction process incorporates a sophisticated in-house risk model which seeks Quantitative Equity to maintain market neutrality at the regional level, as well as limiting exposures to other factors such as size or liquidity.
Page 85 v. 2.7 DISCLAIMER This document is issued: i for all purposes, except for issue into the United States or issue to U. S. persons, by BlueCrest Capital Management UK LLP BCM UK LLP : and ii only for the purposes of issue into the United States or issue to U. S. persons, by BlueCrest Capital Management Limited BCML acting solely in its capacity as general partner of BlueCrest Capital Management LP BCMLP.
BCM UK LLP is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority of the United Kingdom the FCA.
BCML is registered with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC as an investment adviser under the U. S. Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and with the U. S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a commodity trading advisor and a commodity pool operator and is a member of the U. S. National Futures Association in such capacity.
BCML as general partner of BCMLP is licensed and regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission the JFSC under the Financial Services Jersey Law 1998 the FSJL to conduct fund services business in and from within Jersey.
The JFSC does not take any responsibility for the financial soundness of the Funds as defined below or for the correctness of any statements made or expressed herein.
The JFSC is protected by the FSJL against liability arising from the discharge of its functions under that law.
This document is not intended to constitute, and should not be construed as, investment advice, investment recommendations or investment research.
Potential investors in the Funds should seek their own independent financial, tax, legal and other advice.
This document has been provided to you for informational purposes only and may not be relied upon by you in evaluating the merits of investing in any securities or interests referred to herein or for any other purpose.
This document is not intended as and is not to be taken as an offer or solicitation with respect to the purchase or sale of any security or interest, nor does it constitute an offer or solicitation in any jurisdiction, including those in which such an offer or solicitation is not authorised or to any person to whom it is unlawful to make such a solicitation or offer.
Before making any investment decision you should obtain independent legal, tax, accounting or other professional advice, as appropriate, none of which is offered to you by BCML, BCM UK LLP or any of their affiliates.
None of BCML, BCM UK LLP or any of their affiliates accepts any duty of care to you in relation to any investment in the Funds.
The terms of investment in any of the funds described herein or any other fund in respect of which BCML acts as investment manager each, a Fund and together the Funds are solely as set out in the Fund's prospectus or private placement memorandum including any supplements thereto, as the case may be, application forms and or memorandum and articles of association or limited partnership agreement, as the case may be collectively, the Fund Documents.
Before acquiring an interest in any Fund, each prospective investor is required to confirm that it has carefully reviewed the various risks of an investment in the Fund, as set out in the Fund Documents, and is required to acknowledge and agree to the existence of any actual and potential conflicts of interests described in the Fund Documents and waive, to the fullest extent permitted by any applicable law, any claim with respect to the existence of any such conflicts.
To the extent that this document is issued by BCM UK LLP, it is being issued inside and outside the United Kingdom only to and or is directed only at persons who are professional clients or eligible counterparties for the purposes of the FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook.
To the extent that this document is issued by BCML, this document is directed exclusively at persons who are professional clients or eligible counterparties for the purposes of the FSJL and any other legislation, regulations and orders which may be applicable from time to time, together with the requirements of any relevant codes of practice and guidance issued by the JFSC from time to time the JFSC Regulatory Requirements, or, if to U. S. persons as defined under Regulation S promulgated under the U. S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended the Securities Act, to U. S. persons who are both accredited investors as defined under Regulation D promulgated under the Securities Act and qualified purchasers as defined in the U. S. Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
The interests in the Funds have not been filed with or approved or disapproved by any regulatory authority of the United States or any state thereof, nor has any such regulatory authority passed upon or endorsed the merits of an offering of a Fund or the accuracy or adequacy of this document.
Any representation to the contrary is unlawful.
PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM THE COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION IN CONNECTION WITH ACCOUNTS OF QUALIFIED ELIGIBLE PERSONS, THIS BROCHURE OR ACCOUNT DOCUMENT IS NOT REQUIRED TO BE, AND HAS NOT BEEN, FILED WITH THE COMMISSION.
THE COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION DOES NOT PASS UPON THE MERITS OF PARTICIPATING IN A TRADING PROGRAM OR UPON THE ADEQUACY OR ACCURACY OF COMMODITY TRADING ADVISOR DISCLOSURE.
CONSEQUENTLY, THE COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION HAS NOT REVIEWED OR APPROVED THIS TRADING PROGRAM OR THIS BROCHURE OR ACCOUNT DOCUMENT.
RECIPIENTS SHOULD NOTE THAT ANY FUNDS WHICH ARE DELAWARE LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS ARE ONLY AVAILABLE FOR INVESTMENT BY U. S. PERSONS, AS DEFINED UNDER REGULATION S PROMULGATED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT: SUCH FUNDS ARE NOT BEING DISTRIBUTED, PROMOTED OR MARKETED IN ANY JURISDICTION OTHER THAN THE UNITED STATES.
Information for investors in the European Economic Area the EEA : In relation to each member state of the EEA each an EEA Member State which has implemented the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, this document may only be distributed and the interests in the Funds may only be offered or placed in an EEA Member State to the extent that: 1 the Fund is permitted to be marketed to professional investors in the relevant EEA Member State in accordance with AIFMD as implemented into the local law regulation of the relevant EEA Member State : or 2 this document may be otherwise lawfully distributed and the interests in the Funds may lawfully be offered or placed in that EEA Member State including at the initiative of the potential investor.
In relation to each EEA Member State which, at the date of this document, has not implemented AIFMD, this document may only be distributed and the interests in the Funds may only be offered or placed to the extent that this document may be lawfully distributed and the interests in the Funds may lawfully be offered or placed in that EEA Member State including at the initiative of the potential investor.
Information for investors in Switzerland: Any distribution of interests in the Funds in Switzerland is exclusively made to, and directed at, qualified investors Qualified Investors, as defined in the Swiss Collective Investment Schemes Act of 23 June 2006, as amended, and its implementing ordinance.
Any Funds which are Delaware limited partnerships are not being distributed in Switzerland and are not available for subscription by investors in Switzerland.
Accordingly, the Funds have not been and will not be registered with the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority.
If a Swiss representative has been appointed in respect of a Fund, offering materials relating to interests in that Fund may be made available to Qualified Investors in Switzerland solely by the Swiss representative and or authorised distributors.
Swiss representative where appointed : Mont-Fort Funds AG, 63 Chemin Plan-Pra, 1936 Verbier, Switzerland.
Swiss paying agent where appointed : Neue Helvetische Bank AG, Seefeldstrasse 215, CH-8008 Zurich.
In respect of the distribution of interests in the Funds in and from Switzerland, the place of performance and jurisdiction is the registered office of the Swiss representative.
Page 86 v. 2.7 Information for investors in Singapore: This document has not been registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Funds are not authorised or recognised by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Accordingly, this document and any other document or material in connection with the offer, sale, invitation for subscription or purchase of interests in any Fund may not be circulated or distributed, nor may interests in any Fund be offered, sold or be made the subject of an invitation for subscription or purchase, whether directly or indirectly, to the public or any member of the public in Singapore other than a person who is an accredited investor or an institutional investor each as defined under the Securities and Futures Act Chapter 289 of Singapore or unless otherwise permitted under any applicable exemption.
The information contained herein is intended only for the person or entity to which it is addressed and may contain confidential and or privileged material.
Any dissemination or other unauthorised use of this information by any person or entity is strictly prohibited.
The distribution of this document may be further restricted by law.
No action has been or will be taken by any of BCM UK LLP, BCML, or any Fund to permit the possession or distribution of this document in any jurisdiction other than as expressly described herein where action for that purpose may be required.
Accordingly, this document may not be used in any jurisdiction except under circumstances that will result in compliance with any applicable laws and regulations.
Persons to whom this document is communicated should inform themselves about and observe any such restrictions.
This document may contain simulated performance results achieved by means of the retroactive application of the advisers investment methodology, or the real-time application of a hypothetical capital allocation to such strategy.
Hypothetical performance results have many inherent limitations, some of which are described below.
No representation is being made that any particular trading program will or is likely to achieve profits or losses similar to those shown.
In fact, there are frequently sharp differences between hypothetical performance results and the actual results subsequently achieved by any particular trading program.
One of the limitations of hypothetical performance results is that they are generally prepared with the benefit of hindsight.
In addition, hypothetical trading does not involve financial risk, and no hypothetical trading record can completely account for the impact of financial risk in actual trading.
For example, the ability to withstand losses or to adhere to a particular trading program in spite of trading losses are material points which can also adversely affect actual trading results.
There are numerous other factors related to the markets in general or to the implementation of any specific trading program which cannot be fully accounted for in the preparation of hypothetical performance results and all of which can adversely affect actual trading results.
Although the information in this document is believed to be materially correct as at the date of issue, no representation or warranty is given as to the accuracy of any of the information provided.
Furthermore no representation or warranty is given in respect of the correctness of the information contained herein as at any future date.
Certain information included in this document is based on information obtained from third-party sources considered to be reliable.
Any projections or analysis provided to assist the recipient of this document in evaluating the matters described herein may be based on subjective assessments and assumptions and may use one among alternative methodologies that produce different results.
Accordingly, any projections or analysis should not be viewed as factual and should not be relied upon as an accurate prediction of future results.
Furthermore, to the extent permitted by law, BCM UK LLP, BCML, BCMLP, the Funds, and their affiliates, agents, service providers and professional advisers assume no liability or responsibility and owe no duty of care for any consequences of any person acting or refraining to act in reliance on the information contained in this document or for any decision based on it.
PAST PERFORMANCE IS NOT NECESSARILY INDICATIVE OF FUTURE RESULTS.
The actual performance realised by any given investor will depend on numerous factors and circumstances.
This document may include returns for various indices.
These indices are not intended to be direct benchmarks for a particular Fund, nor are they intended to be indicative of the type of assets in which a particular Fund may invest.
The assets invested in by any of the Funds will likely be materially different from the assets underlying these indices, and will likely have a significantly different risk profile.
Target returns, volatility and Sharpe ratio figures quoted are targets only and are based over the long term on the performance projections of the investment strategy and market interest rates at time of modelling and therefore may change.
