Footnotes to Capital 1 From 1 January 2015 the CRD IV transitional CET1 and end point CET1 capital ratios became aligned for HSBC Holdings plc due to the recognition of unrealised gains on investment property and available-for-sale securities.
2 This includes dividends on ordinary shares, quarterly dividends on preference shares and coupons on capital securities, classified as equity.
3 The basis of presentation for foreign currency translation differences has changed to reflect the total amount in CET1 capital.
Previously this only included foreign currency translation differences recognised in other comprehensive income.
The comparative period, where applicable, has not been updated to reflect the change.
4 In the first half of 2015, a portfolio of customers was transferred from CMB to RBWM in Latin America in order to better align the combined banking needs of the customers with our established global businesses.
Comparative data have been re-presented accordingly.
5 RWAs are non-additive across geographical regions due to market risk diversification effects within the Group.
6 For the basis of preparation, see page 247.
7 CRD IV balances as at 31 December 2013 were estimated based on the Groups interpretation of final CRD IV legislation and final rules issued by the PRA, details of which can be found in the basis of preparation on page 324 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2013.
8 Includes externally verified profits for the year to 31 December 2015.
9 Mainly comprises unrealised gains losses in available-for-sale debt securities related to SPEs.
10 Includes own credit spread on trading liabilities.
11 Mainly comprise investments in insurance entities.
Appendix to Capital Capital management Audited Approach and policy Our approach to capital management is driven by our strategic and organisational requirements, taking into account the regulatory, economic and commercial environment in which we operate.
Pre-tax return on risk-weighted assets RoRWA is an operational metric by which the global businesses are managed on a day-to-day basis.
The metric is calibrated against return on equity and our capital requirements to ensure we are best placed to achieve capital strength and business profitability, combined with regulatory capital efficiency objectives.
It is our objective to maintain a strong capital base to support the risks inherent in our business and invest in accordance with our strategy, exceeding both consolidated and local regulatory capital requirements at all times.
Our policy on capital management is underpinned by a capital management framework and our internal capital adequacy assessment process, which enables us to manage our capital in a consistent manner.
The framework, which is approved by the Group Management Board GMB annually, incorporates a number of different capital measures including market capitalisation, shareholders equity, economic capital and regulatory capital.
During 2015, we continued to manage Group capital to meet a medium-term target for return on equity of more than 10%.
This is modelled on a CET1 ratio on an end point basis in the range of 12% to 13%.
Capital measures shareholders equity is the equity capital invested in HSBC by our shareholders, adjusted for certain reserves and goodwill previously amortised or written-off: economic capital is the internally calculated capital requirement which we deem necessary to support the risks to which we are exposed: and regulatory capital is the capital which we are required to hold in accordance with the rules established by the PRA for the consolidated Group and by our local regulators for individual Group companies.
This comprises common equity tier 1, additional tier 1 and tier 2 capital.
Our assessment of capital adequacy is aligned to our assessment of risks, including: credit, market, operational, interest rate risk in the banking book, pensions, insurance, structural foreign exchange risk and residual risks.
Stress testing In addition to our annual group internal stress test, the Group is subject to supervisory stress testing in many jurisdictions.
Supervisory requirements are increasing in frequency and in the granularity with which the results are required.
These exercises include the programmes of the PRA, the FRB, the EBA, the ECB and the HKMA, as well as stress tests undertaken in other jurisdictions.
We take into account the results of all such regulatory stress testing and our internal stress test when assessing our internal capital requirements.
The outcome of stress testing exercises carried out by the PRA, will also feed into a PRA buffer under the Pillar 2 requirements, where required.
Risks to capital Outside of the stress-testing framework, a list of top and emerging risks is regularly evaluated for their effect on our CET1 capital ratio.
As a result, other risks may be identified which have the potential to affect our RWAs and or capital position.
These risks are also included in the evaluation of risks to capital.
The downside or upside scenarios are assessed against our capital management objectives and mitigating actions are assigned as necessary.
The responsibility for global capital allocation principles and decisions rests with the GMB.
Through our internal governance processes, we seek to maintain discipline over HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 243 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Capital continued Appendix to Capital our investment and capital allocation decisions and seek to ensure that returns on investment meet the Groups management objectives.
Our strategy is to allocate capital to businesses and entities on the basis of their ability to achieve established RoRWA objectives and their regulatory and economic capital requirements.
Risk-weighted asset plans RWA plans form part of the Annual Operating Plan that is approved by the Board.
Revised forecasts are submitted to the GMB on a monthly basis and reported RWAs are monitored against plan.
Our global businesses are set targets in line with the priorities outlined in last Junes strategy update including RWA efficiency and return on RWAs.
Business performance against RWA targets is monitored through regular reporting to the Holding Company ALCO as well as the GMB.
Performance measures are aligned to the Groups strategic actions.
The management of regulatory capital deductions is also addressed in the RWA monitoring framework through additional notional charges for these items.
Analysis is undertaken within the RWA monitoring framework to identify the key drivers of movements.
Particular attention is paid to identifying and segmenting items within the day-to-day control of the business and those items that are driven by changes in risk models or regulatory methodology.
Analysis is also undertaken to recognise and report specific actions that are targeted RWA reduction initiatives.
Capital generation HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and also provides them with non-equity capital where necessary.
These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings own capital issuance and profit retention.
As part of its capital management process, HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance between the composition of its capital and its investment in subsidiaries.
Capital measurement and allocation The PRA supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis and therefore receives information on the capital adequacy of, and sets capital requirements for, the Group as a whole.
Individual banking subsidiaries are directly regulated by their local banking supervisors, who set and monitor their capital adequacy requirements.
Our capital at Group level is calculated under CRD IV and supplemented by the PRAs rules to effect the transposition of directive requirements.
Our policy and practice in capital measurement and allocation at Group level is underpinned by the CRD IV rules.
In most jurisdictions, non-banking financial subsidiaries are also subject to the supervision and capital requirements of local regulatory authorities.
The Basel III framework, similarly to Basel II, is structured around three pillars: minimum capital requirements, supervisory review process and market discipline.
The CRD IV legislation implemented Basel III in the EU and, in the UK, the PRA Rulebook for CRR Firms transposed the various national discretions under the CRD IV legislation into UK requirements.
CRDIV also introduces a number of capital buffers, including the CCB, CCyB, and other systemic buffers such as the G-SII buffer.
Regulatory capital For regulatory purposes, our capital base is divided into three main categories, namely CET1, additional tier 1 and tier 2, depending on their characteristics.
CET1 capital is the highest quality form of capital, comprising shareholders equity and related non-controlling interests subject to limits.
Under CRD IV various capital deductions and regulatory adjustments are made to these items which are treated differently for the purposes of capital adequacy these include deductions for goodwill and intangible assets, deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability, negative amounts resulting from the calculation of expected loss amounts under IRB, holdings of capital securities of financial sector entities and surplus defined benefit pension fund assets.
Additional tier 1 capital comprises eligible non-common equity capital securities and any related share premium: it also includes qualifying securities issued by subsidiaries subject to certain limits.
Holdings of additional tier 1 securities of financial sector entities are deducted.
Tier 2 capital comprises eligible capital securities and any related share premium and qualifying tier 2 capital securities issued by subsidiaries subject to limits.
Holdings of tier 2 capital securities of financial sector entities are deducted.
Pillar 1 capital requirements Pillar 1 is comprised of the capital resources requirements for credit risk, market risk and operational risk.
Credit risk includes counterparty credit risk and securitisation requirements.
These requirements are expressed in terms of RWAs.
Credit risk capital requirements CRD IV applies three approaches of increasing sophistication to the calculation of Pillar 1 credit risk capital requirements.
The most basic, the standardised approach, requires banks to use external credit ratings to determine the risk weightings applied HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 244 to rated counterparties.
Other counterparties are grouped into broad categories and standardised risk weightings are applied to these categories.
The next level, the internal ratings-based IRB foundation approach, allows banks to calculate their credit risk capital requirements on the basis of their internal assessment of a counterpartys probability of default PD, but the estimates of exposure at default EAD and loss given default LGD are subject to standard supervisory parameters.
Finally, the IRB advanced approach allows banks to use their own internal assessment in both determining PD and quantifying EAD and LGD.
The capital resources requirement, which is intended to cover unexpected losses, is derived from a formula specified in the regulatory rules which incorporates PD, LGD, EAD and other variables such as maturity and correlation.
Expected losses are calculated by multiplying PD by EAD and LGD.
Expected losses are deducted from capital to the extent that they exceed total accounting impairment allowances.
For credit risk we have adopted the IRB advanced approach for the majority of our portfolios, with the remainder on either IRB foundation or standardised approaches.
At the end of 2015, a number of portfolios in Europe, Asia and North America were on the advanced IRB approach as well as our sovereigns, banks and large corporate exposures globally.
Others remain on the standardised or foundation approach pending definition of local regulations or model approval, or under exemptions from IRB treatment.
In some instances, regulators have allowed us to transition from advanced to standardised approaches for a limited number of portfolios.
Counterparty credit risk Counterparty credit risk CCR arises for derivatives and securities financing transactions.
It is calculated for both the trading and non-trading books and is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction may default before completing the satisfactory settlement of the transaction.
Three approaches to calculating CCR and determining exposure values are defined by CRD IV: mark-to-market, standardised and internal model method.
These exposure values are used to determine capital requirements under one of the credit risk approaches: standardised, IRB foundation and IRB advanced.
We use the mark-to-market and internal model method approaches for CCR.
In addition, CRD IV introduced a regulatory capital charge to cover CVA risk, the risk of adverse movements in the credit valuation adjustments taken for expected credit losses on derivative transactions.
Where we have both specific risk VaR approval and internal model method approval for a product, the CVA VaR approach has been used to calculate the CVA capital charge.
Where we do not hold both approvals, the standardised approach has been applied.
Certain counterparty exposures are exempt from CVA, such as non-financial counterparties and sovereigns.
Securitisation Securitisation positions are held in both the trading and non-trading books.
For non-trading book securitisation positions, CRD IV specifies two methods for calculating credit risk requirements, the standardised and the IRB approaches.
Both rely on the mapping of rating agency credit ratings to risk weights, which range from 7% to 1,250%.
Within the IRB approach, we use the ratings-based method for the majority of our non-trading book securitisation positions, and the internal assessment approach for exposures arising from asset-backed commercial paper programmes, mainly related to liquidity facilities and programme wide credit enhancement.
The majority of securitisation positions in the trading book are risk weighted for capital purposes as though they are held in the non-trading book under the standardised or IRB approaches.
Market risk capital requirement The market risk capital requirement is measured using internal market risk models where approved by the PRA, or the standard rules of CRD IV.
Our internal market risk models are VaR, stressed VaR and Incremental Risk.
Since the sale of our correlation portfolio in September 2014, there has been no market risk capital requirement associated with the comprehensive risk measure.
Operational risk capital requirement CRD IV includes a capital requirement for operational risk, again utilising three levels of sophistication.
The capital required under the basic indicator approach is a simple percentage of gross revenues, whereas under the standardised approach the calculation is applied to the same measure with varying percentages by business line.
Both these approaches use an average of the last three financial years revenues.
Finally, the advanced measurement approach uses banks own statistical analysis and modelling of operational risk data to determine capital requirements.
We have adopted the standardised approach in determining our operational risk capital requirements.
Pillar 2 capital requirements We conduct an annual internal capital adequacy assessment process ICAAP to determine a forward looking assessment of our capital requirements given our business strategy, risk profile, risk appetite and capital plan.
This process incorporates the Groups risk management processes and governance framework.
As a part of our ICAAP, we carry out internal stress testing of our base capital plan where both the PRA released stress scenario and concurrent scenario in the context of our business and HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 245 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Capital continued Appendix to Capital specific risk drivers are taken into account.
These, coupled with our economic capital framework and other risk management practices, are used to assess our internal capital adequacy requirements.
The ICAAP is examined by the PRA as part of its supervisory review and evaluation process SREP, which occurs periodically to enable the regulator to define the individual capital guidance or minimum capital requirements for HSBC and our capital planning buffer where required.
Under the revised Pillar 2 PRA regime, which came into effect from 1 January 2016, the capital planning buffer was replaced with a PRA buffer.
The PRA states this is not intended to duplicate the CRD IV buffers, and will be set according to vulnerability in a stress scenario, as assessed through the annual PRA stress testing exercise.
CRD IV capital buffers CRD IV introduced a number of capital buffers which apply in addition to Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 requirements and are broadly aligned with the Basel III framework.
This includes the CCB, CCyB, and G-SII which are all currently applicable to the Group.
These are to be met with CET1 and, with the exception of the CCyB which applies with immediate effect, are being phased in from 1 January 2016.
The CRD IV includes other capital buffers such as the systemic risk buffer which has not yet been fully implemented by the PRA.
CCB The CCB is designed to ensure banks build up capital outside periods of stress that can be drawn down when losses are incurred.
It is set at 2.5% of RWAs across all banks, and is being phased in from 1 January 2016.
G-SII The Group is designated as a G-SII by the PRA, and is currently subject to a G-SII buffer of 2.5% of RWAs.
This is being phased in from 1 January 2016.
The G-SII buffer is intended to address systemic risk, which is assessed on an annual basis according to a number of indicators such as: the size of a bank, its interconnectedness, the lack of readily available substitutes or financial institution infrastructure for the services it provides, its global cross-jurisdictional activity, and the complexity of its business model.
At 1 January 2016, our G-SII buffer was 0.625%.
CCyB The CCyB is a countercyclical buffer which is set on an institution specific basis and calculated according to the geographic location of relevant exposures.
It is designed to protect against future losses where unsustainable levels of leverage, debt or credit growth pose a systemic threat.
Our institution-specific CCyB for the Group is calculated as the weighted average of the CCyB rates that apply in the jurisdictions where our relevant credit exposures are located.
At 31 December 2015 our institution specific CCyB applicable on a group basis, was close to 0%.
Combined buffer As a result of the above requirements, at 1 January 2016, the combined buffer applicable to HSBC Group was estimated as 1.25%.
Leverage ratio requirements In addition to risk-based capital requirements, the Group is subject to a non-risk sensitive, minimum leverage ratio requirement of 3%, as set by the PRA.
This is calculated in accordance with the Commission Delegated Regulation EU 2015 62, published in January 2015, which implemented the revised Basel III 2014 exposure measure.
Since 1 January 2016, the minimum leverage ratio of 3% has been supplemented with an ALRB for G-SIIs and a CCLB, both of which are set at 35% of the relevant buffers in the risk-weighted capital framework.
As a result, at 1 January 2016, our minimum leverage ratio requirement of 3% was supplemented with an ALRB of 0.2% and a CCLB which rounds to 0%.
Pillar 3 disclosure requirements Pillar 3 of the Basel regulatory framework is related to market discipline and aims to make firms more transparent by requiring publication, at least annually, of wide-ranging information on their risks, capital and management.
Our Pillar 3 Disclosures 2015 are published on our website, www.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 246 RWA movement by key driver basis of preparation and supporting notes Credit risk drivers definitions and quantification The causal analysis of RWA movements splits the total movement in IRB RWAs into six drivers, described below.
The first four relate to specific, identifiable and measurable changes.
The remaining two, book size and book quality, are derived after accounting for movements in the first four specific drivers.
Foreign exchange movements This is the movement in RWAs as a result of changes in the exchange rate between the functional currency of the HSBC company owning each portfolio and US dollars, being our presentation currency for consolidated reporting.
Our structural foreign exchange exposures are managed with the primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that our consolidated capital ratios and the capital ratios of individual banking subsidiaries are largely protected from the effect of changes in exchange rates.
This is usually achieved by ensuring that, for each subsidiary bank, the ratio of structural exposures in a given currency to risk-weighted assets denominated in that currency is broadly equal to the capital ratio of the subsidiary in question.
We hedge structural foreign exchange exposures only in limited circumstances.
Acquisitions and disposals This is the movement in RWAs as a result of the disposal or acquisition of business operations.
This can be whole businesses or parts of a business.
The movement in RWAs is quantified based on the credit risk exposures as at the end of the month preceding a disposal or following an acquisition.
Model updates RWA movements arising from the implementation of new models and from changes to existing parameter models are allocated to this driver.
This figure will also include changes which arise following review of modelling assumptions.
Where a model recalibration reflects an update to more recent performance data, the resulting RWA changes are not assigned here, but instead reported under book quality.
RWA changes are estimated based on the impact assessments made in the testing phase prior to implementation.
These values are used to simulate the effect of new or updated models on the portfolio at the point of implementation, assuming there were no major changes in the portfolio from the testing phase to implementation phase.
RWA movement arising from portfolios moving from the standardised approach to the IRB approach are also allocated to this driver.
The RWA movement by key driver statement shows the increase in IRB RWAs, but does not show the corresponding reduction in standardised approach RWAs as its scope is limited to IRB only.
The movement in RWAs is quantified at the date at which the IRB approach is applied, and not during the testing phase as with a new updated model.
Methodology and policy Internal updates This captures the effect on RWAs of changing the internal treatment of exposures.
This may include, but is not limited to, a portfolio or a part of one moving from an existing IRB model onto a standardised model, identification of netting and credit risk mitigation.
External updates regulatory This specifies the effect of additional or changing regulatory requirements.
This includes, but is not limited to, regulatoryprescribed changes to the RWA calculation.
The movement in RWAs is quantified by comparing the RWAs calculated for that portfolio under the old and the new requirements.
Book size RWA movements attributed to this driver are those we would expect to experience for the given movement in exposure, as measured by EAD, assuming a stable risk profile.
These RWA movements arise in the normal course of business, such as growth in credit exposures or reduction in book size from run-offs and write-offs.
The RWA movement is quantified as follows: RWA and EAD changes captured in the four drivers above are excluded from the total movements to create an adjusted movement in EAD and RWA for the period.
The average RWA to EAD percentage is calculated for the opening position and is applied to the adjusted movement in EAD.
This results in an estimated book size RWA movement based on the assumption that the EAD to RWA percentage is constant throughout the period.
As the calculation relies on averaging, the output is dependent upon the degree of portfolio aggregation and the number of discrete time periods for which the calculation is undertaken.
For each quarter of 2015 this calculation was performed for each HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 247 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Capital Corporate Governance Appendix to Capital Corporate Governance Report Biographies HSBC company with an IRB portfolio by global businesses, split by the main Basel categories of credit exposures, as described in the table below: CRD IV categories of IRB credit exposures within HSBC Central governments and central banks Corporates Other Retail Qualifying revolving Institutions Retail Secured by real estate SME Retail Other SME Corporates SME Retail Secured by retail estate non-SME Retail Other non-SME Corporates Specialised Lending The total of the results is shown in book size within the RWA movement by key driver table.
Book quality This represents RWA movements resulting from changes in the underlying credit quality of customers.
These are caused by changes to IRB risk parameters which arise from actions such as, but not limited to, model recalibration, change in counterparty external rating, or the influence of new lending on the average quality of the book.
The change in RWAs attributable to book quality is calculated as the balance of RWA movements after taking account of all drivers described above.
The RWA movement by key driver statement includes only movements which are calculated under the IRB approach.
Certain classes of credit risk exposure are treated as capital deductions and therefore reductions are not shown in this statement.
If the treatment of a credit risk exposure changes from RWA to capital deduction in the period, then only the reduction in RWAs would appear in the RWA movement by key driver tables.
In this instance, a reduction in RWAs does not necessarily indicate an improvement in the capital position.
Counterparty risk drivers definitions and quantification The RWA movement by key driver for counterparty credit risk calculates the credit risk drivers 5 and 6 at a more granular level, by using transaction level details provided by regional sites.
Foreign exchange movement is not a reported layer for counterparty risk drivers, as there is cross currency netting across the portfolio.
Market risk drivers definitions and quantification The RWA movement by key driver for market risk combines the credit risk drivers 5 and 6 into a single driver called Movements in risk levels.
