Directors Responsibility Statement Statement Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the parent company Company and Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2015, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
1 Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance section 1 on pages 249 to 255 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and the management report represented by the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors report includes a statement, in the case of each Director in office as at the date the Report of the Directors is approved, that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and they have taken all the steps they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
On behalf of the Board Douglas Flint, Group Chairman 22 February 2016 1 Other than Henri fide Castries who was not a Director at the time of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015.
