A more detailed consolidated balance sheet is contained in the Financial Statements on page 339.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 61 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Financial summary continued Consolidated balance sheet Combined view of customer lending and customer deposits Derivative assets decreased by $57bn or 16%, driven by valuation movements in interest rate contracts, reflecting 2015 2014 shifts in major yield curves, notably in France and the UK.
$m $m Combined customer lending Loans and advances to customers decreased by $50bn on a Loans and advances to customers 924,454 974,660 reported basis, driven by Latin America and Europe.
This Loans and advances to customers included the following items: reported in Assets held for sale 19,021 577 22 Brazil 17,001 adverse currency translation movements of $52bn: other 2,020 577 reclassification of $17bn to Assets held for sale relating At 31 December 943,475 975,237 to our operations in Brazil: and Combined customer deposits a $13bn reduction in corporate overdraft balances in Customer accounts 1,289,586 1,350,642 Europe, with a corresponding fall in corporate customer Customer accounts reported accounts.
in Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 16,682 145 Excluding these factors, customer lending balances grew 22 Brazil 15,094 by $32bn, largely from growth in Europe of $20bn, North other 1,588 145 America of $5bn and Asia of $4bn.
At 31 December 1,306,268 1,350,787 In Europe, the growth was from increased term lending to For footnote, see page 99.
CMB customers, notably in the UK and Germany and higher balances in GB&M.
In North America, the growth in Movement in 2015 balances was driven by increased term lending to Total reported assets of $2.4 trillion were 9% lower than at corporate and commercial customers in CMB and GB&M, 31 December 2014 on a reported basis and 4% lower on a partly offset by a decline in RBWM from the continued constant currency basis.
One of the main drivers for this reduction in the US run-off portfolio and the transfer to reduction was a fall in trading assets which reflects our Assets held for sale of US first lien mortgage balances.
In ongoing focus on the efficient use of the balance sheet Asia, balances rose largely from residential mortgage in the context of new prudential regulations.
lending in Hong Kong and mainland China.
CMB lending balances also rose, although GB&M lending fell.
Both of Our ratio of customer advances to customer accounts was these businesses were affected by weakening demand for 71.7%.
Both customer loans and customer accounts fell trade lending, while GB&Ms reduction also reflected our on a reported basis with these movements including: active management of overall client returns.
adverse currency translation movements of $52bn and $65bn, respectively: Liabilities Repurchase agreements decreased by $27bn or 25%, the transfer to Assets held for sale and Liabilities of driven by falls in Europe, notably in the UK, and in North disposal groups held for sale of balances relating to the America.
We continued to closely manage these balances, planned disposal of our operations in Brazil of $17bn as we reassessed the overall returns on these activities in and $15bn, respectively: and light of the evolving regulatory landscape and overall client a $13bn reduction in corporate overdraft and current returns.
account balances relating to a small number of clients in Customer accounts decreased by $61bn and included the our PCM business in the UK who settled their overdraft following items: and deposit balances on a net basis, with customers increasing the frequency with which they settled their adverse currency translation movements of $65bn: positions.
reclassification of over $15bn to Liabilities of disposal Excluding these movements, customer lending grew by groups held for sale relating to our operations in Brazil: $32bn or 4% driven by Europe, and customer accounts and grew by $32bn or 3%, notably in Asia.
a $13bn reduction in corporate current account Assets balances, in line with the fall in corporate overdraft positions.
Cash and balances at central banks fell by $31bn, primarily in North America as we managed the balance of our liquid Excluding these factors, customer accounts grew by $32bn, asset portfolio to maximise investment returns.
notably in Asia in the first half of the year, reflecting growth in RBWM from increased savings balances by new Trading assets decreased by $79bn, of which $16bn was and existing Premier customers, together with a rise in our driven by adverse currency translation, as we continued PCM business in CMB.
our reduction in trading inventory in the context of the prudential regulation.
This resulted in reductions in Balances in Europe were broadly unchanged.
Growth in holdings of debt securities by the Rates business, notably in our PCM business in CMB and a rise in RBWM balances Europe and North America.
In addition, lower settlement reflecting customers continued preference for holding balances also reflected our actions to improve efficiency of balances in current and savings accounts were broadly balance sheet usage.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 62 Trading liabilities fell by $49bn, mainly in North America Risk-weighted assets and Europe reflecting the reduction in trading assets and Risk-weighted assets RWAs totalled $1,103bn at our focus on optimising the funding of trading assets.
After foreign currency translation differences, RWAs The decrease in derivative liabilities was in line with that of reduced by $65bn in 2015, driven by targeted RWA derivative assets as the underlying risk was broadly initiatives of $124bn, partly offset by business growth of matched.
$35bn, and from growth in our associates of $14bn.
The Equity RWA initiatives included: Total shareholders equity fell by $2.0bn or 1%.
The effects the accelerated sell-down of our consumer mortgage of profits generated in the year and the issue of new portfolio in the US and the GB&M legacy book, together contingent convertible securities were more than offset by contributing $30bn to the reduction: and the combined effect of dividends paid and an increase in exposure reductions, process improvements and refined accumulated foreign exchange losses, which reflected the calculations, which reduced RWAs by $93bn, 61% of marked appreciation in the US dollar against a number of which were in GB&M.
currencies, notably sterling and the euro.
We recorded fair value gains in our available-for-sale reserve relating to our The business growth of $35bn was from higher term equity interest in Visa Europe of $432m.
These were more lending to corporate customers in CMB and from higher than offset by fair value gains transferred to the income general lending to corporates in GB&M.
There was an statement and fair value losses on debt securities during increase of $14bn in our associates, BoCom and The Saudi the year.
The gains on Visa Europe were assessed against British Bank.
the expected consideration to be received from the proposed sale to Visa Inc.
This transaction is expected to complete in 2016, at which point we will transfer the fair value gains to the income statement.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 63 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
