Report of the Directors: Risk continued Operational risk Operational risk 1 Page App Tables Page Operational risk 176 217 Operational risk management framework 177 Key components of HSBCs ORMF 176 Three lines of defence 177 Operational risk in 2015 177 Frequency and amount of operational risk losses 177 Frequency of operational risk incidents by risk category 178 Distribution of operational risk losses in US dollars by risk category 178 Compliance risk 178 217 Legal risk 218 Global security and fraud risk 218 Systems risk 219 Vendor risk management 219 1 Appendix to Risk risk policies and practices.
Operational risk is the risk to achieving our strategy or and remain within our targeted levels of operational risk objectives as a result of inadequate or failed internal within the Groups risk appetite, as defined by the Board.
processes, people and systems or from external Articulating our risk appetite for material operational risks events.
helps the organisation understand the level of risk HSBC is willing to accept.
Monitoring operational risk exposure Responsibility for minimising operational risk lies with against risk appetite on a regular basis and implementing HSBCs management and staff.
All regional, global business, our risk acceptance process drives risk awareness in a country, and functional staff are required to manage the forward-looking manner and assists management in operational risks of the business and operational activities determining whether further action is required.
for which they are responsible.
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding Activities to strengthen our risk culture and better embed operational risk is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 217. the use of the ORMF continued in 2015.
In particular, we continued to streamline our operational risk management Operational risk management framework processes, procedures and tool sets to provide more HSBCs Operational Risk Management Framework ORMF forward-looking risk insights and more effective operation is our overarching approach for managing operational risk.
The ORMF comprises the 14 key components The purpose of the ORMF is to make sure we fully identify set below.
and manage our operational risks in an effective manner Key components of HSBCs ORMF 1 Culture, Values and Operational Risk Strategy 2 6 Risk appetite 7 Reporting 2.1 Risk Committee Structure and Terms of Reference 8 2.2 Global Operational Risk Committee 8.1 Operational risk capital calculation economic and ICAAP capital 8.2 Stress testing for operational risk 3 3.1 Operational Risk roles and responsibilities Core Operational Risk Management 3.2 Second line of defence skills and resources 9 12 Identification and assessment Management actions 9.1 Risk and control assessments 4 9.2 Scenario analysis Operational 9.3 Top and emerging operational risks Risk 4.1 Operational Risk policy framework Management 11 Cycle Internal and external event 10 management and escalation Internal control monitoring and key indicator management 5 13 Use, embedding and oversight 5.1 Operational Risk taxonomy 14 Systems and tools HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 176 Taxonomy FIM 3LOD Governance Capital Calculation Three lines of defence information security: the security of our information and technology infrastructure is crucial for maintaining our HSBC has implemented an activity-based three lines of banking services and protecting our customers and the defence model an industry best practice approach to HSBC brand.
As with other financial institutions and underpin our approach to managing operational risk using multinational organisations, we continue to be exposed the ORMF.
It makes clear who does what within HSBC to to cyber threats, and the focus of attacks such as manage operational risks on a daily basis.
distribution of denial of service which can affect the The first line of defence owns the risks and is responsible availability of customer-facing websites.
Programmes for identifying, recording, reporting and managing them of work are ongoing to strengthen internal security and ensuring that the right controls and assessments controls to prevent unauthorised access to our systems are in pace to mitigate these risks.
and network, as well as improvements to the controls and security applied to protect our customers utilising The second line of defence sets the policy and guidelines digital channels.
Strong engagement and support within for managing the risks and provides advice, guidance the industry, government agencies and intelligence and challenge to the first line of defence on effective providers helps to ensure we keep abreast of the risk management.
current developments: and The third line of defence is Internal Audit which helps third-party risk management: we are strengthening our the Board and Executive Management to protect the core third-party risk management capability particularly assets, reputation and sustainability of the Group.
related to the management of vendor risks.
A supplier Operational risk in 2015 performance management programme has been implemented with our most material suppliers and During 2015, our operational risk profile continued to be screening of suppliers is in place to help enable us to dominated by compliance risk mainly conduct-related identify if any are on a sanctions list and if we should and we continued to incur losses relating to events from therefore exit the relationship.
Conduct-related costs included in significant items are outlined in section 21.
A range Other operational risks are also monitored and managed of mitigating actions are being taken to prevent future through the use of the ORMF.
Further information on the nature of these risks is provided in For further information see 'Compliance risk' on page 178 and for Top and emerging risks on page 110. details of the investigations and legal proceedings see Note 40 on Frequency and amount of operational risk losses the Financial Statements.
The profile of operational risk incidents and associated Other operational risks included: losses is summarised below, showing the distribution compliance with regulatory agreements and orders: of operational incidents in terms of their frequency of failure to implement our obligations under the US DPA occurrence and total loss amount in US dollars.
could have a material adverse effect on our results and Operational losses were lower in 2015 than in 2014, operations.
The work of the Monitor is discussed on reflecting a reduction in losses incurred relating to large page 116, with compliance risk described below: legacy conduct-related events.
Our total loss was driven level of change creating operational complexity: primarily by provisions raised in respect of the mis-selling the Global Risk function is engaged with business of the PPI policies, foreign exchange rate investigations management in business transformation initiatives to and litigation.
ensure robust internal controls are maintained as we As in previous years, the operational risk incident profile in execute our change agenda: 2015 comprised high frequency low impact events and high fraud risks: our loss prevention performance remains impact events that occurred much less frequently.
strong in most markets, but the introduction of new Losses due to external fraud, such as card fraud, occurred technologies and ways of banking mean that we more often than other types of incident, but the amounts continue to be subject to fraud attacks as new attack involved were often small in value.
The value of fraud vectors are developed.
We continue to increase incidents in 2015 was lower than in 2014, due to the monitoring and enhance detective controls to mitigate strengthened control environment.
these risks in accordance with our risk appetite: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 177 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Operational risk Frequency of operational risk incidents by risk category Anti-bribery and corruption individual loss $10k It is unethical, illegal, and contrary to good corporate governance to bribe or corrupt others.
The Group is 2015 1% Accounting and Tax 1% 2014 committed to preventing bribery and corruption, and to 0% consistently applying the letter and spirit of applicable Financial Crime Compliance 0% anti-bribery legislation in all markets and jurisdictions 6% Regulatory Compliance in which we operate.
We have implemented a strategic 6% programme to address bribery and corruption risks and 38% Fraud 39% are embedding a new global suite of policies that make it 4% clear to all staff that Group members, employees or other Legal 4% associated persons or entities must not engage in, or 22% Operations and Systems otherwise facilitate, any form of bribery, whether direct 23% or indirect.
26% People 24% The anti-bribery and corruption programme, from training 2% Other to risk assessment, emphasises the importance of 2% consistent and standardised procedures to drive the Distribution of operational risk losses in US dollars by risk principles of detect, deter and protect and ensure that category they are incorporated into every aspect of business-asusual activities.
2015 8% Accounting and Tax 2014 2% Conduct of business 2% Financial Crime Compliance 0% We recognise that delivering fair outcomes for our 47% Regulatory Compliance customers and upholding financial market integrity is 54% critical to a sustainable business model.
We have taken 4% Fraud 6% a number of steps to raise our standards and deal with 29% historical incidents, including the following: Legal 30% we published a new Global Conduct Policy in 2015 9% Operations and Systems 7% following the approval and implementation of the global conduct approach and framework in 2014 for 1% People 1% the management of conduct designed to ensure that we 0% Other meet our strategic commitment to deliver fair outcomes 0% for our customers, and not disrupt the orderly and transparent operation of financial markets: Compliance risk we launched communications programmes and global Compliance risk arises from activities subject to rules, regulations, Group policies and other formal standards, mandatory training in respect of conduct and the including those relating to AML, counter-terrorist and Groups required values and behaviours: proliferation financing, sanctions compliance, anti-bribery we enhanced the product governance process to further and corruption, conduct of business and other regulations.
ensure products are designed to meet customers needs and are sold to suitable customer groupings.
Post Anti-money laundering and sanctions implementation and regular reviews are undertaken Revised global AML and sanctions policies were approved to help ensure products remain appropriate: in 2014.
During 2015, global businesses and countries we reviewed sales processes and sales incentive introduced new AML and sanctions procedures arising schemes, focusing on activity and rewards linked from the new policies and focused on embedding the to values-based behaviour and good conduct: procedures required to effect these policies in our day to day business operations globally.
This supported our we enhanced our surveillance capabilities and tested ongoing effort to address the US DPA requirements.
These new technologies to strengthen our capabilities to actions were in line with our strategic target to implement detect suspicious trading activity and misconduct: the highest or most effective standards globally.
The work we undertook proactive reviews of our involvement in of the Monitor, who was appointed to assess the the benchmarking processes for rates and commodities: effectiveness of our AML and sanctions compliance and programme is discussed on page 116 and our progress on we reviewed our insights into customer experience, implementing Global Standards is detailed on page 21. our analysis of the root cause of complaints and our complaint handling to ensure we continually improve and deliver better outcomes for our customers.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 178 The global businesses use a broad range of measures an individual believes that their normal reporting channels appropriate to their specific customer base and markets are unavailable or inappropriate, it is important that they to assess ongoing effectiveness of the management of have alternative channels available to them to raise concerns conduct, and enable action to be taken where potential confidentially without fear of personal repercussions.
The measures include information is referred to as whistleblowing.
relating to sales quality, customer experience and market To make whistleblowing simpler for our employees, we behaviour.
launched HSBC Confidential across the Group in August The CVC provides Board oversight of the Groups multiple 2015 to provide a global platform offering telephone, efforts to raise standards of conduct and embed the email, web and mail options for whistleblowers to bring behavioural values the Group stands for.
together all our existing whistleblowing channels.
We also maintain an external email address for complaints For further information on the CVC, see page 272. regarding accounting and internal financial controls or Further information on our conduct is provided in the Strategic auditing matters @hsbc.
Report on page 40 and for conduct-related costs relating to Matters raised are independently investigated by significant items, see page 97. appropriate subject matter teams and details of Whistleblowing investigations and outcomes including remedial action taken are reported to the CVC.
Matters raised in respect We actively encourage our employees to raise concerns of audit, accounting and internal control over financial and escalate issues so they can be dealt with effectively.
In reporting are reported to the Group Audit Committee.
most cases, individuals will raise their concerns with line management or Global Human Resources.
However, where HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 179 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
