Report of the Directors: Financial summary Use of non-GAAP financial measures Adjusted performance Financial summary Adjusted performance is computed by adjusting reported 48 results for the year-on-year effects of foreign currency Use of non-GAAP financial measures translation differences and significant items that distort 50 Consolidated income statement year-on-year comparisons.
Significant items are excluded 51 Group performance by income and expense item from adjusted performance because management and 51 Net interest income investors would ordinarily identify and consider them separately in order to better understand the underlying 53 Net fee income trends in a business.
54 Net trading income These items, which are detailed in the tables starting on Net income from financial instruments designated pages 66 and 77, include: 54 at fair value gains or losses on the disposal or reclassification of 55 Gains less losses from financial investments subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures: 56 Net insurance premium income fines, penalties, customer redress and associated 56 Other operating income provisions, together with settlements and provisions Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement relating to legal matters when their size or historical 57 in liabilities to policyholders nature mean they warrant separate consideration: 57 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions costs incurred to achieve the productivity and cost 58 Operating expenses reduction targets outlined in the Investor Update of June 2015: and 60 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 60 credit spread movements on our long-term debt Tax expense designated at fair value.
61 Consolidated balance sheet We consider adjusted performance provides useful 62 Movement in 2015 information for investors by aligning internal and external 64 Reconciliation of RoRWA measures reporting, identifying and quantifying items management 64 Critical accounting estimates and judgements believe to be significant and providing insight into how management assesses year-on-year performance.
The management commentary included in the Strategic Report, the Report of the Directors: Financial Review, together with the Foreign currency translation differences Employees and Corporate sustainability sections of Corporate Foreign currency translation differences reflect the Governance and the Directors Remuneration Report is presented movements of the US dollar against most major currencies in compliance with the IFRSs Practice Statement Management during 2015.
We exclude the translation differences when Commentary issued by the IASB.
deriving constant currency data because using this data allows us to assess balance sheet and income statement Use of non-GAAP financial performance on a like-for-like basis to better understand measures the underlying trends in the business.
Our reported results are prepared in accordance with IFRSs Foreign currency translation differences as detailed in the Financial Statements starting on Foreign currency translation differences for 2015 are computed page 336.
In measuring our performance, the financial by retranslating into US dollars for non-US dollar branches, measures that we use include those which have been subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates: derived from our reported results in order to eliminate the income statements for 2014 at the average rates of factors which distort year-on-year comparisons.
These are exchange for 2015: and considered non-GAAP financial measures.
the balance sheet at 31 December 2014 at the prevailing The primary non-GAAP financial measure we use is rates of exchange on 31 December 2015. adjusted performance.
Other non-GAAP financial No adjustment has been made to the exchange rates used to measures are described and reconciled to the most translate foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities relevant reported financial measure when used.
into the functional currencies of any HSBC branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates.
When reference is made to foreign currency translation differences in tables or commentaries, comparative data reported in the functional currencies of HSBCs operations have been translated at the appropriate exchange rates applied in the current year on the basis described above.
