Notes on the Financial Statements 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies a Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs comprise accounting standards issued or adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued or adopted by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC.
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB and as endorsed by the European Union EU.
EU-endorsed IFRSs could differ from IFRSs as issued by the IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs were not to be endorsed by the EU.
At 31 December 2015, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2015 affecting these consolidated and separate financial statements, and there was no difference between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB in terms of their application to HSBC.
Accordingly, HSBCs financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Standards adopted during the year ended 31 December 2015 There were no new standards applied during the year ended 31 December 2015.
During 2015, HSBC adopted a number of interpretations and amendments to standards which had an insignificant effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
b Differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards There are no significant differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards in terms of their application to HSBC and consequently there would be no significant differences had the financial statements been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
The Notes on the Financial Statements, taken together with the Report of the Directors, include the aggregate of all disclosures necessary to satisfy IFRSs and Hong Kong reporting requirements.
c Future accounting developments In addition to completing its projects on financial instrument accounting, revenue recognition and leasing, discussed below, the IASB is working on a project on insurance accounting which could represent significant changes to accounting requirements in the future.
Minor amendments to IFRSs The IASB has published a number of minor amendments to IFRSs through the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20122014 cycle and in a series of stand-alone amendments, one of which has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
HSBC has not early applied any of the amendments effective after 31 December 2015 and it expects they will have an insignificant effect, when applied, on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
Major new IFRSs The IASB has published IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases.
None of these IFRSs have yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments In July 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which is the comprehensive standard to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and includes requirements for classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities, impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting.
Classification and measurement The classification and measurement of financial assets will depend on how these are managed the entitys business model and their contractual cash flow characteristics.
These factors determine whether the financial assets are measured at amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI or fair value through profit or loss FVPL.
In many instances, the classification and measurement outcomes will be similar to IAS 39, although differences will arise.
For example, under IFRS 9, embedded derivatives are not separated from host financial assets and equity securities are measured at FVPL or, in limited circumstances, fair value movements will be shown in OCI.
The combined effect of the application of the business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics tests may result in some differences in the population of financial assets measured at amortised cost or fair value compared with IAS 39.
The classification of financial liabilities is essentially unchanged.
For certain liabilities measured at fair value, gains or losses relating to changes in the entitys own credit risk are to be included in other comprehensive income.
HSBC conducted an assessment of potential classification and measurement changes to financial assets based on the composition of the balance sheet as at 31 December 2014.
This may not be fully representative of the impact as at 1 January 2018 because IFRS 9 requires that business models be assessed based on the facts and circumstances from the date of initial application.
In addition, the contractual terms and conditions of the financial assets assessed as at 31 December 2014 may not reflect the contractual terms and conditions of HSBCs financial assets at transition.
However, based on the assessment HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 347 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies of financial assets as at 31 December 2014 and expectations around changes to balance sheet composition, HSBC expects that generally: loans and advances to banks and to customers and non-trading reverse repurchase agreements that are classified as loans and receivables under IAS 39 will be measured at amortised cost under IFRS 9: financial assets designated at FVPL will remain at FVPL, because it is required under IFRS 9 or designation will continue: debt securities classified as available for sale will primarily be measured at amortised cost or FVOCI, with a small minority at FVPL either because of their contractual cash flow characteristics or the business model within which they are held: debt securities classified as held to maturity will be measured at amortised cost: Treasury and other eligible bills classified as available for sale will be measured at amortised cost or FVOCI depending upon the business model in which they are held: and all equity securities will remain measured at fair value.
A significant majority will have fair value movements shown in profit or loss, while a minority will have fair value movements presented in other comprehensive income.
The equity securities for which fair value movements will be shown in other comprehensive income are business facilitation and other similar investments where HSBC holds the investments other than to generate a capital return.
Impairment The impairment requirements apply to financial assets measured at amortised cost and FVOCI, and lease receivables and certain loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts.
At initial recognition, allowance or provision in the case of commitments and guarantees is required for expected credit losses ECL resulting from default events that are possible within the next 12 months 12-month ECL.
In the event of a significant increase in credit risk, allowance or provision is required for ECL resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of the financial instrument lifetime ECL.
Financial assets where 12-month ECL is recognised are considered to be stage 1: financial assets which are considered to have experienced a significant increase in credit risk are in stage 2: and financial assets for which there is objective evidence of impairment so are considered to be in default or otherwise credit impaired are in stage 3.
The assessment of whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition is performed for each reporting period by considering the change in the risk of default occurring over the remaining life of the financial instrument, rather than by considering an increase in ECL.
The assessment of credit risk and the estimation of ECL are required to be unbiased and probability-weighted, and should incorporate all available information which is relevant to the assessment including information about past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of economic conditions at the reporting date.
In addition, the estimation of ECL should take into account the time value of money.
As a result, the recognition and measurement of impairment is intended to be more forward-looking than under IAS 39 and the resulting impairment charge will tend to be more volatile.
It will also tend to result in an increase in the total level of impairment allowances, since all financial assets will be assessed for at least 12-month ECL and the population of financial assets to which lifetime ECL applies is likely to be larger than the population for which there is objective evidence of impairment in accordance with IAS 39.
Hedge accounting The general hedge accounting requirements aim to simplify hedge accounting, creating a stronger link with risk management strategy and permitting hedge accounting to be applied to a greater variety of hedging instruments and risks.
The standard does not explicitly address macro hedge accounting strategies, which are being considered in a separate project.
To remove the risk of any conflict between existing macro hedge accounting practice and the new general hedge accounting requirements, IFRS 9 includes an accounting policy choice to remain with IAS 39 hedge accounting.
Based on the analysis performed to date, HSBC expects to exercise the accounting policy choice to continue IAS 39 hedge accounting and therefore is not currently planning to change hedge accounting, although it will implement the revised hedge accounting disclosures required by the related amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Transition The classification and measurement and impairment requirements are applied retrospectively by adjusting the opening balance sheet at the date of initial application, with no requirement to restate comparative periods.
The mandatory application date for the standard as a whole is 1 January 2018, but it is possible to apply the revised presentation for certain liabilities measured at fair value from an earlier date.
HSBC intends to revise the presentation of fair value gains and losses relating to the entitys own credit risk on certain liabilities as soon as permitted by EU law.
If this presentation was applied at 31 December 2015, the effect would be to decrease profit before tax with the opposite effect on other comprehensive income based on the change in fair value attributable to changes in HSBCs credit risk for the year, with no effect on net assets.
Further information on the change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk, including HSBCs credit risk, is disclosed in Note 25.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 348 HSBC is assessing the impact that the financial asset classification and impairment requirements will have on the financial statements.
IFRS 9 implementation programme Within HSBC, a joint Global Risk and Global Finance IFRS 9 Implementation Programme the Programme has been set up to prepare for implementation of IFRS 9 since 2012 and significant preparatory and design work has taken place.
The Programme is sponsored by the Group Chief Risk Officer and Group Finance Director.
A Steering Committee comprising senior management from Risk, Finance and HSBC Operations, Services and Technology has been established.
In common with all significant change programmes in HSBC, the Programme is managed according to the Groups business transformation framework.
Delivery of the required changes will be undertaken by individual workstreams, with Global Risk leading the work to calculate impairments and Global Finance leading the development of financial reporting systems and processes.
Significant legal entities in the Group have established steering committees to manage implementation locally, within this global framework.
Global businesses have been engaged but are not themselves responsible for the implementation activity.
To date, the Programme has been directed towards preliminary impact analysis, documenting Group accounting policy, developing the operating and system target operating models and developing risk modelling methodologies for the calculation of impairment.
In addition, an impact assessment of the classification and measurement requirements was performed during 2015.
The Programmes focus is now on the impairment models and processes which need to be developed by the end of 2016 as HSBC intends to perform a parallel run during 2017 to gain a better understanding of the potential effect of the new standard.
The Programme has a defined governance framework to operate over the impairment process once it becomes live.
The framework includes dedicated committees to review, challenge and sign off the assumptions used and the results in each significant legal entity, and second-line assurance capabilities for each key step in the process.
An expert panel will be established to govern the setting of forward-looking economic assumptions used in the process.
Governance over the impairment process is the responsibility of the Global Risk and Global Finance functions, operating within each member company of the Group.
Global businesses are consulted but are not granted decision making power.
HSBC intends to quantify the potential impact of IFRS 9 once it is practicable to provide reliable estimates, which will be no later than in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017.
Until sufficient models have been developed and tested, HSBC will not have a reliable understanding of the potential impact on its financial statements and any consequential effects on regulatory capital requirements.
In the absence of information on whether there will be any changes to the regulatory requirements, assumptions will have to be made about how the existing regulatory requirements will be interpreted when IFRS 9 is adopted.
For example, the relationship between specific and general credit risk adjustments in accordance with Basel requirements and the IFRS 9 stages is unclear.
The Basel Committee is considering the implications of the new accounting requirements for existing regulatory requirements.
Comparison of IAS 39 accounting policies with IFRS 9 The accounting policies and critical accounting estimates and judgements for the impairment of loans and advances and available-for-sale financial assets in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments are set out in Note 1 j.
Their equivalents for financial assets at amortised cost and at FVOCI in accordance with IFRS 9 are being developed, but the following similarities and differences are likely to be important to understanding the potential effect of the change in accounting policy resulting from the implementation of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Amortised cost The accounting policies in accordance with IAS 39 generally make a distinction between individually significant loans and homogeneous groups of loans which are assessed collectively.
This distinction has less relevance in developing IFRS 9 accounting policies.
However, under IFRS 9, whether the loans are managed through wholesale credit risk systems or retail credit risk systems becomes the more relevant distinction because of differences in the types of information available and the way credit risk is managed.
Stage 3 Financial assets will be included in stage 3 when there is objective evidence that the loan is credit impaired.
The objective evidence that is used is the same as the criteria used by HSBC to determine whether an individually significant loan is impaired in accordance with IAS 39 and is set out on page 355.
Therefore, the population included in stage 3 is expected to be consistent with impaired loans under IAS 39 which are considered individually significant.
For wholesale loans, individual discounted cash flow calculations will continue to be performed and impairment losses determined as set out on page 355.
Changes may be made to these calculations to ensure the measurement requirements of IFRS 9 are met.
For example, the net realisable value of security will be adjusted for expected future changes in market prices.
In accordance with IAS 39, statistical methods are used to determine impairment losses on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant using either roll rate methodologies or historical loss rate experience for loans.
Under these methodologies, impairment allowances are recognised at a portfolio level.
However, loans are classified as impaired for presentation purposes when they are more than 90 days past due or have been renegotiated for HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 349 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies credit risk reasons.
For retail loans, an exception is made for individual loans that are in arrears by more than 90 days but have been individually assessed to have no indications of impairment, and these are not classified as impaired.
Under IFRS 9, HSBC expects to determine stage 3 for these populations by considering the relevant objective evidence, primarily whether contractual payments of either principal or interest are past due for more than 90 days, or a concession has been granted to the borrower for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers financial condition, or the loan is otherwise considered to be in default.
HSBC does not expect to rebut the presumption in IFRS 9 that loans which are 90 days past due are in default for retail loans, even where regulatory rules permit default to be defined based on 180 days past due.
The impairment allowance is expected to be determined by the same calculation used for stage 2, with the probability of default set to 1.
The result may, therefore, not be the same as that determined by the current statistical methods and the population disclosed as stage 3 will not necessarily correspond with that disclosed as impaired in accordance with IAS 39.
Except for retail portfolios with regulatory default definitions of 180 days, HSBCs intention is to align the definition of default with the regulatory definition as far as possible and for stage 3 to represent all loans which are considered defaulted or otherwise credit impaired.
The policy on the write-off of loans and advances included on page 357 is expected to remain unchanged.
As described on page 197, the contractual terms of a loan may be modified for a number of reasons, which include forbearance.
Only some of the forbearance strategies result in loans being renegotiated.
For such modifications, the current treatment as described on pages 197-198 and 357 will remain the same under IFRS 9, except for new loans recognised as a result of the original loan being derecognised following a renegotiation.
These loans will be classified as originated creditimpaired and will retain this classification until derecognition.
For all other modifications, the general policy on derecognition as described on page 401 will apply.
Other than originated credit-impaired loans, all other modified loans could be transferred out of stage 3 if they no longer exhibit any evidence of being credit impaired or, in the case of renegotiated loans, there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a significant reduction in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows and there are no other indicators of impairment, as described on page 198.
These loans could be transferred to stages 1 or 2 based on the mechanism as described below by comparing the risk of a default occurring at the reporting date based on the modified contractual terms and the risk of a default occurring at initial recognition based on the original, unmodified contractual terms.
Any amount written off as a result of the modification of contractual terms would not be reversed.
Stage 2 In accordance with IFRS 9, financial assets are considered to be in stage 2 when their credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition so it is appropriate to recognise lifetime ECL.
Since this is not a concept in IAS 39, it is likely to result in increased allowance as the result of the recognition of lifetime ECL for populations that are not considered to be credit impaired.
The analysis of credit risk is multifactor and the determination of whether a specific factor is relevant and its weight compared with other factors will depend on the type of product, the characteristics of the financial instrument and the borrower, and the geographical region.
Therefore, it is not possible to provide a single set of criteria that will determine what is considered to be a significant increase in credit risk.
Since the concept is relative and significance in part depends on the credit risk at initial recognition, credit quality disclosures that report credit grades as at the balance sheet date may not reflect the populations in stage 2 or those that are at risk of moving to stage 2.
For wholesale portfolios and significant retail portfolios, HSBC intends to consider whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition using a combination of individual and collective information, and will reflect the increase in credit risk at the individual loan level to the extent practicable.
The main factor that will be considered is a lifetime probability of default PD or a 12-month PD where this provides a reasonable approximation of changes in the lifetime risk of default, adjusted to be consistent with the current economic conditions and the expected future economic conditions which are expected to affect credit risk.
The PD will be derived from the customer risk rating for wholesale portfolios and from the credit scores for retail portfolios.
The PD for wholesale is determined on an obligor level and for retail at the level of the individual facility.
In situations where a 12-month PD would not be appropriate, for example, where the financial instrument only has significant payment obligations beyond the next 12 months, additional factors will be considered or adjustments made to ensure that the lifetime credit risk is appropriately considered.
The PDs will also be adjusted to incorporate the effect of economic assumptions, such as interest rates, unemployment rates and GDP forecasts that can be statistically related to changes in PD which have an impact beyond the next 12 months.
These statistical relationships are expected to be established through the processes developed for stress testing.
In addition, other relevant factors which may not be adequately reflected in the information used to derive PDs, including past due status and whether the financial asset is subject to additional monitoring through the watch list process for wholesale portfolios, will be taken into account.
HSBC is in the process of calibrating and testing the thresholds or magnitude of change required and mechanisms for transfer from stage 1 to stage 2 and vice versa across different portfolios so it is not possible to provide further detail at this time.
The HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 350 aim is to establish the points where the change in credit risk is considered meaningful in risk management terms and to test these points against subsequent stage movements and defaults.
Where less sophisticated default metrics are used or credit scores are not available, as tends to apply with the less significant retail portfolios, a consistent but simplified approach is expected to be used.
In particular, for any retail portfolio, days past due will be considered in determining loans transferred to stage 2 and the more significant portfolios will supplement this information with additional mechanisms linked to PDs.
HSBC expects to finalise the transfer criteria for the more significant portfolios during 2016.
Stage 1 In accordance with IAS 39 see page 356, incurred but not yet identified impairment is recognised on individually assessed loans for which no evidence of impairment has been specifically identified by estimating a collective allowance determined after taking into account factors including the estimated period between impairment occurring and the loss being identified.
This is assessed empirically on a periodic basis and may vary over time.
Similarly, for homogeneous groups of loans and advances which are assessed under IAS 39 on a collective basis, the inherent loss is determined using risk factors including the period of time between loss identification and write-off which is regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes.
Under IFRS 9, financial assets which are not considered to have significantly increased in credit risk have loss allowances measured at an amount equal to 12 months ECL.
This 12-month time horizon is likely to be equal to or longer than the period estimated under IAS 39 typically between 6 and 12 months, which will tend to result in IFRS 9 allowances being larger.
In the absence of models able to calculate IFRS 9 allowances, it is not possible to estimate the difference.
Methodologies applied to measure 12-month and lifetime expected credit losses ECLs are calculated using three main components, i. e. a probability of default PD, a loss given default LGD and the exposure at default EAD.
For accounting purposes, the 12-month and lifetime PDs represent the probability of a default occurring over the next 12 months or the lifetime of the financial instruments, respectively, based on conditions existing at the balance sheet date and future economic conditions that affect credit risk.
The LGD represents losses expected on default, taking into account the mitigating effect of collateral, its expected value when realised and the time value of money.
The EAD represents the expected balance at default, taking into account the repayment of principal and interest from the balance sheet date to the default event together with any expected drawdown of a committed facility.
12-month ECL is calculated by multiplying the 12-month PD, LGD and EAD.
Lifetime ECL is calculated using the lifetime PD rather than the 12-month PD.
Credit loss modelling techniques HSBC plans to base the ECL calculations on the systems used to calculate Basel expected losses ELs.
This is considered to be most efficient given the similarities in the calculations.
However, certain adjustments need to be made to the Basel risk components PD, LGD, and EAD to meet IFRS 9 requirements.
For wholesale portfolios and material residential mortgage and fixed-term loan portfolios, ECL will be calculated at the individual loan level.
The main adjustments necessary to Basel risk components are explained in the table below: Model Regulatory capital IFRS 9 PD Through the cycle represents long-run average Point in time based on current conditions, adjusted PD throughout a full economic cycle to take into account estimates of future conditions that The definition of default includes a backstop will impact PD of 90 days past due, although this has been Default backstop of 90 days past due for all portfolios modified to 180 days past due for some portfolios, particularly UK and US mortgages EAD Cannot be lower than current balance Amortisation captured for term products LGD Downturn LGD consistent losses expected to be Expected LGD based on estimate of loss given default suffered during a severe but plausible economic including the expected impact of future economic downturn conditions such as changes in value of collateral Regulatory floors may apply to mitigate risk of No floors underestimating downturn LGD due to lack of Discounted using the original effective interest rate of historical data the loan Discounted using cost of capital Only costs associated with obtaining selling collateral All collection costs included included Other Discounted back from point of default to balance sheet date IFRS 9 PD and LGD estimates also have to be flexed to capture the effects of forward-looking macroeconomic variables.
The aim is to use existing stress testing models to measure these effects.
Transferring between stages will be applied at individual loan level and will also capture the effects of forward-looking macroeconomic variables.
For material non-term retail loans, transfer between stages will also be applied at individual loan level.
However, loans will be aggregated into segments based on PD or other risk drivers for the purpose of ECL measurement, to make the calculations HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 351 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies more efficient.
For smaller portfolios where less information is available, simplified approaches will be applied which will result in more aggregated transfers between stages and ECL calculation.
Such aggregation will affect the granularity of disclosure.
A new global committee, supported by Global Risk Strategy, internal economics experts and external economic forecasting services, will be established to consider and approve the forward-looking macroeconomic assumptions that should be applied, with the objective of developing unbiased internally coherent economic scenarios for each jurisdiction.
This committee will also be charged with ensuring that ECL allowance meets the IFRS 9 measurement principle for unbiased and probabilityweighted amounts derived by evaluating a range of possible outcomes.
The calculation methodologies to meet this principle and review and challenge structures are in the process of being developed.
In addition, local risk committees will review and challenge the impairment allowances recognised in the individual legal entitys financial statements.
Fair value through other comprehensive income For financial assets measured at FVOCI, impairment determined in accordance with the policies and processes outlined above is recognised in profit or loss.
The financial assets are recognised on the balance sheet at fair value so the amortised cost impairment allowance balance is disclosed as a memorandum item.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The original effective date of IFRS 15 has been delayed by one year and the standard is now effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early application permitted.
IFRS 15 provides a principles-based approach for revenue recognition, and introduces the concept of recognising revenue for obligations as they are satisfied.
The standard should be applied retrospectively, with certain practical expedients available.
HSBC has assessed the impact of IFRS 15 and it expects that the standard will have no significant effect, when applied, on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
IFRS 16 Leases In January 2016, the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases with an effective date of annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRS 16 results in lessees accounting for most leases within the scope of the standard in a manner similar to the way in which finance leases are currently accounted for under IAS 17 Leases.
Lessees will recognise a right of use asset and a corresponding financial liability on the balance sheet.
The asset will be amortised over the length of the lease and the financial liability measured at amortised cost.
Lessor accounting remains substantially the same as in IAS 17.
HSBC is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 16 and it is not practicable to quantify the effect as at the date of the publication of these financial statements.
d Presentation of information Disclosures under IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to insurance contracts and financial instruments are included in the audited sections of the Report of the Directors: Risk on pages 101 to 226.
Capital disclosures under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements are included in the audited sections of Report of the Directors: Capital on pages 227 to 248.
Disclosures relating to HSBCs securitisation activities and structured products are included in the audited section of Report of the Directors: Risk on pages 101 to 226.
In accordance with HSBCs policy to provide disclosures that help investors and other stakeholders understand the Groups performance, financial position and changes thereto, the information provided in the Notes on the Financial Statements and the Report of the Directors goes beyond the minimum levels required by accounting standards, statutory and regulatory requirements and listing rules.
In particular, HSBC provides additional disclosures having regard to the recommendations of the Enhanced Disclosures Task Force report Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks issued in October 2012 and Impact of Expected Credit Loss Approaches on Bank Risk Disclosures issued in December 2015.
The report aims to help financial institutions identify areas that investors had highlighted as needing better and more transparent information about banks risks, and how these risks relate to performance measurement and reporting.
In addition, HSBC follows the British Bankers Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure the BBA Code.
The BBA Code aims to increase the quality and comparability of UK banks disclosures and sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance.
In line with the principles of the BBA Code, HSBC assesses good practice recommendations issued from time to time by relevant regulators and standard setters and will assess the applicability and relevance of such guidance, enhancing disclosures where appropriate.
In publishing the parent company financial statements together with the Group financial statements, HSBC Holdings has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes.
HSBCs consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds its business.
The US dollar is also HSBC Holdings functional currency because the US dollar and currencies linked to it are the most significant currencies relevant to the underlying transactions, HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 352 events and conditions of its subsidiaries, as well as representing a significant proportion of its funds generated from financing activities.
e Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and judgements about future conditions.
In view of the inherent uncertainties and the high level of subjectivity involved in the recognition or measurement of items listed below, it is possible that the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from those on which managements estimates are based, resulting in materially different conclusions from those reached by management for the purposes of the 2015 Financial Statements.
Managements selection of HSBCs accounting policies which contain critical estimates and judgements is listed below: it reflects the materiality of the items to which the policies are applied and the high degree of judgement and estimation uncertainty involved: Impairment of loans and advances: Note 1 j : Deferred tax assets: Note 8: Valuation of financial instruments: Note 13: Impairment of interests in associates: Note 19: Goodwill impairment: Note 20: Provisions: Note 29. f Going concern The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and parent company have the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range of information relating to present and future conditions, including future projections of profitability, cash flows and capital resources.
g Consolidation and related disclosures HSBC controls and consequently consolidates an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Control is initially assessed based on consideration of all facts and circumstances, and is subsequently reassessed when there are significant changes to the initial setup.
Where an entity is governed by voting rights, HSBC would consolidate when it holds, directly or indirectly, the necessary voting rights to pass resolutions by the governing body.
In all other cases, the assessment of control is more complex and requires judgement of other factors, including having exposure to variability of returns, power over relevant activities or holding the power as agent or principal.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration, including contingent consideration, given at the date of exchange.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
The acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are generally measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount of non-controlling interest and the fair value of HSBCs previously held equity interest, if any, over the net of the amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
The amount of non-controlling interest is measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
For acquisitions achieved in stages, the previously held equity interest is remeasured at the acquisition-date fair value with the resulting gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
All intra-HSBC transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC also include the attributable share of the results and reserves of joint ventures and associates, based on either financial statements made up to 31 December or pro-rated amounts adjusted for any material transactions or events occurring between the date of financial statements available and 31 December.
h Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Any resulting exchange differences are included in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date of the initial transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was determined.
Any foreign exchange component of a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised either in other comprehensive income or in the income statement depending on where the gain or loss on the underlying non-monetary item is recognised.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 353 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies In the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars are translated into the Groups presentation currency at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date, while their results are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange for the reporting period.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of opening foreign currency net assets, and the retranslation of the results for the reporting period from the average rate to the exchange rate at the period end, are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Exchange differences on a monetary item that is part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the income statement of the separate financial statements and in other comprehensive income in consolidated financial statements.
On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement as a reclassification adjustment.
i Loans and advances to banks and customers These include loans and advances originated by HSBC, not classified as held for trading or designated at fair value.
They are recognised when cash is advanced to a borrower and are derecognised when either the borrower repays its obligations or the loans are sold or substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred.
They are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less impairment allowance.
Loans and advances are reclassified to Assets held for sale when they meet the criteria presented in Note 23, though their measurement remains in accordance with this policy.
HSBC may commit to underwrite loans on fixed contractual terms for specified periods of time.
When the loan arising from the lending commitment is expected to be held for trading, the commitment to lend is recorded as a derivative.
On drawdown, the loan is classified as held for trading.
When HSBC intends to hold the loan, a provision on the loan commitment is only recorded where it is probable that HSBC will incur a loss.
On inception, the loan to be held is recorded at its fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
For certain transactions, such as leveraged finance and syndicated lending activities, the cash advanced may not be the best evidence of the fair value of the loan.
For these loans, where the initial fair value is lower than the cash amount advanced, the difference is charged to the income statement in other operating income.
The write-down is recovered over the life of the loan through the recognition of interest income, unless the loan becomes impaired.
j Impairment of loans and advances and available-for-sale financial assets Critical accounting estimates and judgements Impairment of loans and advances Loan impairment allowances represent managements best estimate of losses incurred in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date.
Management is required to exercise judgement in making assumptions and estimates when calculating loan impairment allowances on both individually and collectively assessed loans and advances.
See the Movement in impairment allowances by industry sector and by geographical region table on page 134 for a breakdown of individual and collective impairment allowances.
Collective impairment allowances are subject to estimation uncertainty, in part because it is not practicable to identify losses on an individual loan basis due to the large number of individually insignificant loans in the portfolio.
The estimation methods include the use of statistical analyses of historical information, supplemented with significant management judgement, to assess whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual level of incurred losses is likely to be greater or less than historical experience.
Where changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural conditions result in the most recent trends in portfolio risk factors being not fully reflected in the statistical models, risk factors are taken into account by adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely from historical loss experience.
Risk factors include loan portfolio growth, product mix, unemployment rates, bankruptcy trends, geographical concentrations, loan product features, economic conditions such as national and local trends in housing markets, the level of interest rates, portfolio seasoning, account management policies and practices, changes in laws and regulations and other influences on customer payment patterns.
Different factors are applied in different regions and countries to reflect local economic conditions, laws and regulations.
The methodology and the assumptions used in calculating impairment losses are reviewed regularly in the light of differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience.
For example, roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
For individually assessed loans, judgement is required in determining whether there is objective evidence that a loss event has occurred and, if so, the measurement of the impairment allowance.
In determining whether there is objective evidence that a loss event has occurred, judgement is exercised in evaluating all relevant information on indicators of impairment, including the consideration of whether payments are contractually past-due and the consideration of other factors indicating deterioration in the financial condition and outlook of borrowers affecting their ability to pay.
A higher level of judgement is required for loans to borrowers showing signs of financial difficulty in market sectors experiencing economic stress, particularly where the likelihood of repayment is affected by the prospects for refinancing or the sale of a specified asset.
For those loans where objective evidence of impairment exists, management determine the size of the allowance required based on a range of factors such as the realisable value of security, the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy, the viability of the customers business model and the capacity to trade successfully out of financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to service debt obligations.
HSBC might provide loan forbearance to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties by agreeing to modify the contractual payment terms of loans in order to improve the management of customer relationships, maximise collection opportunities or avoid default or repossession.
Where forbearance activities are significant, higher levels of judgement and estimation uncertainty are involved in determining their effects on loan impairment allowances.
Judgements are involved in differentiating the credit risk characteristics of forbearance cases, including HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 354 those which return to performing status following renegotiation.
Where collectively assessed loan portfolios include significant levels of loan forbearance, portfolios are segmented to reflect the different credit risk characteristics of forbearance cases, and estimates are made of the incurred losses inherent within each forbearance portfolio segment.
Forbearance activities take place in both retail and wholesale loan portfolios, but our largest concentration is in the US, in HSBC Finances CML portfolio.
The exercise of judgement requires the use of assumptions which are highly subjective and very sensitive to the risk factors, in particular to changes in economic and credit conditions across a large number of geographical areas.
Many of the factors have a high degree of interdependency and there is no single factor to which our loan impairment allowances as a whole are sensitive.
Impairment of loans and advances Losses for impaired loans are recognised when there is objective evidence that impairment of a loan or portfolio of loans has occurred.
Impairment allowances that are calculated on individual loans or on groups of loans assessed collectively are recorded as charges to the income statement and are recorded against the carrying amount of impaired loans on the balance sheet.
Losses which may arise from future events are not recognised.
Individually assessed loans and advances The factors considered in determining whether a loan is individually significant for the purposes of assessing impairment include the size of the loan, the number of loans in the portfolio, the importance of the individual loan relationship and how this is managed.
Loans that are determined to be individually significant based on the above and other relevant factors will be individually assessed for impairment, except when volumes of defaults and losses are sufficient to justify treatment under a collective methodology.
Loans considered as individually significant are typically to corporate and commercial customers, are for larger amounts and are managed on an individual basis.
For these loans, HSBC considers on a case-by-case basis at each balance sheet date whether there is any objective evidence that a loan is impaired.
The criteria used to make this assessment include: known cash flow difficulties experienced by the borrower: contractual payments of either principal or interest being past due for more than 90 days: the probability that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial realisation: a concession granted to the borrower for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers financial difficulty that results in forgiveness or postponement of principal, interest or fees, where the concession is not insignificant: and there has been deterioration in the financial condition or outlook of the borrower such that its ability to repay is considered doubtful.
For loans where objective evidence of impairment exists, impairment losses are determined considering the following factors: HSBCs aggregate exposure to the customer: the viability of the customers business model and its capacity to trade successfully out of financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to service debt obligations: the amount and timing of expected receipts and recoveries: the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy: the extent of other creditors commitments ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and the likelihood of other creditors continuing to support the company: the complexity of determining the aggregate amount and ranking of all creditor claims and the extent to which legal and insurance uncertainties are evident: the realisable value of security or other credit mitigants and likelihood of successful repossession: the likely costs of obtaining and selling collateral as part of foreclosure: the ability of the borrower to obtain, and make payments in, the currency of the loan if not denominated in local currency: and when available, the secondary market price of the debt.
The determination of the realisable value of security is based on the most recently updated market value at the time the impairment assessment is performed.
The value is not adjusted for expected future changes in market prices, though adjustments are made to reflect local conditions such as forced sale discounts.
Impairment losses are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of a loan, which include expected future receipts of contractual interest, at the loans original effective interest rate or an approximation thereof, and comparing the resultant present value with the loans current carrying amount.
The impairment allowances on individually significant accounts are reviewed at least quarterly and more regularly when circumstances require.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 355 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Collectively assessed loans and advances Impairment is assessed collectively to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual assessment or for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant.
Retail lending portfolios are generally assessed for impairment collectively as the portfolios are generally large homogeneous loan pools.
Incurred but not yet identified impairment Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of impairment has been specifically identified on an individual basis are grouped together according to their credit risk characteristics for a collective impairment assessment.
These credit risk characteristics may include country of origination, type of business involved, type of products offered, security obtained or other relevant factors.
This assessment captures impairment losses that HSBC has incurred as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date which HSBC is not able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably estimated.
When information becomes available which identifies losses on individual loans within a group, those loans are removed from the group and assessed individually.
The collective impairment allowance is determined after taking into account: historical loss experience in portfolios of similar credit risk characteristics for example, by industry sector, loan grade or product : the estimated period between a loss occurring and the loss being identified and evidenced by the establishment of an appropriate allowance against the individual loan: and managements judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual level of inherent losses at the balance sheet date is likely to be greater or less than that suggested by historical experience.
The period between a loss occurring and its identification is estimated by management for each identified portfolio based on economic and market conditions, customer behaviour, portfolio management information, credit management techniques and collection and recovery experiences in the market.
As it is assessed empirically on a periodic basis, the estimated period may vary over time as these factors change.
Homogeneous groups of loans and advances Statistical methods are used to determine collective impairment losses for homogeneous groups of loans not considered individually significant.
The methods that are used to calculate collective allowances are: When appropriate empirical information is available, HSBC utilises roll-rate methodology, which employs statistical analyses of historical data and experience of delinquency and default to reliably estimate the amount of the loans that will eventually be written off as a result of the events occurring before the balance sheet date but which HSBC is not able to identify individually.
Individual loans are grouped using ranges of past due days: statistical analysis is then used to estimate the likelihood that loans in each range will progress through the various stages of delinquency and become irrecoverable.
Additionally, individual loans are segmented based on their credit characteristics as described above.
In applying this methodology, adjustments are made to estimate the periods of time between a loss event occurring and its discovery, for example through a missed payment known as the emergence period and the period of time between discovery and writeoff known as the outcome period.
Current economic conditions are also evaluated when calculating the appropriate level of allowance required to cover inherent loss.
In certain highly-developed markets, sophisticated models also take into account behavioural and account management trends as revealed in, for example, bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics.
When the portfolio size is small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll-rate methodology, HSBC adopts a basic formulaic approach based on historical loss rate experience, or a discounted cash flow model.
Where a basic formulaic approach is undertaken, the period between a loss event occurring and its identification is explicitly estimated by local management, and is typically between six and twelve months.
The inherent loss within each portfolio is assessed on the basis of statistical models using historical data observations which are updated periodically to reflect recent portfolio and economic trends.
When the most recent trends arising from changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural conditions are not fully reflected in the statistical models, they are taken into account by adjusting the impairment allowances derived from the statistical models to reflect these changes as at the balance sheet date.
Write-off of loans and advances Loans and the related impairment allowance accounts are normally written off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of recovery.
Where loans are secured, this is generally after receipt of any proceeds from the realisation of security.
In circumstances where the net realisable value of any collateral has been determined and there is no reasonable expectation of further recovery, write-off may be earlier.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 356 Reversals of impairment If the amount of an impairment loss decreases in a subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the excess is written back by reducing the loan impairment allowance account accordingly.
The write-back is recognised in the income statement.
Assets acquired in exchange for loans Non-financial assets acquired in exchange for loans as part of an orderly realisation are recorded as Assets held for sale and reported in Other assets if those assets are classified as held for sale.
The asset acquired is recorded at the lower of its fair value less costs to sell and the carrying amount of the loan net of impairment allowance at the date of exchange.
No depreciation is charged in respect of assets held for sale.
Write-downs of the acquired asset to fair value less cost to sell and any reversals of previous write-downs are recognised in the income statement in Other operating income, together with any realised gains or losses on disposal.
Renegotiated loans Loans subject to collective impairment assessment whose terms have been renegotiated are no longer considered past due, but are treated as up to date loans for measurement purposes once a minimum number of payments required have been received.
Where collectively assessed loan portfolios include significant levels of renegotiated loans, these loans are segregated from other parts of the loan portfolio for the purposes of collective impairment assessment to reflect their risk profile.
Loans subject to individual impairment assessment, whose terms have been renegotiated, are subject to ongoing review to determine whether they remain impaired.
The carrying amounts of loans that have been classified as renegotiated retain this classification until maturity or derecognition.
A loan that is renegotiated is derecognised if the existing agreement is cancelled and a new agreement made on substantially different terms or if the terms of an existing agreement are modified such that the renegotiated loan is substantially a different financial instrument.
Any new loans that arise following derecognition events will continue to be disclosed as renegotiated loans and are assessed for impairment as above.
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are assessed at each balance sheet date for objective evidence of impairment.
If such evidence exists as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset a loss event, and that loss event has an impact which can be reliably measured on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset, an impairment loss is recognised.
If the available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, the difference between its acquisition cost net of any principal repayments and amortisation and its current fair value, less any previous impairment loss recognised in the income statement, is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement within Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions for debt instruments and within Gains less losses from financial investments for equities.
The impairment methodologies for available-for-sale financial assets are set out as follows: Available-for-sale debt securities.
In assessing objective evidence of impairment at the reporting date, HSBC considers all available evidence, including observable data or information about events specifically relating to the securities which may result in a shortfall in the recovery of future cash flows.
Financial difficulties of the issuer, as well as other factors such as information about the issuers liquidity, business and financial risk exposures, levels of and trends in default for similar financial assets, national and local economic trends and conditions, and the fair value of collateral and guarantees may be considered individually, or in combination, to determine if there is objective evidence of impairment.
In addition, the performance of underlying collateral and the extent and depth of market price declines is relevant when assessing objective evidence of impairment of available-for-sale ABSs.
The primary indicators of potential impairment are considered to be adverse fair value movements and the disappearance of an active market for a security, while changes in credit ratings are of secondary importance.
Objective evidence of impairment may include specific information about the issuer as detailed above, but may also include information about significant changes in technology, markets, economics or the law that provides evidence that the cost of the equity securities may not be recovered.
A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the equity below its cost is also objective evidence of impairment.
In assessing whether it is significant, the decline in fair value is evaluated against the original cost of the asset at initial recognition.
In assessing whether it is prolonged, the decline is evaluated against the continuous period in which the fair value of the asset has been below its original cost at initial recognition.
Once an impairment loss has been recognised, the subsequent accounting treatment for changes in the fair value of that asset depends on the type of asset: for an available-for-sale debt security, a subsequent decline in the fair value of the instrument is recognised in the income statement when there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of further decreases in the estimated future cash HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 357 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 1 Significant accounting policies 2 Net income from financial instruments at FV 3 Net insurance premium income flows of the financial asset.
Where there is no further objective evidence of impairment, the decline in the fair value of the financial asset is recognised in other comprehensive income.
If the fair value of a debt security increases in a subsequent period, and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, or the instrument is no longer impaired, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement: for an available-for-sale equity security, all subsequent increases in the fair value of the instrument are treated as a revaluation and are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Impairment losses recognised on the equity security are not reversed through the income statement.
Subsequent decreases in the fair value of the available-for-sale equity security are recognised in the income statement to the extent that further cumulative impairment losses have been incurred.
k Non-trading reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements When securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a predetermined price repos, they remain on the balance sheet and a liability is recorded in respect of the consideration received.
Securities purchased under commitments to resell reverse repos are not recognised on the balance sheet and an asset is recorded in respect of the initial consideration paid.
Non-trading repos and reverse repos are measured at amortised cost.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price or between the purchase and resale price is treated as interest and recognised in net interest income over the life of the agreement.
l Operating income Interest income and expense Interest income and expense for all financial instruments except for those classified as held for trading or designated at fair value except for debt securities issued by HSBC and derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt securities are recognised in Interest income and Interest expense in the income statement using the effective interest method.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts or payments through the expected life of the financial instrument or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
Interest on impaired financial assets is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
Non-interest income and expense Fee income is earned from a diverse range of services provided by HSBC to its customers.
Fee income is accounted for as follows: income earned on the execution of a significant act is recognised as revenue when the act is completed for example, fees arising from negotiating or participating in the negotiation of a transaction for a third party, such as an arrangement for the acquisition of shares or other securities : income earned from the provision of services is recognised as revenue as the services are provided for example, asset management, portfolio and other management advisory and service fees : and income which forms an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument is recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate for example, certain loan commitment fees and recorded in Interest income.
Net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading, together with the related interest income, expense and dividends.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
This is the ex-dividend date for listed equity securities, and usually the date when shareholders approve the dividend for unlisted equity securities.
The accounting policies for net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value and for net insurance premium income are disclosed in Note 2 and Note 3.
