Notes on the Financial Statements 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies a Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs comprise accounting standards issued or adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued or adopted by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC.
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB and as endorsed by the European Union EU.
EU-endorsed IFRSs could differ from IFRSs as issued by the IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs were not to be endorsed by the EU.
At 31 December 2015, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2015 affecting these consolidated and separate financial statements, and there was no difference between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB in terms of their application to HSBC.
Accordingly, HSBCs financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Standards adopted during the year ended 31 December 2015 There were no new standards applied during the year ended 31 December 2015.
During 2015, HSBC adopted a number of interpretations and amendments to standards which had an insignificant effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
b Differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards There are no significant differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards in terms of their application to HSBC and consequently there would be no significant differences had the financial statements been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
The Notes on the Financial Statements, taken together with the Report of the Directors, include the aggregate of all disclosures necessary to satisfy IFRSs and Hong Kong reporting requirements.
c Future accounting developments In addition to completing its projects on financial instrument accounting, revenue recognition and leasing, discussed below, the IASB is working on a project on insurance accounting which could represent significant changes to accounting requirements in the future.
Minor amendments to IFRSs The IASB has published a number of minor amendments to IFRSs through the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20122014 cycle and in a series of stand-alone amendments, one of which has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
HSBC has not early applied any of the amendments effective after 31 December 2015 and it expects they will have an insignificant effect, when applied, on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
Major new IFRSs The IASB has published IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases.
None of these IFRSs have yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments In July 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which is the comprehensive standard to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and includes requirements for classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities, impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting.
Classification and measurement The classification and measurement of financial assets will depend on how these are managed the entitys business model and their contractual cash flow characteristics.
These factors determine whether the financial assets are measured at amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI or fair value through profit or loss FVPL.
In many instances, the classification and measurement outcomes will be similar to IAS 39, although differences will arise.
For example, under IFRS 9, embedded derivatives are not separated from host financial assets and equity securities are measured at FVPL or, in limited circumstances, fair value movements will be shown in OCI.
The combined effect of the application of the business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics tests may result in some differences in the population of financial assets measured at amortised cost or fair value compared with IAS 39.
The classification of financial liabilities is essentially unchanged.
For certain liabilities measured at fair value, gains or losses relating to changes in the entitys own credit risk are to be included in other comprehensive income.
HSBC conducted an assessment of potential classification and measurement changes to financial assets based on the composition of the balance sheet as at 31 December 2014.
This may not be fully representative of the impact as at 1 January 2018 because IFRS 9 requires that business models be assessed based on the facts and circumstances from the date of initial application.
In addition, the contractual terms and conditions of the financial assets assessed as at 31 December 2014 may not reflect the contractual terms and conditions of HSBCs financial assets at transition.
However, based on the assessment HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 347 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
