within the charge to UK corporation tax are also not Taxation of shares and entitled to tax credits on any dividends received even if dividends received before 6 April 2016.
Taxation UK residents If the conditions for exemption are not met or cease to be satisfied, or a shareholder within the charge to UK The following is a summary, under current law, of certain UK corporation tax elects for an otherwise exempt dividend to tax considerations that are likely to be material to the be taxable, the shareholder will be subject to UK ownership and disposition of HSBC Holdings ordinary corporation tax on dividends received from HSBC Holdings shares.
The summary does not purport to be a at the rate of corporation tax applicable to that comprehensive description of all the tax considerations that shareholder.
may be relevant to a holder of shares.
In particular, the summary deals with shareholders who are resident solely in Scrip dividends the UK for UK tax purposes and only with holders who hold Information on the taxation consequences of the HSBC the shares as investments and who are the beneficial owners Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the 2014 fourth of the shares, and does not address the tax treatment of interim dividend and the first, second and third interim certain classes of holders such as dealers in securities.
dividends for 2015 was set out in the Secretarys letters to Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own shareholders of 20 March, 5 June, 26 August and advisers regarding the tax consequences of an investment 4 November 2015.
In no case was the difference between in shares in light of their particular circumstances, including the cash dividend foregone and the market value of the the effect of any national, state or local laws.
scrip dividend in excess of 15% of the market value.
Taxation of dividends Accordingly, for individual shareholders, the amount of the dividend income chargeable to tax, and, the acquisition Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by price of the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for UK capital HSBC Holdings.
gains tax purposes, was the cash dividend foregone.
UK resident individuals: periods to 5 April 2016 Taxation of capital gains For periods up to 5 April 2016 dividends are paid with an The computation of the capital gains tax liability arising on associated tax credit which is available for set-off by certain disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings by shareholders subject individual shareholders against any liability they may have to UK tax on capital gains can be complex, partly depending to UK income tax.
Currently, the associated tax credit is on whether, for example, the shares were purchased since equivalent to 10% of the combined cash dividend and tax April 1991, acquired in 1991 in exchange for shares in The credit, i. e. one-ninth of the cash dividend.
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, or For individual shareholders who are resident in the UK for acquired subsequent to 1991 in exchange for shares in other taxation purposes and liable to UK income tax at the basic companies.
rate, no further UK income tax liability arises on the receipt For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition cost for of a dividend from HSBC Holdings.
Individual shareholders ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of subsequent who are liable to UK income tax at the higher rate or rights and capitalisation issues.
Any capital gain arising on a additional rate are taxed on the combined amount of the disposal by a UK company may also be adjusted to take dividend and the tax credit at the dividend upper rate account of indexation allowance.
If in doubt, shareholders currently 32.5% and the dividend additional rate are recommended to consult their professional advisers.
The tax credit is available for set-off against the dividend upper rate and the dividend Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax additional rate liability.
Individual UK resident shareholders Transfers of shares by a written instrument of transfer are not entitled to any tax credit repayment.
generally will be subject to UK stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% UK resident individuals: periods from 6 April 2016 of the consideration paid for the transfer, and such stamp duty is generally payable by the transferee.
If draft legislation for the Finance Bill 2016 is enacted in its current form, the dividend tax credit will be abolished from An agreement to transfer shares, or any interest therein, 6 April 2016, to be replaced by a 5,000 annual exemption normally will give rise to a charge to stamp duty reserve tax for dividend income received by individual shareholders.
In at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration.
However, provided addition, the income tax rates on dividend income outside an instrument of transfer of the shares is executed pursuant the 5,000 annual allowance would change to 7.5% for to the agreement and duly stamped before the date on basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% for higher rate taxpayers and which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, under 38.1% for additional rate taxpayers.
the current practice of UK HM Revenue and Customs HMRC it will not be necessary to pay the stamp duty UK resident companies reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be cancelled.
Stamp Shareholders that are within the charge to UK corporation duty reserve tax is generally payable by the transferee.
tax should generally be entitled to an exemption from UK Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the UKs paperless corporation tax on any dividends received from HSBC share transfer system, are liable to stamp duty reserve tax at Holdings.
However, the exemptions are not comprehensive the rate of 0.5% of the consideration.
In CREST transactions, and are subject to anti-avoidance rules.
Shareholders the tax is calculated and payment made automatically.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 475 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Shareholder information continued Taxation of shares and dividends Deposits of shares into CREST generally will not be subject to holder generally will be subject to US taxation at preferential stamp duty reserve tax, unless the transfer into CREST is itself rates.
Based on the companys audited financial statements for consideration.
Following the case HSBC pursued before and relevant market and shareholder data, HSBC Holdings the European Court of Justice Case C-569 07 HSBC Holdings does not anticipate being classified as a passive foreign plc and Vidacos Nominees Ltd v The Commissioners for HM investment company.
Accordingly, dividends paid on the Revenue & Customs and a subsequent case in relation to shares or ADSs generally should be treated as qualified depositary receipts, HMRC now accepts that the charge to dividends.
stamp duty reserve tax at 1.5% on the issue of shares to a Taxation of capital gains depositary receipt issuer or a clearance service is prohibited.
Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other disposition Taxation US residents of shares or ADSs normally will not be subject to UK taxation unless at the time of the sale or other disposition the holder The following is a summary, under current law, of the carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a principal UK tax and US federal income tax considerations branch or agency or permanent establishment and the that are likely to be material to the ownership and shares or ADSs are or have been used, held or acquired for disposition of shares or American Depositary Shares ADSs the purposes of such trade, profession, vocation, branch or by a holder that is a resident of the US for US federal income agency or permanent establishment.
Such gains will be tax purposes a US holder and who is not resident in the included in income for US tax purposes, and will be longUK for UK tax purposes.
term capital gains if the shares or ADSs were held for more The summary does not purport to be a comprehensive than one year.
A long-term capital gain realised by an description of all of the tax considerations that may be individual US holder generally will be subject to US tax at relevant to a holder of shares or ADSs.
In particular, the preferential rates.
summary deals only with US holders that hold shares or ADSs as capital assets, and does not address the tax treatment of Inheritance tax holders that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose domicile is tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, dealers in determined to be the US for the purposes of the United securities or currencies, persons that hold shares or ADSs as States-United Kingdom Double Taxation Convention relating part of an integrated investment including a straddle to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax Treaty and who is comprised of a share or ADS and one or more other not for such purposes a national of the UK will not, provided positions, and persons that own, directly or indirectly, 10% or any US federal estate or gift tax chargeable has been paid, be more of the voting stock of HSBC Holdings.
This discussion subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death or on is based on laws, treaties, judicial decisions and regulatory a lifetime transfer of shares or ADSs except in certain cases interpretations in effect on the date hereof, all of which are where the shares or ADSs i are comprised in a settlement subject to change.
unless, at the time of the settlement, the settlor was Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own domiciled in the US and was not a national of the UK, advisers regarding the tax consequences of an investment in ii are part of the business property of a UK permanent shares or ADSs in light of their particular circumstances, establishment of an enterprise, or iii pertain to a UK including the effect of any national, state or local laws.
fixed base of an individual used for the performance of independent personal services.
In such cases, the Estate Tax Any US federal tax advice included in this Annual Report and Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal tax Accounts 2015 is for informational purposes only: it was not liability for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the where the shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance purpose of avoiding US federal tax penalties.
tax and to US federal estate or gift tax.
Taxation of dividends Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax ADSs Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by HSBC If shares are transferred to a clearance service or American Holdings.
For US tax purposes, a US holder must include cash Depositary Receipt ADR issuer which will include a dividends paid on the shares or ADSs in ordinary income on transfer of shares to the Depositary under the current the date that such holder or the ADS depositary receives HMRC practice UK stamp duty and or stamp duty reserve tax them, translating dividends paid in UK pounds sterling into will be payable.
The stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax US dollars using the exchange rate in effect on the date of is generally payable on the consideration for the transfer and receipt.
A US holder that elects to receive shares in lieu of is payable at the aggregate rate of 1.5%.
a cash dividend must include in ordinary income the fair market value of such shares on the dividend payment date, The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on such and the tax basis of those shares will equal such fair market a transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty paid in value.
connection with the same transfer.
Subject to certain exceptions for positions that are held for No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of, or less than 61 days or are hedged, and subject to a foreign agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that the ADR and corporation being considered a qualified foreign corporation any separate instrument of transfer or written agreement to which includes not being classified for US federal income tax transfer remain at all times outside the UK, and provided purposes as a passive foreign investment company, certain further that any such transfer or written agreement to dividends qualified dividends received by an individual US transfer is not executed in the UK.
No stamp duty reserve HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 476 tax will be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR.
US backup withholding tax and information reporting Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds from the sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within the US, or through certain financial intermediaries to US holders, are subject to information reporting and may be subject to a US backup withholding tax unless, in general, the US holder complies with certain certification procedures or is a corporation or other person exempt from such withholding.
Holders that are not US persons generally are not subject to information reporting or backup withholding tax, but may be required to comply with applicable certification procedures to establish that they are not US persons in order to avoid the application of such information reporting requirements or backup withholding tax to payments received within the US or through certain financial intermediaries.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 477 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
