SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION RECEIVING SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS ADRs BY EMAIL The company has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary You can opt to receive shareholder information from us by Receipt ADR programme, with Citibank N. A. acting as the email rather than by post.
We will then email you whenever we depositary bank, which enables US investors to invest in IG add shareholder communications to the Company website.
shares though an ADR, denominated in US dollars.
IGs ADR To set this up, please visit investorcentre.
co. uk ecomms and programme trades in the US over-the-counter OTC market, register for electronic communications e-comms.
Each ADR currently represents one ordinary share.
If you subsequently wish to change this instruction or revert to receiving documents or information by post, you can do so E: citiadr@citi.
com dr by contacting the Companys registrars at the address shown T: UK 44 20 7508 2708 US 1 212 723 5435 in the Company Information opposite.
You can also change 1 DIVIDEND DATES your communication method back to post by logging in to Ex-dividend date 01 October 2015 your Investor Centre account and go to update my details Record date 02 October 2015 followed by communication options.
Last day to elect for The Registrar can also be contacted by telephone on dividend reinvestment plan 09 October 2015 03714952032.
Calls to this number cost no more than a Annual General Meeting 15 October 2015 national rate from any type of phone or provider.
These prices are for indication purposes only: if in doubt, please check the Final dividend payment date 30 October 2015 cost of calling this number with your phone line provider.
Lines 2016 interim dividend February 2016 are open 8.30am 5.30pm, Mon-Fri excluding bank holidays.
1 ANNUAL SHAREHOLDER CALENDAR SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES Company reporting If you have any queries relating to your shareholding, Final results announced 21 July 2015 dividend payments or lost share certificates, or if any of your Annual Report published 15 September 2015 details change, please contact Computershare by visiting investorcentre.
co. uk or by using the contact details above.
Annual General Meeting 15 October 2015 INTERIM REPORT As part of our e-comms programme, we have decided not to produce a printed copy of our Interim Report.
We will instead publish the report on our website, where it will be available around mid-January each year.
1 Please note that these dates are provisional and subject to change.
| 190 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT MARKET SHARE Certain statements included in our 2015 Annual Report, or Market share data has been provided by Investment Trends incorporated by reference to it, may constitute forwardPty Limited website: investmenttrends.
looking statements in respect of the Groups operations, Contact: Pawel Rokicki email: pawel@investmenttrends.
performance, prospects and or financial condition.
Unless stated, market share data is sourced from the following current reports: By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve uncertainties because they relate to events, and depend Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report on circumstances, that will or may occur in the future.
If released October 2014 the assumptions on which the Group bases its forwardInvestment Trends Australia CFD Report looking statements change, actual results may differ from released September 2014 those expressed in such statements.
The forward-looking Investment Trends Singapore CFD and FX Report statements contained herein reflect knowledge and released November 2014 information available at the date of this Annual Report Investment Trends Germany CFD and FX Report and the Group undertakes no obligation to update these released June 2015 forward-looking statements except as required by law.
Investment Trends France CFD and FX Report This report does not constitute or form part of any offer or released July 2015 invitation to sell, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase any shares or other securities in the Company and nothing in this report should be construed as a profit forecast.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 191
