100 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation The Consolidated Group and Parent Company Financial Statements of International Personal Finance plc and its subsidiaries IPF or the Group have been prepared in accordance with European Union endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The following amendment to standards is mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2015 but does not have any impact on the Group: IFRS 10 amendment Consolidated financial statements.
The following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group: IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
This standard replaces IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and will affect the Groups accounting for its financial assets.
The mandatory implementation date for this standard is 1 January 2018 however it has not yet been endorsed by the European Union.
The Group is in the process of assessing IFRS 9s full impact: Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture: IFRS 11 amendment Accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations: IFRS 14 Regulatory deferral accounts: IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers: Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation: Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: bearer plants: IAS 27 Equity method in separate Financial Statements: Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2012-2014 cycle: Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses: IFRS 16 Leases: and Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure initiative.
Accounting convention The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments at fair value.
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently, are set out in the following paragraphs.
Going concern The directors have, at the time of approving the Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in the Financial Statements.
Further detail is contained in the Financial Review on page 37.
Consolidation These Consolidated Financial Statements include the financial results of all companies which are controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
All companies are 100% owned by IPF Group companies.
A list of all subsidiaries in the Group is included in note 13.
Financial Statements Financial Statements International Personal Finance plc 100 ACCOUNTING POLICIES 101 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Basis of preparation Finance costs The Consolidated Group and Parent Company Financial Statements of International Personal Finance plc and its subsidiaries Finance costs comprise the interest on external borrowings which are recognised on an effective interest rate EIR basis, and gains or losses IPF or the Group have been prepared in accordance with European Union endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, on derivative contracts taken to the income statement.
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Segment reporting The Groups operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The following amendment to standards is mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2015 but does not have any The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of operating segments, has been impact on the Group: identified as the Board.
This information is by business line Home Credit and Digital: and by geographic region within the Home Credit business.
IFRS 10 amendment Consolidated financial statements.
A business line is a component of the Group that operates within a particular economic environment and that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of components operating in other economic environments.
The following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group: Revenue IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
IFRS 9 introduces new Revenue, which excludes value added tax and intra-Group transactions, comprises revenue earned on amounts receivable from customers.
requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and will affect the Groups accounting for its financial assets.
The mandatory Revenue on customer receivables is calculated using an EIR.
The EIR is calculated using estimated cash flows, being contractual payments implementation date for this standard is 1 January 2018 however it has not yet been endorsed by the European Union.
The Group is in adjusted for the impact of customers paying early but excluding the anticipated impact of customers paying late or not paying at all.
the process of assessing IFRS 9s full impact: Directly attributable issue costs are also taken into account in calculating the EIR.
Interest income continues to be accrued on impaired Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture: receivables using the original EIR applied to the loans carrying value.
IFRS 11 amendment Accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations: Commissions in respect of insurance products intermediated by the Group are recognised when the underlying insurance goes on-risk if no further service obligations are identified.
Insurance premiums payable by the customer are capitalised as part of the customer loan receivable IFRS 14 Regulatory deferral accounts: and accounted for on an amortised cost basis.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers: The accounting for amounts receivable from customers is considered further below.
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation: Leases Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: bearer plants: The leases entered into by the Group are solely operating leases.
Costs in respect of operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
IAS 27 Equity method in separate Financial Statements: Leases are classified as operating leases whenever the terms of the lease do not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2012-2014 cycle: to the Group.
Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses: Other operating costs IFRS 16 Leases: and Other operating costs include agents commission, marketing costs and foreign exchange gains and losses.
All other costs are included in administrative expenses.
Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure initiative.
Share-based payments Accounting convention The cost of providing share-based payments to employees is charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the award.
The The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation corresponding credit is made to retained earnings.
The cost is based on the fair value of awards granted, which is determined using both of derivative financial instruments at fair value.
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently, are set out a Monte Carlo simulation and Black-Scholes option pricing model.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of Going concern non market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the income statement such The directors have, at the time of approving the Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in In the Parent Company Financial Statements, in accordance with IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions, the fair value the Financial Statements.
Further detail is contained in the Financial Review on page 37. of providing share-based payments to employees of subsidiary companies is treated as an increase in the investment in subsidiaries.
Consolidation Exceptional items These Consolidated Financial Statements include the financial results of all companies which are controlled by the Group.
Control exists where The Group classifies as exceptional those significant items that are one-off in nature and do not reflect the underlying performance of the Group.
the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
102 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Financial instruments Amounts receivable from customers All customer receivables are recognised initially at the amount loaned to the customer plus directly attributable incremental issue costs.
After initial recognition, customer receivables are measured subsequently at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is the amount of the customer receivable at initial recognition less customer repayments, plus revenue earned calculated using the EIR, less any deduction for impairment.
Customer receivables are classified as loans and receivables in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
In Home Credit customer receivables are assessed for impairment each week.
Customer accounts that are in arrears are deemed to have demonstrated evidence of impairment and are subject to an impairment review.
Impairment is calculated using actuarial models which use historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount and timing of future cash flows from each arrears stage.
These estimated future cash flows are discounted to a present value using the original EIR and this figure is compared with the balance sheet value.
In IPF Digital receivables are assessed for impairment on a monthly basis to reflect the repayment frequency.
Evidence of impairment is deemed to have been demonstrated when accounts are passed to an external debt collection agency although an incurred but not reported provision is created before this based on probability of default and loss given default factors.
Impairment provisions reflect the amount and timing of cash flows through loss given default factors.
Impairment charges in respect of customer receivables are charged to the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand.
Cash also includes those balances held by agents for operational purposes.
Bank overdrafts are presented in current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward currency contracts, to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Groups underlying business operations.
No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken.
All derivative financial instruments are assessed against the hedge accounting criteria set out in IAS 39.
The majority of the Groups derivatives are cash flow hedges of highly probable forecast transactions and meet the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39.
Derivatives are recognised initially at the fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are remeasured subsequently at each reporting date at their fair value.
Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, movements in their fair value are recognised immediately within the income statement.
For derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges and where the hedge accounting criteria are met, the effective portion of changes in the fair value is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement as part of finance costs.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recognised in the income statement when the income or expense on the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
The Group discontinues hedge accounting when: it is evident from testing that a derivative is not, or has ceased to be, highly effective as a hedge: the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised: or the underlying hedged item matures or is sold or repaid.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being their issue proceeds net of any transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are stated subsequently at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the expected life of the borrowings using the EIR.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
Financial Statements Financial Statements International Personal Finance plc 102 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 103 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Financial instruments Goodwill Amounts receivable from customers Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired All customer receivables are recognised initially at the amount loaned to the customer plus directly attributable incremental issue costs.
After subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
initial recognition, customer receivables are measured subsequently at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is the amount of the customer receivable Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is at initial recognition less customer repayments, plus revenue earned calculated using the EIR, less any deduction for impairment.
Customer held in the currency of the acquired entity and revalued to the closing rate at each end of reporting period date.
receivables are classified as loans and receivables in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Subsequent reversals In Home Credit customer receivables are assessed for impairment each week.
Customer accounts that are in arrears are deemed to have of impairment losses for goodwill are not recognised.
demonstrated evidence of impairment and are subject to an impairment review.
These estimated Intangible assets future cash flows are discounted to a present value using the original EIR and this figure is compared with the balance sheet value.
Intangible assets comprise computer software and customer relationships acquired on the acquisition of MCB Finance.
Computer software is In IPF Digital receivables are assessed for impairment on a monthly basis to reflect the repayment frequency.
Evidence of impairment is deemed capitalised as an intangible asset on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire or develop the specific software and bring it into use.
Customer to have been demonstrated when accounts are passed to an external debt collection agency although an incurred but not reported provision relationships are stated at fair value less accumulated amortisation.
is created before this based on probability of default and loss given default factors.
Impairment provisions reflect the amount and timing of cash Intangible assets are amortised within administrative expenses on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives which are flows through loss given default factors.
generally estimated to be five years.
The residual values and economic lives are reviewed by management at each balance sheet date.
Investments in subsidiaries Cash and cash equivalents Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, where cost is equal to the fair value of the consideration used to acquire the asset.
Investments are Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand.
tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment Bank overdrafts are presented in current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances.
loss is recognised for the amount by which the investment carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets value in use or its fair value less costs to sell.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward currency contracts, to manage the Property, plant and equipment interest rate and currency risks arising from the Groups underlying business operations.
Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less subsequent depreciation and impairment.
Cost represents invoiced cost plus any other costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Repair and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Derivatives are Depreciation is calculated to write down assets to their estimated realisable value over their useful economic lives.
The following are the principal recognised initially at the fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are remeasured subsequently at each reporting date bases used: at their fair value.
Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, movements in their fair value are recognised immediately within the Category Depreciation rate Method income statement.
Fixtures and fittings 10% Straight-line For derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges and where the hedge accounting criteria are met, the effective portion of changes in Equipment including computer hardware 20% to 33.3% Straight-line the fair value is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Motor vehicles 25% Reducing balance income statement as part of finance costs.
The residual value and useful economic life of all assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
All items of The Group discontinues hedge accounting when: property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised through the income statement for the amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds it is evident from testing that a derivative is not, or has ceased to be, highly effective as a hedge: the higher of the assets value in use or its fair value less costs to sell.
the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised: or Share capital the underlying hedged item matures or is sold or repaid.
IPF plc has only ordinary share capital.
These shares, with a nominal value of 10 pence per share, are classified as equity.
Borrowings Shares held in treasury and by employee trust Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being their issue proceeds net of any transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are stated The net amount paid to acquire shares is held in a separate reserve and shown as a reduction in equity.
subsequently at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the expected life of the borrowings using the EIR.
104 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Foreign currency translation Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates the functional currency.
The Groups financial information is presented in sterling.
Transactions that are not denominated in a subsidiarys functional currency are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Differences arising on translation are charged or credited to the income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
The income statements of the Groups subsidiaries none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional currency different from sterling are translated into sterling at the average exchange rate and the balance sheets are translated at the exchange rates ruling at each balance sheet date.
Upon consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to other comprehensive income.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of current and deferred tax.
Current tax is calculated based on taxable profit for the year using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Employee benefits Defined benefit pension scheme The charge or credit in the income statement in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme comprises the actuarially assessed current service cost of working employees together with the interest charge on pension liabilities offset by the expected return on pension scheme assets.
All charges or credits are allocated to administrative expenses.
The asset or obligation recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme is the fair value of the schemes assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement unless the changes to the pension scheme are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The Parent Company share of the defined benefit retirement obligation is based on the proportion of total Group contributions made by the Parent Company.
Defined contribution schemes Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement on an accruals basis.
Financial Statements Financial Statements International Personal Finance plc 104 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 105 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Foreign currency translation Key assumptions and estimates Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic In applying the accounting policies set out above, the Group makes significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts environment in which the subsidiary operates the functional currency.
of assets and liabilities as follows: Transactions that are not denominated in a subsidiarys functional currency are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of Revenue recognition the transaction.
The judgement in respect of revenue recognition is the methodology used to calculate the EIR.
In order to determine the EIR applicable to loans an estimate must be made of the expected life of each loan and hence the cash flows relating thereto.
These estimates are based on historical Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the rates of exchange data and are reviewed regularly.
ruling at the balance sheet date.
Amounts receivable from customers The Group reviews its portfolio of customer loans and receivables for impairment on a weekly or monthly basis.
The Group makes judgements The income statements of the Groups subsidiaries none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional to determine whether there is objective evidence which indicates that there has been an adverse effect on expected future cash flows.
currency different from sterling are translated into sterling at the average exchange rate and the balance sheets are translated at the exchange rates ruling at each balance sheet date.
In home credit, for the purposes of assessing the impairment of customer loans and receivables, customers are categorised into arrears stages as this is considered to be the most reliable predictor of future payment performance.
The level of impairment is calculated using actuarial Upon consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries, and of borrowings and other models which use historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount and timing of future cash flows from each arrears stage currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to other comprehensive income.
In Digital, the impairment trigger occurs when customers are passed to collections, which averages at 40 days past due.
Current tax is calculated based on taxable profit for the year using tax rates The impairment models are reviewed regularly to take account of the current economic environment and recent customer payment that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the performance.
However, on the basis that the payment performance of customers could be different from the assumptions used in estimating income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items future cash flows, an adjustment to the carrying value of amounts receivable from customers may be required.
To the extent that the net present that are never taxable or deductible.
value of estimated cash flows differs by 5%, it is estimated that amounts receivable from customers would be 40.1 million higher lower 2014: 38.0 million.
IAS 39 requires that all of the cash flows directly associated with financial instruments held at amortised cost must be recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
When this approach is applied to a customer loan portfolio, judgements must be made to Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the estimate the average life of that portfolio.
These judgements are applied, taking into account factors including the terms of the particular Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance products and historical repayment data.
These estimates are considered and updated as required in each reporting period to reflect the sheet liability method.
customer loan portfolios expected performance.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary Legislative changes in Slovakia have caused the Group to stop new lending in this market and collect-out its receivables portfolio.
The Group difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the future.
has made specific judgements on the impact that this change will have on the collections from the existing receivables portfolio.
To the extent Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary that the net present value of these cash flows differs by - 5% it is estimated that amounts receivable from customers would be 1.2 million differences can be utilised.
Tax Employee benefits The Group is subject to tax in a number of international jurisdictions as well as the UK.
In some cases, due to the unusual features of home credit, Defined benefit pension scheme the tax treatment of certain items cannot be determined with certainty until the operation has been subject to a tax audit.
In some instances, The charge or credit in the income statement in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme comprises the actuarially assessed current this can be a number of years after the item has first been reflected in the Financial Statements.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated service cost of working employees together with the interest charge on pension liabilities offset by the expected return on pension scheme assets.
tax audit and enquiry issues based on an assessment of whether it is probable that a liability will crystallise.
If the outcome of such audits is that All charges or credits are allocated to administrative expenses.
the final liability is different to the amount estimated originally, such differences will be recognised in the period in which the audit or enquiry is The asset or obligation recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme is the fair value of the schemes assets determined.
Any differences may necessitate a material adjustment to the level of tax balances held in the balance sheet.
less the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
