Strategic Report Strategic Report 2015 Financial and Operating Review Key Performance Indicators The Key Objectives of the Company are set out below and Indicators KPIs.
The KPIs and the relative performance ten priorities have been identified to assist in meeting these.
for the 2015 financial year are summarised below and further In order to assess annual performance in meeting these details of each of these elements are provided in the sections objectives the Company reviews semi-annually its that follow: performance against the following key performance Key Objectives Investor Returns Key Objectives Key Performance Indicator 2015 Performance Page Reference 18 Deliver sustainable long-term returns to shareholders - Maintain and enhance - Focus on providing shareholders - Achieved targeted fully covered cash distributions to shareholders with predictable, and where dividend of 6.45 pence share, a possible growing dividends c. 2.5% increase on 2014 dividend - Deliver capital value - Total shareholder return - Achieved.
The total shareholder return enhancement where possible since IPO is 115.0%, or 8.7% on an - NAV and NAV pence share annualised basis - NAV of 1,290.2 million and NAV per share of 130.2 pence an increase of 2.52% Strategic Priorities 1.
Active Asset Management Strategic Priorities Key Performance Indicator 2015 Performance Page Reference 25 1 Focus on delivery of anticipated returns from existing investments - Availability for all controlled - Achieved - Actively manage investments at 98% or investments to ensure that above - Met 2015 net revenue generation and they meet financial and - Returns from investments in dividend goals other targets line with expectations - Achieved 2 Maintain high levels of public - Performance deductions sector satisfaction and asset below 3% for all projects performance - Around 950 variation requests 3 Deliver additional value from - Number of change requests processed representing c. 10 million existing assets through from existing contracts management of construction of the additional works at the project risk and delivery of operational level improvements to meet client requirements - Works commenced on new - Management of investments construction projects in line with in the course of construction project timetables projects in line with overall delivery timetable International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 16 Strategic Report Strategic Report 2015 Financial and Operating Review continued 2.
Value-focused Portfolio Development Strategic Priorities Key Performance Indicator 2015 Performance Page Reference - Increased stake in Liverpool Library 28 4 Through relationships with co- - Value enhancing follow-on project to 100% shareholders and pre-emptive investments rights, where applicable, increase individual investment - Increased stake in Lewisham Building holdings to 100% where Schools for the Future project up to beneficial 50% - All investments in the year were 5 Make additional acquisitions - Value of additional acquired outside secondary market where they can be acquired on investments acquired offor off-market at prospective auction processes market returns that are beneficial in risk return terms - Investment into six projects in 6 Enhance prospects for capital - Number of investments in construction phase during the period growth by investing in construction construction phase assets representing 8% of NAV where available - Investment into regulated water 7 Identify complementary - Value of investments in investment, Thames Tideway Tunnel investment sectors within the complementary investment Companys investment policy sectors offering better returns with a similar risk profile - During the year, 31.7 million was 8 Take advantage of - Number of new opportunities invested in a US Military housing infrastructure opportunities in international markets internationally where project investments have an appropriate risk profile and - 17.5 million was committed to an contractual structures are investment in Australia reliably enforceable to enhance diversification - Investments during the year, notably 9 Undertake continuing review of - Improvement of risk return, Tideway, significantly enhanced the portfolio composition to ensure inflation linkage, return, suitable blend of risk return, average duration of the portfolio from diversification characteristics inflation linkage, yield versus 21 years to over 27.
Once fully capital characteristics, level of invested the portfolio duration will be diversification and opportunistic c. 40 years.
Efficient Financial Management Strategic Priorities Key Performance Indicator 2015 Performance Page Reference - Dividends paid to investors 1.2 times 10 Provide efficient management - Dividends paid to investors 30 1 covered by net operating cash flow of cash holdings and debt covered by operating cash facilities available for flow investment and appropriate hedging policies - New investments made from - All investments in the period funded 2 available cash after payment through excess cash before utilising of dividend in priority to use the corporate debt facility of corporate debt - Benchmarked market cash rates and - Competitive cash deposit re-allocated based on risk return rates profile where possible - Use of appropriate hedging - 1.7 million of foreign exchange strategies forward contracts in place at the balance sheet date to mitigate shortterm foreign exchange cash flow volatility 1 Cash dividends to shareholders are paid from net operating cash flow including financing costs before non-recurring operating costs.
2 Residual cash after payment of dividend and corporate costs over the next twelve months.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 17 Strategic Report Strategic Report 2015 Financial and Operating Review continued Performance against key objectives during the year Investor Returns Profits and Distributions Profit before tax was 79.9 million 2014: 71.2 million with earnings per share of 9.54 pence 2014: 9.49 pence.
Returns from portfolio investments investment income in the year were 100.2 million 2014: 90.1 million including fair value movements, dividends and interest.
These returns were partially offset by operating expenses including finance costs of 21.6 million 2014: 18.3 million.
These results allowed the Company to deliver a dividend of 6.45 pence per share for the year 2014: 6.30 pence per share.
Total Shareholder Return The Companys Total Shareholder Return share price growth plus reinvested distributions for investors since the initial public offer of the Company in November 2006 to 31 December 2015 has been 115.0%, compared to a total return on the FTSE All-Share index 1 over the same period of 49.2% or 8.7% and 4.5% respectively on an annualised basis.
The Company has exhibited relatively low levels of volatility compared to the market, as evidenced by the graph below which shows the Companys share price since IPO against the price performance of the major FTSE indices and the Companys NAV.
INPP Share Price Performance 1 Net Asset Valuation The Company reported a 21.5% increase in NAV, up to 1,290.2 million at 31 December 2015 from 1,062.1 million at 31 December 2014.
This represented an increase of 2.5% of NAV per share, increasing to 130.2 pence per share at 31 December 2015 from 127.0 pence per share at 31 December 2014.
The build-up of NAV is derived from a discounted cash flow calculation to determine the fair value of investments plus the value of cash and other net assets held within the Companys consolidated group.
The key drivers of the change to the NAV between 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015 are highlighted in the graph that follows and described in more detail below.
1 Bloomberg share price appreciation plus income.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 18 Strategic Report Strategic Report 2015 Financial and Operating Review continued Net Asset Value Movement m 1 Represents movements in the forward foreign exchange curves used to forecast future international project distributions.
2 The NAV Return represents, amongst other things, i variances in both realised and forecast project cash flows, ii the unwinding of the discount factor applied to those future project cash flows and iii changes in the Companys other net assets see also more detail below.
During the period a total of 198 million of new capital was raised before costs from a tap issue and via a Placing, Open Offer and Offer for Subscription.
Proceeds were utilised to repay the drawn balance of the corporate debt facility and acquire new investments.
For the twelve months to 31 December 2015, government bond yields decreased in all countries the Company holds investments in, resulting in a positive impact on the NAV.
This was partly offset by an increase in the project premium reflecting observable market based evidence which does not support the full reduction in government bond yields.
The portfolio also benefited from a reduction in discount rate risk premia as assets moved out of the construction or defects liability phase and towards full operations.
Sterling strengthened against the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar and the Euro over the year to 31 December 2015 and this had a negative impact on the NAV.
The most significant foreign exchange impact was seen in the valuation of the Companys Euro denominated investments.
Cash distributions reached 48.6 million during the year and represent the cash elements of two dividends made to INPP shareholders.
The NAV Return of 77.1 million, representing a return of 6.4%, captures the following: - Unwinding of the discount factor the movement of the valuation date and the receipt of forecast distributions - Optimisation of cash flows actual distributions received above the forecast amount due to active management of the Companys portfolio, including negotiating and optimising project cash flows to ensure cash can be extracted from the underlying investments earlier than forecast and optimising Group tax losses - Movements in the Companys working capital position - Updated project forecasts refinement of project model and macroeconomic assumptions to reflect current expectations of future cash flows Investment Valuation Forecast future cash flows The Companys investments are expected to exhibit and historically have exhibited predictable cash flows.
As the Company has a large degree of visibility over expected income from its current investments the chart below sets out the Companys expectation for the evolution of investment receipts from its current portfolio over the remaining life of current investments.
The majority of the receipts over the life of the concessions are investment income in the form of dividends or interest and principal payments from senior and subordinated debt investments.
The Company generally invests in infrastructure entities with finite lives determined by concession or licence terms.
As the remaining life of each of the Companys investments reduces, the Companys receipts in respect of that investment will represent return of capital as well as income.
The line in the chart below illustrates how, in the event that the Company never acquires any additional assets, nor raises any additional capital and other things being equal, the NAV of the Company would reduce to zero over time.
Equally however, any future acquisitions or disposals or changes to the projected cash flows of any investment or the assumptions upon which they are based will change this projection from time to time although it can be expected to retain the same general amortising profile.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 19 Strategic Report Strategic Report 2015 Financial and Operating Review continued INPP Projected Cash Flow Profile Note: There are many factors that may influence the actual achievement of long-term cash flows to the Company.
These include both internal as well as external factors and investors should not treat the chart above as being more than an indicative profile and not a projection, estimate or profit forecast.
The actual achieved profile will almost certainly be different and may be higher or lower than indicated.
Portfolio Performance and Return The Companys investment portfolio is reviewed semi-annually by the Investment Adviser, and presented for approval by the Directors.
The Directors valuation of the portfolio, Investments at Fair Value, as at 31 December 2015 was 1,201.1, an increase of 16.3% since 31 December 2014.
Investments at Fair Value Movements m 1 The Portfolio Return represents, amongst other things i variations in forecast project cash flows ii the unwinding of the discount factor applied to those future project cash flows and iii any disributions received during the period.
The portfolio return of 101.5 million represents a 9.2% increase in the rebased value of investments and can be attributed to: - Distributions received over and above the forecast amount due to active management of the Companys portfolio including initiatives such as negotiating and optimising project cash flows to ensure cash can be extracted from project vehicles earlier than forecast and utilisation of group tax loss relief - Unwinding of the discount factor whereby the movement of the valuation date has a positive impact on the Investments at Fair Value - Uplift from a revaluation of existing investments to reflect current market pricing, notably the Angel Trains investment where a significant uplift in valuation occurred during the period as stakes in the company were sold by other shareholders and this market-based evidence was incorporated within the portfolio valuation - Updating and refinement of project model assumptions to reflect current expectations of future cash flows - Increase in forecast tax outflows in light of potential legislative changes to international tax In addition there was: - A net decrease in discount rates across jurisdictions in which the Company invests leading to a 17.7 million increase in portfolio value - A net decrease of 2.4 million which reflects the changes made to the macroeconomic assumptions - A net decrease in the portfolio valuation due to foreign exchange rate movements in all four currencies the Company has exposure to The remaining movements relate to investments of 143.1 million and project distributions of 76.0 million.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 20 Strategic Report Strategic Report 2015 Financial and Operating Review continued Macroeconomic assumptions The Company reviews the macroeconomic assumptions underlying its forecasts on a regular basis and, following a thorough market assessment during the period, certain adjustments have been made to some of the assumptions used to derive the Companys portfolio valuation.
The key assumptions used as the basis for deriving the Companys portfolio valuation are summarised in the following table with further details provided in note 12.
Across the portfolio the weighted average long-term inflation assumption as at 31 December 2015 was 2.57% 2014: 2.55% and the weighted average deposit rate assumption was 3.11% 2014: 3.47%.
The Net Asset Valuation Section above provides further details on the impact of these assumptions on the valuation during the period.
Variable Basis 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Inflation UK 2.75% 2.75% Australia 2.50% 2.50% Europe 1.0% in 2016, then 2.00% 2.00% Canada 2.00% 2.00% 2 US 2.00% N A 1 Longterm Deposit Rates UK 3.00% 3.50% Australia 4.50% 4.50% Europe 3.00% 3.00% Canada 3.00% 3.00% 2 US 3.00% N A Foreign Exchange GBP AUD 2.13 2.03 GBP CAD 2.02 1.84 GBP EUR 1.28 1.23 2 GBP USD 1.49 N A 3 Tax Rate UK 20%-18% 20% Australia 30% 30% Europe Various no change Various no change Canada Various 26%-27% Various no change 2 US Various N A 1 The portfolio valuation assumes actual current deposit rates are maintained until 31 December 2018 before adjusting to the long-term rates noted in the table above.
2 The Company made its first US denominated investment in during 2015.
It had no USD exposure prior to this time.
3 The reduction in UK tax rates reflects the latest substantively enacted rates at 31 December 2015 and therefore captures the reduction to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 18% from 1 April 2020.
Discount rates The discount rate used for valuing each investment is based on the appropriate long-term government bond yield plus a risk premium.
The risk premium takes into account risks and opportunities associated with each project including location, phase of operation construction etc.
The majority of the Companys portfolio 84% is comprised of investments where the Company only holds the Risk Capital in the underlying projects.
The remaining portfolio 16% is comprised of investments where the Company holds both the Risk Capital and the senior debt.
In order to provide investors with a greater level of transparency, the Company publishes both a Risk Capital weighted average discount rate and a portfolio weighted average discount rate across all investments including senior debt interests.
The current discount rates used by the Company are provided in the table below.
These rates need to be considered against the assumptions and projections upon which the Companys anticipated cash flows are based.
If the Companys average discount rates are to be compared with those of similar companies, this needs to be done rigorously.
In the Companys view comparisons of average discount rates between competitor investment portfolios or funds is only meaningful if there is a comparable level of confidence in the quality of forecast cash flows and assumptions the rates are applied to: the risk and return characteristics of different investment portfolios are understood: and the depth and quality of asset management employed to manage risk and deliver expected returns are identical across the compared portfolios.
As such assumptions are unlikely to be homogenous, andfocus on average discount rates without an assessment of these and other factors could be misleading.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 21 Strategic Report Strategic Report 2015 Financial and Operating Review continued Movement 31 December 2014 - 31 Metric 31 December 2015 30 June 2015 31 December 2014 December 2015 Weighted Average Government Bond Rate 2.31% 2.12% 2.79% 0.48% Nominal portfolio basis Risk Capital and senior debt Weighted Average Project Premium over 5.22% 5.17% 4.69% 0.53% Government Bond Rate Risk Capital and senior debt Nominal Weighted Average Discount rate 7.53% 7.29% 7.48% 0.05% - Portfolio basis Risk Capital and senior debt Weighted Average Discount rate 8.09% 7.83% 7.90% 0.19% 1 - Risk Capital only NAV per share 130.2p 128.6p 127.0p 3.2p 1 Risk Capital is equity and subordinated debt investments.
The change in the weighted average discount rate in the period is principally due to the accretive nature of the assets that were brought into the portfolio together with revaluations of certain assets.
Government bond rates In the table above the Company has provided an analysis of the weighted average government bond rate used in calculating the discount rate.
It should be noted that the nominal i. e. non inflation linked bond rate has been used in this calculation.
The Company considers, however, that investors may also find a comparison with inflation adjusted government bond rates beneficial.
This is the case due to the significant level of inflation linkage inherent in the Companys anticipated cash flows.
Real i. e. inflation adjusted bond rates are included in the table below.
Using these real rates on a weighted average basis leads to a real portfolio rate of 0.44% with the difference between the real and nominal rates reflecting in theory the implied rates of future expected inflation.
In some countries this is higher than those currently being assumed to calculate the Companys NAV.
This information is provided to enable investors to make approximate comparisons of the projected return of the Company with that available from government index linked bonds.
It should be noted that any such comparison can only be estimated due in part to the fact that the Companys cash flows are not fully linked to inflation and the Companys cash flows already assume a core level of inflation as set out in the section headed Macroeconomic assumptions on page 21.
Note estimates only for Belgium and Ireland as no index linked bonds available.
Portfolio level assumptions underlying NAV calculation The Company is aware that there are subtle differences in approach to the valuation of portfolios of investments among different infrastructure funds.
To clarify the Companys position in this regard its key cash flow inputs and broad valuation principles include that: - Key macroeconomic variables outlined in the section above continue to be applicable - The contracts under which payments are made to the Company and its subsidiaries remain on track and are not terminated before their contractual expiry date - Where deductions are suffered under such contracts they are fully passed down to subcontractors - Where possible lifecycle costs risks are not borne by the Company but are passed down to a third party such as a facilities management contractor - Cash flows from and to the Companys subsidiaries and the infrastructure asset owning entities in which it has invested will be made and are received at the times anticipated - Where assets are in construction they are either completed on time or any costs of delay are borne by the contractors not the Company - Where the operating costs of the Company or the infrastructure asset owning entities in which it has invested are fixed by contract such contracts are performed, and where such costs are not fixed, that they remain within projected budgets - Where the Company or the infrastructure asset owning entities in which it has invested owns the residual property value in an asset that the projected amount for this value is realised - Foreign exchange rates remain consistent with current four year forward looking projections - There are no regulatory changes in the future which negatively impact the cash flow forecasts International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 22 Strategic Report Strategic Report 2015 Financial and Operating Review continued Impact of Changes in Key Macroeconomic Variables to 31 December 2015 NAV 130.2p per Share Sensitivities for key macroeconomic assumptions and discount rates The Companys NAV is based on the factors outlined above.
The Company has also provided sensitivity analysis showing an indication of the impact on NAV per share from changes in macroeconomic assumptions and discount rates, as set out below.
Further details can be found in note 12.
This analysis is provided as an indication of the likely impact of these variables on the NAV per share on the basis that they apply uniformly across the portfolio whereas in practice the impact is unlikely to be uniform.
These sensitivities should be used only for general guidance and not as accurate predictors of outcomes.
Discount rates The Companys approach to determining the discount rate is described in detail above.
Assuming all other things are equal, a reduction of 1% per annum to the underlying project discount rates would increase the 31 December 2015 NAV per share by 14.7 pence.
Should the underlying project discount rates increase by 1% per annum the NAV per share would decrease by 12.4 pence.
Inflation In an environment where investors are increasingly focused on achieving long-term real rates of return on their investments, inflation protection is an important consideration for the Company.
At 31 December 2015 the majority of assets in the portfolio had some degree of inflation linkage and, in aggregate, the weighted return of the portfolio would be expected to increase by 1% per annum in response to a 0.76% per annum inflation increase across the whole portfolio over the currently assumed rates.
Where actual inflation is higher or lower than the assumed levels, it can be expected to impact on the Companys actual future cash flow in a correspondingly positive or negative manner other things being equal.
If the underlying project inflation rates were to increase by 1% per annum evenly across the portfolio there would be a 10.7 pence increase to the NAV per share.
Conversely, if the rates were to decrease by 1% per annum there would be a 9.5 pence decrease to the NAV per share.
Forecasting the impact of possible future inflation deflation on projected returns and NAV in isolation cannot be relied on as an accurate guide to the future performance of the Company as actual inflation is unlikely to follow any of these scenarios exactly and in any case, many other factors and variables will combine to determine what actual future returns are available.
The analysis provided above should therefore be treated as being indicative only and not as providing any form of profit or dividend forecast.
Foreign exchange The Company has a geographically diverse portfolio and therefore revenues are subject to foreign exchange rate risk.
Should the assumed exchange rates increase by 10% per annum this could be anticipated to lead to a 4.0 pence increase in the NAV per share while a 10% per annum reduction in the exchange rates would result in a 3.3 pence decrease in NAV per share.
Short-term fluctuation in foreign exchange rates are managed through currency forward contracts.
Deposit rates The long-term weighted average deposit rate assumption across the portfolio is 3.11% per annum.
While operating cash balances tend to be low given the structured nature of the investments, project finance structures typically include reserve accounts to mitigate certain costs and therefore variations to deposit rates may impact the portfolio.
All else being equal, a 1% per annum increase in the underlying deposit rates could be anticipated to lead to a 1.3 pence increase in the NAV per share and a 1% per annum decrease in deposit rate to a 1.4 pence reduction in the NAV per share.
Tax rates The Company has a geographically diverse portfolio and therefore post-tax investment cash inflows are impacted by tax rates across all relevant jurisdictions.
Should the assumed tax rates increase by 1% per annum this could be anticipated to lead to a 0.8 pence decrease in the NAV per share while a 1% per annum reduction in the tax rates could be anticipated to lead to a 0.8 pence increase in NAV per share.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 23 Strategic Report Strategic Report 2015 Financial and Operating Review continued Project Lifecycle Spend Over a projects lifecycle there is a process of renewal required to keep the physical asset fit for use and at the standard required of it under the agreement with the occupying public sector body.
The proportion of total cost that is lifecycle spend will depend on the nature of the asset.
In order to enhance the certainty around cash flows, around 93.5% of the Companys assets by value are structured such that lifecycle cost risk is taken by a subcontractor for a fixed price isolating equity investors from such downside risk.
As a result, the impact of any changes to the Companys lifecycle cost profile is relatively small.
A 10% increase in lifecycle costs would lead to a 0.5 pence reduction in NAV per share.
A 10% decrease in lifecycle costs would lead to a 0.5 pence increase in NAV per share.
Future group tax relief Under UK group tax loss relief rules, losses within the UK group companies can be, subject to UK tax law, offset against taxable profits in other UK group companies including controlled project entities.
This group tax loss relief can reduce the overall tax charge across the portfolio and potentially reduce taxable profits substantially below the levels currently modelled by the Company.
The Company has taken a conservative approach to the valuation of future tax losses and, to date, has not incorporated these into the NAV.
Cash flow movements in the period Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Summary of consolidated cash flow million million Opening cash balance 29.4 80.6 Cash from investments 76.0 64.0 Operating costs recurring 13.7 12.2 Net financing costs 3.5 1.9 Net cash before non-recurring operating costs 58.8 49.9 Non-recurring operating costs 2.8 5.0 Net cash flow from operations 56.0 44.9 Cost of new investments 143.1 188.2 Net repayment drawdown of corporate debt facility 16.3 16.3 Proceeds of capital raisings net of costs 195.0 94.2 Disposal proceeds - 22.3 Distributions paid 48.6 40.7 Net cash at period end 72.4 29.4 The Companys net cash at 31 December 2015 was 72.4 million 31 December 2014: 29.4 million, an increase of 43 million reflecting proceeds from capital raising and positive investment cash flows offset by new investments made in the year and repayment of outstanding balances on the corporate debt facility.
Cash inflow from the Companys investment portfolio was 76.0 million 31 December 2014: 64.0 million.
The increased cash flow was mainly due to the contributions from new investments made during the year.
Recurring operating costs have increased from 12.2 million to 13.7 million, in line with the increase in the Companys NAV and increased audit fees, as detailed in the ongoing charges table below: other operating costs have remained largely consistent.
Net financing costs increased from 1.9 million to 3.5 million mainly due to the drawdowns on the corporate debt facility made to provide financing for investments prior to the equity capital raise.
Non-recurring operating costs of 2.8 million 31 December 2014: 5.0 million mainly represent costs associated with the refinancing of the corporate debt facility in the period and one-off transaction costs incurred on new investments.
The Company funded its acquisitions during the period by drawing down on its corporate debt facility which was subsequently repaid using the proceeds from capital issuance.
No investments were disposed of in the year 31 December 2014: 22.3 million.
Cash dividends paid in the period of 48.6 million 31 December 2014: 40.7 million were in respect of the six month periods ended 31 December 2014 and 30 June 2015. International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 24 Strategic Report Strategic Report 2015 Financial and Operating Review continued Corporate expenses and ongoing charges A breakdown of corporate operating costs paid is provided below: Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Corporate Expenses million million Management fees 12.5 11.1 Audit fees 0.2 0.1 Directors fees 0.2 0.2 Other running costs 0.8 0.8 Operating costs ongoing 13.7 12.2 The increase in management fees paid to the Investment Adviser is in line with the growth in managed investments and the growth of the Companys portfolio.
Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Ongoing Charges million million 1 Annualised Ongoing Charges 13.7 12.2 2 Average NAV 1,143.3 983.5 Ongoing Charges 1.20% 1.24% 1 The Ongoing Charges ratio was prepared in accordance with the Association of Investment Companies AIC recommended methodology, noting this excludes non-recurring costs.
2 Average of published NAVs for the relevant period.
Active Asset Management Investment cash flow from the Companys portfolio of 120 investments has continued to perform in line with the Companys forecasts.
Ensuring that the Companys assets are available for use and are performing in accordance with contractual expectations is a critical task for the Company and its service providers.
The Investment Adviser, on behalf of the Company, closely monitors the relationship between service providers and public sector clients.
It is actively involved in the ongoing management of assets to ensure that performance standards are being met.
In addition to these day-to-day activities, the Investment Adviser works with public sector clients on assignments as they arise.
During 2015, our public sector clients commissioned c. 950 variations resulting in over 10 million of additional works at the project level.
All variations were overseen by the Investment Adviser as part of the day-to-day asset management activities it undertakes in conjunction with the project facilities manager and the public sector client.
Variations ranged in size from a few hundred pounds to over 2 million and demonstrate the value and flexibility of PFI PPP contracts to respond to the changing requirements of public sector clients.
The Company also takes an active role in assisting its public sector clients to achieve savings from existing concession arrangements.
The Investment Adviser is working with a number of its public sector counterparties to identify and deliver efficiencies and savings in operational PFI and PPP contracts.
Across the portfolio a number of benchmarking exercises have been undertaken in relation to both insurance and facility management services that have resulted in reduced costs to the public sector.
On a number of the Companys portfolio of assets the Investment Adviser, facilities management operator and the public sector client work extensively with the local community.
Examples include local sports clubs using schools facilities, schools utilising the court facilities for mock trials, workplace experience for students and those who have been long term unemployed, and various out of school hours clubs.
During the latter stages of 2015 work commenced on two new assets in construction.
The New Schools PPP Project in Australia Victorian Schools 2 reached financial close on 29 October 2015.
The Project comprises 15 new build schools across twelve different green-field sites in outer metropolitan Melbourne.
In order to meet the construction programme, design development commenced shortly after the confirmation of preferred bidder status and design submissions to the State continued through financial close to the end of 2015.
Construction on the project is split into two tranches with the first eight schools due to be completed by 1 January 2017 and the remainder by 1 January 2018.
Design and construction progress on the project is on programme and includes: - Submission of five design packages to the State: - The establishment of several sites and commencement of ground works.
Works over the next twelve months include completion of the design and construction of the first tranche of eight schools and finalised design for the remaining schools.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 25 Strategic Report Strategic Report 2015 Financial and Operating Review continued In addition since its investment in Thames Tideway Tunnel Tideway significant milestones have been achieved to allow the company to start construction on the 25km super sewer.
Thames Water, on Tideways behalf, is well-advanced with the necessary enabling works which are preparing the 24 sites across London for the driving of the tunnel itself, with the most prominent piece of work taking place in the foreshore by Blackfriars Bridge.
Main works construction is anticipated to start slightly earlier than planned, in the first half of 2016.
Projects under construction as at 31 December 2015, all of which are currently on schedule for operational commencement are set out in the table below.
Defects % of Fair Value Location Construction Completion Date Completion Year Status of Investment Asset Priority School Building Aggregator Programme 4 UK 2018 2019 On Schedule 3.1% batches UK 2024 2027 On Schedule 4.9% Thames Tideway Tunnel 1 Australia 2018 2019 On Schedule N A Victoria Schools PPP Project 1 The Victoria Schools Project is currently funded via a letter of credit.
Investment will be made at construction completion.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 26 Strategic Report Case Study - Thames Tideway Tunnel Thames Tideway Tunnel 210m Tideway is a new 4.2bn Investment Commitment investment in the 25km sewer network which will Length of tunnel carry sewage and storm water discharges from the 65m London sewerage network.
Maximum tunnel depth Project Overview Project Background & Financing - Tideway will be a 25km sewer tunnel running up to 65 - Amber, the Companys Investment Adviser, worked on metres below the Thames, effectively replacing the behalf of the Company and formed the Bazalgette Thames as a sewer of last resort, feeding overflow consortium in 2014 to bid on the project alongside other sewage to a pumping station at Abbey Mills in East leading investors including: London Allianz Capital Partners - The tunnel will be built under three separate construction Dalmore Capital Limited contracts each covering a distinct physical section of the DIF Infrastructure network Swiss Life - The winning construction contractors were selected - The investor group includes a significant proportion of UK through a separate competitive tender process run by pension funds through which over 1.7 million Thames Water - UK pensioners will have an indirect investment in Tideway - The Company will invest up to 210m for a 16% stake, in instalments drawn during the construction period - INPPs commitment is backed by letters of credit against the Companys corporate debt facility.
The last instalment is scheduled to occur in early 2018 - Six relationship banks will provide senior non-recourse debt directly to the project Key features - A yielding investment through both construction and operating periods 120 years - A fully RPI-linked revenue stream - The investment will significantly extend the Companys portfolios life: the weighted average concession life of the portfolio to c. 40 years once full investment is made - Strong protections exist to mitigate construction risks, including: Experienced management team, project manager and construction contractors already in place Significant incentive arrangements under the construction contracts, licence and stakeholder arrangements A government support package which provides significant mitigation to the risks of construction Bespoke regulatory features to reflect the nature of the construction obligations including a mechanism applied after construction to incentivise cost and time savings International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 27 Strategic Report Strategic Report 2015 Financial and Operating Review continued Performance against Strategic Priorities 2.
Value-focused Portfolio Development During the year the Company made further investment or commitments of 311.7 million across nine projects.
The projects acquired were either sourced by the Investment Adviser from project inception i. e. in response to an initial government procurement process or were acquired by way of further investment into the Companys existing assets.
These methods of procurement remain the Companys preferred route to market as they necessarily avoid investment in the open secondary market which remains very competitive.
Details of acquisitions are provided below.
Acquisition Investment Asset Location Divestment Operational Status Commitment Acquisition date Priority School Building North East, UK Acquisition Under construction 7.9 million 10 March 2015 Aggregator Programme Batch 1 Priority School Building Hertfordshire, Acquisition Under construction 10.2 million 19 March 2015 Aggregator Programme Luton and Batch 2 Reading, UK Priority School Building North West, UK Acquisition Under construction 8.4 million 25 March 2015 Aggregator Programme Batch 3 Building Schools for the Lewisham, UK Acquisition Operational 14.3 million 17 April 2015 Future Liverpool Central Library Liverpool, UK Acquisition Operational 1.9 million 30 June 2015 Priority School Building Midlands, UK Acquisition Under construction 9.8 million 13 August 2015 Aggregator Programme Batch 4 Thames Tideway Tunnel London, UK Acquisition Under construction Up to 210 24 August 2015 1 million US Military Housing P3 Various, US Acquisition Operational 31.7 million 4 October 2015 1 Victoria Schools PPP Victoria, Acquisition Under construction 17.5 million 28 October 2015 Project Australia Post 31 December 2015 Westermost Rough OFTO Yorkshire, UK Acquisition Operational 26.8 million 3 February 2016 1 Funding for investment solely or partially by way of letter of credit to support future investment commitment.
Priority Schools Building Programme Aggregator During the twelve months to 31 December 2015 the Amber Consortium of which the Company is part, reached financial close investing 36.3 million into four of five batches of schools being delivered through the Priority Schools Building Programme PSBP.
These projects use an innovative financing model based upon the establishment of a funding vehicle known as the Aggregator.
One of the key features of the Aggregator is the ability to warehouse loans and thereby aggregate total financing requirements across all five schools batches.
The Aggregator is financed by a Consortium including the Company along with Aviva Investors and the European Investment Bank providing senior debt.
The Company expects to provide up to an additional c. 7 million funding to the remaining batch.
Financial close of this final batch is expected in the early part of 2016.
Additional investment in Lewisham Building Schools for the Future BSF project During the period, the Company acquired an additional 40% investment in the Lewisham BSF concession, increasing the Companys overall exposure to between 41% and 50% in the underlying BSF assets.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 28 Strategic Report Strategic Report 2015 Financial and Operating Review continued The Company invested 14.3 million for an additional 40% interest from Babcock Project Investments Limited.
The Lewisham project comprises schools located in south east London boroughs, including Sedgehill and Conisborough Schools: Trinity School: Deptford Green School: and, Bonus Pastor, Pendergast and Drum Beat Schools.
Additional investment in Liverpool Central Library project In June the Company acquired an additional 19.9% investment for c. 1.9 million in the Liverpool Central Library PFI concession from Shepherd Construction.
The acquisition increased the Companys overall exposure from 80.1% to 100%.
The Liverpool Central Library is one of the flagship legacy projects for the Liverpool City Council, as part of the Liverpool European Capital of Culture programme in 2008.
The Company, through its Investment Adviser, acted as Lead Sponsor and Manager for the 50 million project to refurbish three existing historic library buildings which included the demolition and construction of a new main library and archive complex.
The Library reached construction completion in January 2013 and opened to the public in May that year.
Thames Tideway Tunnel project In August, the Company along with its consortium partners reached financial close on the Thames Tideway Tunnel Tideway project.
The Company will invest up to 210 million in relation to its 16% stake in the project.
It is the Companys largest investment to date.
The remaining Risk Capital is being funded by the consortium partners.
Tideway is one of the most significant UK infrastructure investment opportunities.
Up to 39 million tonnes of untreated sewage are currently discharged into Londons waterways every year and the project will significantly reduce this.
Tideway will be a new part of the sewer network which will carry sewage and storm water discharges from the broader London sewerage system.
Tideway will be a 7.2m diameter 25km sewer tunnel running up to 65 metres below the Thames and will effectively replace the Thames as a sewer of last resort.
The Tideway project has a design life of 120 years and is expected to provide yield to its investors throughout this period.
Construction of the estimated 4.2 billion project 2011 prices will be under three main contracts.
The construction preferred bidders were announced in February 2015, with BMB JV Joint Venture of BAM Nuttall Ltd, Morgan Sindall Plc and Balfour Beatty Group Limited selected for the West contract, FLO JV Joint Venture of Ferrovial Agroman UK Ltd, Laing ORourke Construction for the Central contract and CVB JV Joint Venture of Costain, Vinci Construction Grands Projets and Bachy Soletanche for the East contract.
Construction is expected to commence in 2016 and reach completion by 2023 followed by a 120 year operational life.
During construction, the Tideway project will benefit from a bespoke regulatory framework that will allow it to start generating revenue when construction begins.
Once fully operational, Ofwat will regulate the Tideway project in line with other water and sewerage companies regulatory cycles.
The Companys commitment to Tideway has been secured through the issue of a letter of credit under the Companys corporate debt facility.
The Companys investment will be funded as the projects milestones are met with the final injection expected in early 2018.
As a result at 31 December 2015, the Company had invested 58.9 million into the project with the remainder backed by a letter of credit.
US Military Housing P3 The Company invested approximately US$48 million c. 32 million into a series of fully yielding subordinated debt instruments with a remaining average life of 37 years.
The subordinated debt was acquired by the Company from the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac and is underpinned by security over seven operational P3 military housing projects relating to a total of 19 operational military bases in the US comprising approximately 21,800 individual housing units.
The opportunity was identified as a consequence of the Hunt shareholding in the Companys Investment Adviser and the relationship that exists between Hunt and the Company with respect to US opportunities.
Hunt are one of the largest owners, managers and providers of ongoing services in the P3 Military Housing sector having interests in approximately 33,000 housing units including those the subject of this transaction where they also provide property management services in respect of most of the units.
Victoria Schools PPP Project The Company reached financial close on a new schools scheme in the State of Victoria, Australia.
The Company will invest A$35.6 million 17.5 million, representing 100% of the Projects risk capital at the end of the projects construction period, expected in 2018.
The commitment is currently secured through the issue of a letter of credit under the Companys corporate debt facility.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 29 Strategic Report Strategic Report 2015 Financial and Operating Review continued The Project has been commissioned by the Victorian Department of Education and Training, and comprises the design, building, financing and maintenance of 15 schools across twelve sites.
The contract with the Victorian Government is for a period of 25 years from the expected date of construction completion.
The Project is expected to deliver a predictable and high quality cash flow to the Company backed by the credit of the State of Victoria which is rated AAA by both S&P and Moodys.
The Company anticipates a return on its investment fully in line with its experience on other comparable projects.
Westermost Rough offshore transmission project OFTO In February 2016, Transmission Capital Partners, the consortium comprising INPP, Amber Infrastructure and Transmission Investment reached financial close for the long-term license and operation of its sixth UK offshore transmission project, Westermost Rough OFTO.
The Company made a 26.8 million investment for 100% of the equity and subordinated debt of the OFTO.
The OFTO will connect a windfarm containing 35 6MW turbines located 8km off the coast of Yorkshire to the onshore grid network, providing enough electricity to power around 150,000 UK homes.
Efficient Financial Management The Company seeks to generate dividends to investors that are paid from operating cash flow.
For the year ended 31 December 2015 the cash dividend paid to investors was 1.2 times covered by net operating cash flow and the Company remains confident that it will be able to grow dividends in the future.
In May 2015, the Company renewed its corporate debt facility the facility with existing providers, Royal Bank of Scotland and the National Australia Bank Limited.
The facility size increased from 175 million to 300 million.
The margin on the facility is 175 basis points, 50 basis points lower than the original arrangement.
The facility is subject to renewal in May 2018.
The drawn portion of the facility was fully repaid in December 2015.
Currently 169 million is drawn on the facility via letters of credit, which takes into account the Companys investment into Westermost Rough OFTO in February 2016.
It remains the Companys policy not to have long-term corporate level debt and it is anticipated that to the extent that the corporate facility is drawn to fund acquisitions, this would be a short-term arrangement and equity funding, by means of a capital raising, would be sought to repay outstanding debt as soon as practicable.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 30
