Strategic Report Strategic Report Operating Model - A vertically integrated model which gives the Company visibility of and a relationship with its Key Aspects of the Operating Model public sector customers The diagram above illustrates the Companys operating model, which is founded upon: - An experienced Investor Adviser team, expert in all aspects of infrastructure development, investment and management - Strong independent Board leadership and governance - A disciplined approach to asset selection and country risk - A long-term alignment of interest with its Investment Adviser and other key suppliers - A focus on acquiring controlling stakes or minority positions where strategically beneficial to do so - Consistent communication and delivery of strategy throughout the Group International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 13 Strategic Report Strategic Report Operating Model continued Relationship with the Investment Adviser and its group the Companys best interest.
The current Investment Advisory Agreement IAA was renegotiated in 2013 and has a ten year fixed term with a five year notice period.
The Board consider that given the long-term nature of the Companys investments and its responsibility for the detailed day-to-day delivery of management services and relationships with public sector clients, it is important that it benefits from the continuity of service provided by a longterm advisory partner.
In order to ensure that shareholder interests are protected, termination provisions have been put in place to ensure that, in the event of poor investment performance, the Company has flexibility to remove the Investment Adviser.
The Investment Adviser is also entitled to receive an asset origination fee of 1.5% of the value of new investments acquired by the Group.
It should be noted that, generally, the Investment Adviser bears the risk of abortive transaction origination costs and that this fee has been waived or reduced by agreement in the past where it has been deemed appropriate to do so for the transaction in question.
Certain discretionary fees that were previously included in the IAA had not in fact been paid to the Investment Adviser.
Such Board and Committees equity raising and disposal fees were formally removed from The Board sets the strategy for the Company and makes the IAA in October 2015. decisions on changes to the portfolio including approvals of acquisitions, disposals and valuations.
Through committees Cash receipts from capital raisings and tap issuances are not and the use of external independent advisers it manages risk included in the gross asset value for the purposes of the and governance of the Company.
The Board has a majority calculation of base fees until such receipts are invested for of Independent Directors currently five of the six Directors the first time.
See the Corporate Governance Report for further details.
Further information and details of the Boards process for independent management and review of the relationship Investment Adviser between the Investment Adviser and the Company are set The Companys Investment Adviser is Amber Fund out within the Corporate Governance Report.
Management Limited a member of the Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Limited group of companies.
Group Structure The Company holds its investments through a number of Contractual arrangements and fees holding entities including an English law limited partnership The contractual arrangements allow for the provision of of which one of its subsidiaries is the sole limited partner and investment advisory and certain other financial services to the a company associated with the Investment Adviser is the Board.
In return, the Investment Adviser receives fees based general partner.
Beneath these holding entities the on the gross asset value and composition of the investment Companys investments are held in special purpose portfolio as well as a contribution to expenses.
The annual investment entities so that, as far as possible, each base fees are detailed in note 18 to the financial statements investment is held in a separate entity to avoid cross and calculated at the following rates: collateralisation between investments.
- 1.2% for that part of the portfolio that bears construction Investment entity asset management risk i. e. the asset has not fully completed all construction Underlying investment entities particularly PPP PFI entities stages including any relevant defects period and do not typically have their own employees, although there achieved certification by the relevant counterparty and are important exceptions to this.
Outside of these senior lender exceptions, normal practice is for such services to be - For fully operational assets: subcontracted at the time of project inception to specialist 1.2% for the first 750 million of gross asset value of asset management entities.
The role of the asset manager is the portfolio to manage all interfaces between the investment entity, the 1.0% for that part of the portfolio that exceeds 750 client, financiers and supply chain sub-contractors.
million in gross asset value but is less than 1.5 billion Such services are generally provided directly to each 0.9% for that part of the portfolio that exceeds 1.5 investment under asset management contracts specific to billion in gross asset value that investment entity.
Services typically include day-to-day In addition, gross asset value excludes uncommitted cash management, issue resolution, monitoring and reporting for from capital raisings.
the entity and can cover operational, regulatory, compliance, accounting, tax, company secretarial and other related The Company has a long-standing relationship with the services specific to each entity.
Investment Adviser and the Board believes that the continuation of this relationship, on a long-term basis, is in International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 14 Strategic Report Strategic Report Operating Model continued Typically such services are provided by a third party in return and costs will in the normal course be payable on financial for a fixed fee under contracts put in place at the inception of close of the opportunity to a range of service providers the project after a period of competition.
including associates of the Investment Adviser relating to matters such as reimbursement of bid costs, and in respect The Companys preference for the majority of its investments of legal, technical, development and financial advisory work.
is for associates of the Investment Adviser to provide such For the avoidance of doubt, such amounts are not paid by services to the relevant entity.
This ensures that financial the Company but by the project entity formed to carry on that and operational aspects are performed in house by Amber project and any such amounts form part of the overall capital rather than subcontracted to other third party service or project bid costs.
The Companys projected investment providers who have less incentive to focus on delivery of return from any prospective investment is calculated after desired outcomes.
The contracts and fees payable for such taking account of all such costs.
asset management services whether with third parties or, where Amber provides these services, associates of the Differentiation of Operating Model Investment Adviser are generally set in real terms for the life The operational structure of the Company and the investee of the project and agreed at the time of documentation of the entities it invests in and through is designed to align the project with the public sector which in many cases will be interests of those entities with the Company.
The prior to the Companys investment.
These form part of the Companys preferred operational structure and the structure project costs along with other project service related costs of the Investment Adviser and its associates acting as and are thus outside the Companys direct control but the investment adviser, operator and asset manager effectively Companys projected investment returns are calculated after extends the Boards oversight to the underlying asset taking account of all such project costs.
management and finance teams enabling it to be an active rather than a passive investor.
In line with IFRS 10 Investment Entity Consolidation Exemption all underlying project level costs and project The Investment Adviser and its associates employ more than level revenues are excluded from the Groups financial 80 personnel, the majority to support the Company and its statements.
Instead and consistent with other investment investment entities in the provision of financial and asset funds, the financial statements present investment returns management services.
This operating model contrasts with received from underlying investments received out of competitor models that have tended to employ smaller teams investee entity net cash flows.
and instead outsource some or all of such services.
Investment origination The Company believes its operating structure differentiates it The Investment Adviser plays a key role in identifying, within the market and provides it with greater control of the developing and originating investment opportunities that performance of its underlying investments for example meet the Companys requirements and putting these forward management of lifecycle cost risk or control of contract to the Board of Directors for initial consideration and, where variations.
These opportunities may lead to the Company investing in such projects and or acquiring The Companys operating model is also differentiated investments from associates of the Investment Adviser.
through the capability of the Companys Investment Adviser Where investments are acquired from associates of the to originate new primary market transactions which provide Investment Adviser, consideration is undertaken in the Company with access to off-market opportunities not accordance with detailed procedures designed to ensure the afforded to other infrastructure investment funds.
These fair treatment of the Company and to ensure the valuation is opportunities typically take several years or more to gestate approved independently by a suitably experienced third party and are regularly reviewed between the Company and its valuer.
More details are set out in the Corporate Governance Investment Adviser.
Under the terms of the Investment Report.
Advisory Agreement the Company has a right of first look at investments fitting its investment mandate that are being Where associates of the Investment Adviser undertake realised by Amber.
This has been extended to include project origination and development activity e. g. bidding for certain opportunities being realised by Hunt Companies a new primary projects they do so at their own risk and bear U. S. based group and 50% shareholder in the Investment the risks of lack of success and associated abortive costs Adviser.
The access that the Company has had to such which on large projects can be substantial.
The Company primary opportunities alongside the access that the does however have a contractual right of first look at such Company has, in common with other funds, to secondary investment opportunities either on financial close or, if opportunities broadens the Companys opportunity set for originally invested in by an associate of the Investment new investments.
Adviser, upon disposal of that investment.
Following success in project origination and development activity, fees International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 15
