Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 1.
Basis of Preparation International Public Partnerships Limited is a closed ended authorised investment company incorporated in Guernsey under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The address of the registered office is given on page 91.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out on pages 4 and 9 to 12 respectively.
These financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling as this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group Parent and consolidated subsidiary entities operates and represents the functional currency of the Parent and all values are rounded to the nearest 000, except where otherwise indicated.
Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, adopted by the European Union: interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee: applicable legal and regulatory requirements of Guernsey: and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The financial statements follow the historical cost basis, except for financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss and derivatives that have been measured at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out in relevant notes to the financial statements.
The Directors have determined that International Public Partnerships Limited is an investment entity as defined by IFRS 10 on the basis that the Company: a obtains funds from one or more investor s for the purpose of providing those investor s with investment management services: b commits to its investors that its business purpose is to invest funds solely for returns from capital appreciation, investment income, or both: and c measures and evaluates the performance of substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
Accordingly, these financial statements consolidate only those subsidiaries that provide services relevant to its investment activities, such as management services, strategic advice and financial support to its investees.
Subsidiaries that do not provide investmentrelated services are required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Going concern As set out in the Directors Report, the Directors have reviewed cash flow forecasts prepared by management.
Based on those forecasts and an assessment of the Group's committed banking facilities, it has been considered appropriate to prepare the financial statements of the Group on a going concern basis.
In arriving at their conclusion that the Group has adequate financial resources, the Directors were mindful that the Group had unrestricted cash of 21 million as at 31 December 2015.
In May 2015, the Companys corporate debt facility was renewed to 300 million 2014: 175 million of which 131 million was uncommitted as at 31 December 2015, and is available for investment in new and existing projects until May 2018.
The new facility is forecast to continue in full compliance with the associated banking covenants.
The Company also continues to fully cover operating costs and distributions from underlying cash flows from investments.
Accounting Policies The annual financial statements of International Public Partnerships Limited are prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The same accounting policies, presentation and methods of computation are followed in this set of annual financial statements as applied in the previous financial year.
The new and revised IFRS and interpretations becoming effective in the period have had no impact on the accounting policies of the Group.
Note 21 sets out a comprehensive listing of all new standards applicable from 1 January 2016.
Significant Judgements and Estimates Service entities and consolidation group Following the adoption of IFRS 10 Investment Entity Amendments, the consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and service entities controlled by the Company up to 31 December 2015, that themselves do not meet the definition of an investment entity.
Typically a service entity provides management services, strategic advice and financial support to investee entities.
Judgement is therefore required in assessing which entities meet these definitional requirements.
The Directors have reviewed and assessed the criteria applied in the assessment of services entities based on the guidance in place as at 31 December 2015 and are satisfied with the resulting conclusion.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 66
