Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 12.
Financial Instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when contractual provisions of the instrument are entered into.
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the instrument expire or the asset is transferred and the transfer qualifies for derecognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expired.
Specific financial asset and liability accounting policies are provided below.
12.1 Financial assets 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 000s 000s 1 Investments at fair value through profit and loss 1,201,107 1,032,941 Financial asset loans and receivables Trade and other receivables 23,099 19,529 Cash and cash equivalents 72,391 29,391 Derivative financial instruments Currency swaps 1,719 2,948 Total financial assets 1,298,316 1,084,809 1 Includes fair value of investments in associates amounting to 2.0 million 2014: 1.7 million.
Movements in the period represent additional fair value gains offset by net repayments from investments.
Accounting policy The Group classifies its financial assets as at fair value through profit or loss or as loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired, with investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries other than those providing investment-related services being designated at fair value through profit and loss as required by IFRS 10.
Investments at fair value through profit or loss Investments in underlying unconsolidated subsidiaries are designated upon initial recognition as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The Groups policy is to fair value both the equity and debt investments in PPP assets together.
All transaction costs relating to the acquisition of new investments are recognised directly in profit or loss.
Subsequent to initial recognition, equity and debt investments are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised within operating income in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Financial assets loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that are non-derivative financial assets and that have fixed or determinable payments and are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and other receivables.
Loans and other receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
When calculating the effective interest rate, the Group estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms of the financial instruments, but does not consider future credit losses.
Financial assets with maturities less than 12 months are included in current assets, financial assets with maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date are classified as non-current assets.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Derivative Financial Instruments Derivatives are recognised initially, and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive or as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are offset only if the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of offset exists, and the parties intend to settle the cash flows on a net basis.
Fair value movements on derivative financial instruments held for trading are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Impairment of Financial Assets Financial assets, other than those classified as at fair value through profit or loss are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been adversely impacted.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 71 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 12.
Financial Instruments continued 12.2 Financial liabilities 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 000s 000s Financial liabilities at amortised cost Trade and other payables 8,114 6,414 Bank loans - 16,327 Total financial liabilities 8,114 22,741 Accounting policy Trade and other payables Financial liabilities, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate policy, are stated based on the amounts which are considered to be payable in respect of goods or services received up to the financial reporting date.
The cost of other liabilities is considered to approximate their fair value.
12.3 Financial risk and management objectives The Groups objective in managing risk is the creation and protection of shareholder value.
Risk is inherent in the Groups activities and is managed through a process of ongoing identification, measurement and monitoring, subject to risk limits and other controls.
The process of risk management is critical to the Groups continuing profitability.
The Group is exposed to market risk which includes currency risk, interest rate risk and inflation risk, credit risk and liquidity risk arising from the financial instruments it holds.
The Groups Investment Adviser is responsible for identifying and controlling risks.
The Board of Directors supervises the Investment Adviser and is ultimately responsible for the overall risk management of the Group.
The Groups risk management framework and approach is set out within the Strategic Report pages 35-42.
The Boards considerations of key risks impacting the business are set out within the Strategic Report.
The Board takes into account market, credit and liquidity risks in forming the Groups risk management strategy.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market variables such as changes in inflation, foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Inflation risk The majority of the Groups cash flows from underlying investments are linked to inflation indices.
Changes in inflation rates can have a positive or negative impact on the Groups cash flows from investments.
The long-term inflation assumptions applied in the Groups valuation of investments at fair value through profit or loss are disclosed in the fair value hierarchy section 12.4.
The Groups portfolio of investments has been developed in anticipation of continued inflation at or above the levels used in the Groups valuation assumptions.
Where inflation is at levels below the assumed levels, investment performance may be impaired.
The level of inflation linkage across the investments held by the Group varies and is not consistent.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows from underlying investments therefore impacting the value of investments at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group has limited exposure to interest rate risk as the underlying borrowings within the unconsolidated investee entities are either hedged through interest rate swap arrangements or are fixed rate loans.
It is generally a requirement under a PFI PPP concession that any borrowings are matched to the life of the concession.
Hedging activities are aligned with the period of the loan, which also mirrors the concession period and are highly effective.
The Groups corporate facility is unhedged on the basis it is utilised as an investment bridging facility and therefore drawn for a relatively short period of time.
Therefore, the Group is not significantly exposed to cash flow risk due to changes in interest rates over its variable rate borrowings.
Interest income on bank deposits held at underlying investment level is included within the fair value of investments.
Sensitivity analysis showing the impact of variations in interest income deposit rates on the fair value of investments is shown in section 12.5. International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 72 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 12.
Financial Instruments continued 12.3 Financial risk and management objectives continued Foreign currency risk The Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies and therefore is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations.
Currency risk arises in financial instruments that are denominated in a foreign currency other than the functional currency in which they are measured.
The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary financial instruments at the reporting date are set out in the table below: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 000s 000s Cash Euro 871 2,263 Canadian Dollar 1,107 824 Australian Dollar 11 1 US Dollar 3 - 1,992 3,088 Current receivables Euro receivables 393 407 393 407 Investments at fair value through profit or loss Euro 202,968 210,962 Canadian Dollar 34,819 38,858 Australian Dollar 85,370 93,050 US Dollar 32,204 - 355,361 342,870 Total 357,746 346,365 The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate the risk of short-term volatility in foreign exchange on significant investment returns from overseas investments.
Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in a financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of dealing only with creditworthy counterparties at the underlying entity level.
PFI PPP and similar concessions are entered into with government, quasi government, other public or equivalent low risk bodies.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Group would encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset.
The Group invests in relatively illiquid investments mainly non-listed equity and loans.
As a closed-ended investment vehicle there are no automatic redemption of capital rights.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities and by continuously monitoring the forecast and actual cash flows.
Cash flow forecasts assume full availability of underlying infrastructure to the public sector entities.
Failure to maintain assets available for use or operating in accordance with pre-determined performance standards may entitle the public sector to stop wholly or partially paying the income that the Group has projected to receive.
The Directors review the underlying performance of each investment on a quarterly basis, allowing asset performance to be monitored.
Contractual mechanisms also allow for significant pass-down of unavailability and performance risk to sub-contractors.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 73 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 12.
Financial Instruments continued 12.4 Fair value hierarchy All financial instruments for which fair value is recognised or disclosed are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: - Level 1 Quoted market prices in an active market that are unadjusted for identical assets or liabilities - Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable - Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable During the period there were no transfers between Level 2 and Level 3 categories.
Level 1: The Group has no financial instruments classified as level 1.
Level 2: This category includes derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, RPI Swaps and currency forward contracts.
As at 31 December 2015, the Groups only derivative financial instruments were currency forward contracts amounting to an asset of 1.7 million 2014: asset of 2.9 million.
Financial instruments classified as Level 2 have been valued using models whose inputs are observable in an active market spot exchange rates, yield curves, interest rate curves.
Valuations based on observable inputs include financial instruments such as swaps and forward contracts which are valued using market standard pricing techniques where all the inputs to the market standard pricing models are observable.
Level 3: This category consists of investments in equity and loan instruments in underlying unconsolidated subsidiary entities which are classified at fair value through profit or loss.
At 31 December 2015, the fair value of financial instruments classified within Level 3 totalled 1,201.1 million 2014: 1,032.9 million.
Financial instruments are classified within Level 3 if their valuation incorporates significant inputs that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
A valuation input is considered observable if it can be directly observed from transactions in an active market, or if there is compelling external evidence demonstrating an executable exit price.
Valuation process Valuations are the responsibility of the Board of Directors.
The valuation of unlisted equity and debt investments is performed on a 1 quarterly basis by the Investment Adviser and reviewed by the senior members of the Investment Adviser.
The valuations are also subject to quality assurance procedures performed by the Investment Adviser.
The Investment Adviser verifies the major inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing the information in the valuation computation to relevant project financial models and market information.
In addition, the accuracy of the computation is tested.
The latest valuation is also compared with the valuations in the preceding semi-annual and annual reporting periods.
The senior members of the Investment Adviser consider the appropriateness of the valuation methods and inputs.
On a quarterly basis, after the checks above have been performed, the Investment Adviser presents the valuation results to the Audit and Risk Committee.
This includes a discussion of the major assumptions used in the valuations, with an emphasis on the more significant investments.
Any changes in valuation methods and assumptions are discussed and agreed with the Groups Audit and Risk Committee for recommendation to the Board.
In addition, any investment acquisitions by the Group from related parties are also subject to an independent valuation provided to the Board.
Valuation methodology The valuation methodologies used are primarily based on discounting the underlying investee entities future projected net cash flows at appropriate discount rates.
Valuations are also reviewed against recent market transactions for similar assets in comparable markets observed by the Group or Investment Adviser and adjusted where appropriate.
1 Indicative valuations performed at 31 March and 30 September where cash flows are updated for asset performance.
Macroeconomic assumptions are updated at 30 June and 31 December.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 74 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2015 continued 12.
Financial Instruments continued 12.4 Fair value hierarchy continued Projected net future cash flows Cash flow forecasts for each underlying investment are generated through detailed project specific financial models.
Financial models forecast the project related cash flows for the full term of the underlying service concession.
The cash flows included in the forecasts used to determine fair value are typically fixed under contracts however there are certain variable cash flows which are based on management estimation.
These models also forecast the dividend, shareholder loan interest payments, capital repayments and senior debt repayments where applicable expected from the underlying investments.
Key macroeconomic inputs and assumptions utilised in projecting the Groups net future cash flows include: Europe UK Non UK North America Australia Inflation 2.75% 1% in 2016: 2.00% 2.50% 2% thereafter Long-term tax 20% - 18% 12.50% - 33.99% 26.00% - 27.00% 30% Foreign exchange rates N A 1.28 1.49-2.02 2.13 Long-term deposit rates 3.00% 3.00% 3.00% 4.50% Discount rate The discount rate used for valuation of each investment is the aggregate of the following: - yield on government bonds with an average life equivalent to the weighted average concession length of the Group, issued by the national government for the location of the asset government bond yield - a premium to reflect the inherent greater risk in investing in infrastructure assets over government bonds - a further premium to reflect the state of maturity of the asset with a larger premium applied to immature assets and or assets in construction and or to reflect any current asset specific or operational issues.
Typically this risk premium will reduce over the life of any asset as an asset matures, its operating performance becomes more established, and the risks associated with its future cash flows decrease - a further adjustment reflective of market-based transaction valuation evidence for similar assets Over the period, the weighted average government bond decreased by 0.48%.
This was offset by a 0.53% increase in the weighted average project premium to reflect the transactions observed in the market and the decrease in risk premia relating to construction assets nearing or that have reached completion.
Further details are provided within the Strategic Report page 22.
31 December 31 December Valuation Methodology 2015 2014 Movement Weighted Average Government Bond Rate 2.31% 2.79% 0.48% Weighted Average Project Premium 5.22% 4.69% 0.53% Weighted Average Discount Rate 7.53% 7.48% 0.05% 1 Weighted Average Discount Rate 8.09% 7.90% 0.19% 1 Weighted average discount rate on Risk Capital only equity and subordinated debt.
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets: 000s Balance at 1 January 2015 1,032,941 Additional investments during the year 143,077 Net repayments during the year 14,695 Net change in fair value of investments at fair value through profit or loss 39,784 Balance at 31 December 2015 1,201,107 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 75
