Annual financial statements Other reserves Shareholders Perpetual Regulatory equity Ordinary preference Capital Availablegeneral Cash flow Foreign excluding Nonshare share Share Treasury reserve for-sale risk hedge currency Retained non-controlling controlling Total 000 capital capital premium shares account reserve reserve reserve reserves income interests interests Equity Balance at 1 April 2013 as previously reported 177 151 1130210 52098 313582 5492 17141 12073 85027 572600 2060209 164554 2224763 Restatements on adoption of IFRIC 21 3738 3738 3738 Balance at 1 April 2013 as restated 177 151 1130210 52098 313582 5492 17141 12073 85027 576338 2063947 164554 2228501 Movement in reserves 1 April 2013 31 March 2014 Profit after taxation 90347 90347 2815 93162 Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 2793 2793 2793 Gains on realisation of available-for-sale assets recycled through the income statement 2896 2896 2896 Fair value movements on available-for-sale assets 1239 1239 1239 Foreign currency adjustments on translating foreign operations 271 3254 2189 44310 443 46089 407 45682 Remeasurement of net defined pension asset 5870 5870 5870 Total comprehensive income for the year 1928 3254 4982 44310 84034 39524 3222 42746 Share-based payments adjustments 36740 36740 36740 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 53200 53200 53200 Dividends declared to perpetual preference shareholders 3395 3395 3395 Dividends paid to perpetual preference shareholders 12021 12021 12021 Dividends paid to perpetual preference shareholders included in non-controlling interests 12021 12021 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 1794 1794 Issue of ordinary shares 1 16338 16339 16339 Acquisition of non-controlling interests 270 270 Non-controlling interest relating to partial disposal of subsidiaries 61583 61583 10999 72582 Movement of treasury shares 4899 52736 57635 57635 Transfer to capital reserve account 5 5 Transfer to regulatory general risk reserve 958 958 At 31 March 2014 178 151 1146548 56997 260851 3564 14845 7091 40717 689116 2091882 176711 2268593 Movement in reserves 1 April 2014 31 March 2015 Profit after taxation 23813 23813 6803 30616 Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 1040 1040 1040 Losses on realisation of available-for-sale assets recycled through the income statement 1935 1935 1935 Fair value movements on available-for-sale assets 4216 4216 4216 Foreign currency adjustments on translating foreign operations 138 62 51404 51480 4 51484 4 4 Remeasurement of net defined pension asset 6340 6340 6340 Total comprehensive loss for the year 2281 138 1102 51404 17473 70194 6807 77001 Share-based payments adjustments 35050 35050 35050 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 97068 97068 97068 Dividends declared to perpetual preference shareholders 14528 14528 14528 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 9487 9487 Issue of ordinary shares 2 24893 24895 24895 Gain on transfer of non-controlling interests 1423 1423 39 1384 Movement of treasury shares 19037 74034 54997 54997 Transfer from capital reserve account 175631 175631 Transfer from other reserves 14707 5989 8718 At 31 March 2015 180 151 1171441 37960 11186 1283 10687 778023 1913617 160456 2074073 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 143 Annual financial statements Accounting policies and extent of risks have been included Investec performs a reassessment of Basis of presentation in sections marked as audited in the risk consolidation whenever there is a change in management report on pages 32 to 117. the substance of the relationship between These annual financial statements have Investec and an investee.
A change in the been prepared to present the financial Certain disclosures required under IAS24 ownership interest of a subsidiary, without position and results of Investec plc and Related Party Disclosures have been a loss of control, is accounted for as an its subsidiaries as if the contractual included in the section marked as audited arrangements which create the DLC equity transaction.
Investec also holds in the remuneration report in Investecs structure did not exist and, with this investments, for example private equity integrated annual report.
exception and the exclusion of certain other investments, which give rise to significant, remuneration and related party disclosures, but not majority, voting rights.
Assessing are prepared in accordance with these voting rights and whether Investec Restatements and International Financial Reporting Standards controls these entities requires judgement IFRS.
For an understanding of the financial presentation of that affects the date at which subsidiaries position, results and cash flows of the are consolidated or deconsolidated.
information Investec DLC group, the user is referred to Entities, other than subsidiary undertakings, Investecs integrated annual report.
The group has adopted the following new in which the group exercises significant or revised standards from 1 April 2014: Investec DLC group consists of two influence over operating and financial separate legal entities, being Investec plc policies, are treated as interests in associated IFRIC 21 Levies and Investec Limited, that operate under a undertakings.
Interests in associated dual listed company DLC structure.
The The interpretation clarifies that the undertakings are accounted for using the effect of the DLC structure is that Investec obligating event that gives rise to a liability equity method from the date that significant plc and its subsidiaries and Investec Limited to pay a levy is the activity that triggers the influence commences until the date that and its subsidiaries operate together as payment of the levy and an entity does significant influence ceases.
In circumstances not have a constructive obligation to pay a single economic entity, with neither where interests in associated undertakings or assuming a dominant role, and accordingly a levy that will be triggered in a future joint venture holdings arise in which the group period as a result of being economically are reported as a single reporting entity has no strategic intention, these investments compelled to continue to operate in that under IFRS.
are classified as venture capital holdings and future period.
The new interpretation are designated as held at fair value through These group annual financial statements are has been applied retrospectively and its prepared in accordance with International profit or loss.
application has caused the recognition date Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, for the Financial Services Compensation For equity accounted associates, the as adopted by the European Union EU Scheme FSCS levy to be changed from consolidated annual financial statements which comply with IFRSs as issued by 31 December prior to the beginning of the include the attributable share of the the International Accounting Standards relevant levy year to the following 1April.
results and reserves of associated Board IASB.
At 31 March 2015, IFRS The group has accordingly restated the undertakings.
The groups interests in as endorsed by the EU are identical prior periods to reflect this change and associated undertakings are included in the in all material respects to current IFRS additional details are shown in note 57. consolidated balance sheet at cost plus applicable to the group, with differences Other standards became effective during the post-acquisition changes in the groups only in the effective dates of certain the year which did not have an impact on share of the net assets of the associate.
However, the group has early the group.
adopted these relevant standards to ensure The consolidated balance sheet reflects compliance with both frameworks.
the associated undertakings net of accumulated impairment losses.
The group annual financial statements have Basis of consolidation been prepared on a historical cost basis, All intergroup balances, transactions and As discussed above, these annual financial except for investment properties, availableunrealised gains and losses within the statements have been prepared to present for-sale investments, derivative financial 4 4 group that do not reflect an impairment to the financial position and results of Investec instruments, financial assets and financial the asset, are eliminated in full regarding plc and its subsidiaries as if the contractual liabilities held at fair value through profit subsidiaries and to the extent of the interest arrangements which create the DLC or loss or subject to hedge accounting, structure did not exist.
and liabilities for pension fund surpluses and deficits that have been measured at All subsidiaries or structured entities are fairvalue.
consolidated when the group controls an Segmental reporting investee.
The group controls an investee if it is exposed to, or has rights to variable An operating segment is a component Presentation of returns from its involvement with the of the group that engages in business investee and has the ability to affect those information activities from which it may earn revenues returns through its power over the investee.
and incur expenses, including revenues and The financial results of subsidiaries are Disclosure under IFRS 7 Financial expenses that relate to transactions with any included in the consolidated annual financial Instruments: Disclosures and IAS 1 of the groups other components, whose statements of the group from the date on Presentation of Financial Statements: operating results are reviewed regularly which control is obtained until the date the Capital Disclosures relating to the nature group can no longer demonstrate control.
144 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Annual financial statements Accounting policies continued by chief operating decision-makers which at each acquisition date through the The fair value of the services received in incomestatement.
respect of equity-settled share-based include members of the board and for which discrete financial information is available.
payments is determined by reference to the Any contingent consideration to be transferred fair value of the shares or share options on by the group will be recognised at fair value at The groups segmental reporting is the date of grant to the employee.
Subsequent changes to presented in the form of a business of the share-based payment, together the fair value of the contingent consideration, analysis.
The business analysis is with a corresponding increase in equity, is which is deemed to be an asset or liability, presented in terms of the groups three recognised in the income statement over will be recognised in accordance with IAS39 principal business divisions, namely, Asset the period the service conditions of the either in the income statement or as a change Management, Wealth & Investment and grant are met with the amount changing to other comprehensive income.
according to the number of awards contingent consideration is classified as equity, expected to vest.
The cumulative expense Group costs that are disclosed separately it will not be remeasured until it is finally settled recognised for equity-settled transactions largely relate to group brand and marketing within equity.
at each reporting date until the vesting costs and a portion of executive and date reflects the extent to which the Goodwill is initially measured at cost, support functions which are associated vesting period has expired and the groups with group-led activities.
These costs are being the excess of the aggregate of the best estimate of the number of equity consideration transferred and the amount not incurred by the operating divisions and instruments that will ultimately vest.
are necessary to support the operational recognised for non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and functioning of the group.
Historically, these Fair value measurements are based on numbers were reflected solely in the results liabilities assumed.
If this consideration option pricing models, taking into account and amount recognised for non-controlling of the Specialist Bank and the group have the risk-free interest rate, volatility of the now decided to reflect these separately.
interest is less than the fair values of underlying equity instrument, expected the identifiable net assets acquired, the dividends and current share prices.
discount on acquisition is recognised Where the terms of an equity-settled directly in the income statement as a gain in For further detail on the groups award are modified, the minimum expense the year of acquisition.
segmental reporting basis refer recognised in staff costs is the expense to pages 13 to 35 of the After initial recognition, goodwill is as if the terms had not been modified.
divisional review section of the measured at cost less any accumulated An additional expense is recognised for integrated annual report.
The group tests goodwill any modification which increases the total acquired in a business combination for fair value of the share-based payment impairment annually, irrespective of whether arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to Business combinations an indication of impairment exists and in the employee as measured at the date accordance with IAS 36. ofmodification.
and goodwill For the purpose of impairment testing, Business combinations are accounted goodwill acquired in a business Foreign currency for using the acquisition method.
The combination is, from the acquisition date, cost of an acquisition is measured as the allocated to each of the groups cashtransactions and foreign aggregate of the consideration transferred generating units that are expected to measured at the acquisition date fair value operations benefit from the combination.
and the amount of any prior non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business The presentation currency of the group Where goodwill forms part of a cashcombination, the group measures the nonis Pounds Sterling, being the functional generating unit and part of the operation controlling interest in the acquiree either currency of Investec plc.
within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill at fair value or at the proportionate share associated with the operation disposed of Foreign operations are subsidiaries, of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
is included in the carrying amount of the interests in associated undertakings or 4 Acquisition costs incurred are expensed 4 operation when determining the gain or loss branches of the group, the activities of immediately in the income statement.
on disposal of the operation.
which are based in a functional currency When the group acquires a business, other than that of the reporting entity.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance itassesses the financial assets and liabilities Thefunctional currency of group entities is is measured based on the relative values of assumed for appropriate classification and determined based on the primary economic the operation disposed of and the portion the designation in accordance with the environment in which the entity operates.
of the cash-generating units retained.
contractual terms, economic circumstances Foreign currency transactions are translated and pertinent conditions at the acquisition into the functional currency of the entity date.
This includes the separation of Share-based payments in which the transaction arises based on embedded derivatives in host contracts by rates of exchange ruling at the date of the acquiree.
If the business combination is achieved in The group engages in equity-settled shareAt each balance sheet date foreign currency stages, the acquisition date fair value of based payments in respect of services items are translated as follows: the groups previously held equity interest received from employees.
in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 145 Annual financial statements Accounting policies continued Monetary items other than monetary the related services are performed.
Revenue is investment properties which is included items that form part of the net measured at the fair value of the consideration in investment income, operating lease investment in a foreign operation are received or receivable.
income, income from interests in translated using closing rates, with associated undertakings, income from Interest income is recognised in the gains and losses recognised in the assurance activities and revenue from income statement using the effective incomestatement consolidated private equity investments.
Fees charged on lending Operating costs associated with these Exchange differences arising on transactions are included in the effective investments are included in operating monetary items that form part of the yield calculation to the extent that they costs in the income statement.
net investment in a foreign operation form an integral part of the effective interest are determined using closing rates and rate yield, but exclude those fees earned recognised as a separate component for a separately identifiable significant act, Fair value measurement of equity foreign currency translation which are recognised upon completion of reserve upon consolidation and is the act.
Fees and commissions charged Fair value is the price that would be recognised in the income statement inlieu of interest are recognised as income received to sell an asset or paid to transfer upon disposal of the net investment as part of the effective interest rate on the a liability in an orderly transaction between underlyingloan.
market participants at the measurement Non-monetary items that are measured date in the principal or, in its absence, The effective interest method is based at historical costs are translated using the most advantageous market to which the exchange rates ruling at the date of on the estimated life of the underlying the group has access at that date.
instrument and where this estimate is not thetransaction.
Thefair value of a liability reflects its nonreadily available, the contractual life.
On consolidation, the results and financial Fee and commission income includes fees position of foreign operations are translated When available, the group measures the earned from providing advisory services as into the presentation currency of the group fair value of an instrument using the quoted well as portfolio management and includes as follows: price in an active market for that instrument.
rental income from investment properties.
Assets and liabilities for each balance Investment advisory and management A market is regarded as active if sheet presented are translated at fees are accrued over the period to which transactions for the asset or liability take the closing rate at the date of the the income relates.
Performance fees are place with sufficient frequency and volume balancesheet recognised when they become receivable.
to provide pricing information on an No revenue is recognised if there are ongoing basis.
Income and expense items are significant uncertainties regarding recovery translated at exchange rates ruling at If there is no quoted price in an active of the consideration due.
the date of the transaction market, then the group uses valuation Investment income includes income, techniques that maximise the use of All resulting exchange differences are other than margin from securities held for relevant observable inputs and minimise the recognised in other comprehensive the purpose of generating interest yield, use of unobservable inputs.
The chosen income foreign currency translation dividends and capital appreciation.
valuation technique incorporates all of the reserve, which is recognised in the factors that market participants would take income statement on disposal of the Customer flow trading income includes into account in pricing a transaction.
income from trading activities arising from foreign operation making and facilitating client activities.
If an asset or a liability measured at fair Cash flow items are translated at the value has a bid price and an ask price, Trading income arising from balance sheet exchange rates ruling at the date of then the group measures assets and long management and other trading activities thetransaction.
positions at a bid price and liabilities and consists of proprietary trading income and short positions at an ask price.
other gains and losses arising from balance sheet management.
4 4 The group classifies disclosed fair values Revenue recognition according to a hierarchy that reflects the Trading profit includes the unrealised profit Revenue consists of interest income, significance of observable market inputs.
on trading portfolios, which are marked-tofee and commission income, investment A transfer is made between the hierarchy market daily.
Equity investments received in income, trading income arising from when the inputs have changed or there lieu of corporate finance fees are included in customer flow, trading income arising has been a change in valuation method.
from balance sheet management Transfers are deemed to occur at the end of each semi-annual reporting period.
and other trading activities and other Dividend income is recognised when operatingincome.
the groups right to receive payment isestablished.
Revenue is recognised when it can be reliably Financial instruments measured and it is probable that the economic Included in other operating income benefits will flow to the entity.
Revenue related is incidental rental income, gains on Financial instruments are initially recognised to provision of services is recognised when realisation of properties other than at their fair value.
For financial assets or financial liabilities not held at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that 146 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Annual financial statements Accounting policies continued are directly attributable to the acquisition contract as a financial instrument at fair to discount the future cash flows for the or issue of the financial assets or financial value through profit or loss.
purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
liabilities are included in the initial fair value.
Held-to-maturity financial Securitisation credit All other transaction costs are recorded in assets investment and trading the income statement immediately.
activities exposures Held-to-maturity financial assets are nonRegular way purchase and sales derivative financial instruments with fixed The group makes use of securitisation transactions in respect of financial assets or determinable payments and maturity vehicles as a source of finance, as a means that require delivery of a financial instrument dates which the group has the intention of risk transfer and to leverage returns within the time frame established by market and ability to hold to maturity.
Subsequent through the retention of equity tranches convention are recorded at trade date.
to initial recognition, held-to-maturity in low default rate portfolios.
The group assets are measured at amortised cost Financial assets and liabilities predominantly focuses on the securitisation using the effective interest method, less of residential and commercial mortgages held at fair value through profit impairmentlosses.
The group also or loss trades in structured credit investments.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking Financial instruments held at fair value into account any discount or premium on The structured entities are consolidated through profit or loss include all instruments acquisition and fees that are an integral under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial classified as held-for-trading and those part of the effective interest rate.
The Statements when the group has exposure instruments designated as held at fair value amortisation is included in interest income to or rights to, variable returns from its through profit or loss.
The losses arising involvement with the investee and has the Financial instruments classified as heldfrom impairment of such investments are ability to affect those returns through its for-trading or designated as held at fair recognised in the income statement.
value through profit or loss are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with Loans and advances that are originated Loans and receivables are transferred to structured entities, and changes in fair value recognised in the Loans and receivables are non-derivative the structured entities issue debt securities income statement.
Financial instruments financial assets with fixed or determinable are classified as trading when they are held to external investors to fund the purchase payments that are not quoted in an active of the securitised assets.
When the group with the intention of short-term disposal, market and exclude the following: consolidates the structured entity, the held with the intention of generating shortgroup recognises the assets and liabilities term profit, or are derivatives which are Those that the group intends to trade in, on a gross basis.
When the group does not designated as part of effective hedges.
which are classified as held-for-trading not consolidate the structured entity, the Financial instruments designated as held and those that the group designates at securitised assets are derecognised and at fair value through profit or loss are fair value through profit or loss designated as such on initial recognition only any position still held by the group in the structured entity is reflected.
of the instrument and remain in this Those that the group designates as classification until derecognition.
available-for-sale Available-for-sale financial Financial assets and liabilities are Those for which the group may not assets designated as held at fair value through recover substantially all of its initial Available-for-sale financial assets are profit or loss onlyif: investment, other than because of credit those which are designated as such or do deterioration, which is accounted for as It eliminates or significantly reduces not qualify to be classified as designated available-for-sale instruments.
at fair value through profit or loss, helda measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise to-maturity, or loans and receivables.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and arise from measuring assets or liabilities They include strategically held equity receivables are measured at amortised instruments that are not interests in or recognising the gains and losses on cost, using the effective interest method, them on different bases: or associated undertakings, joint ventures or less impairment losses.
The effective 4 4 subsidiaries of the group.
Further, certain interest rate represents the rate that exactly A group of financial assets, financial debt instruments that are held at fair value discounts future projected cash flows liabilities or both is managed and its due to being quoted on an active market, through the expected life of the financial performance is evaluated on a fair value which are neither actively traded nor heldinstrument, to the net carrying amount of basis in accordance with a documented to-maturity instruments, are classified as the financial instrument.
Included in the risk management or investment strategy available-for-sale financial assets.
calculation of the effective interest rate is and information about the group is any discount or premium on acquisition and provided internally on that basis to the Financial assets classified as availablefees that are an integral part of the effective groups key management personnel: and for-sale are measured at fair value with interest rate.
unrealised gains and losses recognised A contract contains one or more directly in other comprehensive income Losses arising from impairment of such embedded derivatives which in the available-for-sale reserve.
When investments are recognised in the income significantly modifies the cash flows that the asset is disposed of, the cumulative statement line impairment losses on loans would be required by the contract and gain or loss previously recognised in other and advances.
is not clearly prohibited from separation comprehensive income is recognised in the from the host contract and the group income statement.
Interest earned while Interest on impaired financial assets is has designated the entire hybrid holding available-for-sale financial assets recognised using the rate of interest used Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 147 Annual financial statements Accounting policies continued reserve ensures that minimum regulatory is reported as interest income using the Impairments of financial assets effective interest rate.
Dividends earned provisioning requirements are maintained.
held at amortised cost while holding available-for-sale financial Financial assets carried at amortised cost Derecognition of financial assets are recognised in the income are impaired if there is objective evidence statement when the right of payment has assets and liabilities that the group would not receive cash been established.
A financial asset, or a portion thereof, is flows according to the original contractual derecognised when the groups rights to If an available-for-sale instrument is terms.
Financial assets are assessed for cash flows have expired or when the group determined to be impaired, the respective impairment at each balance sheet date has transferred its rights to cash flows cumulative unrealised losses previously and when an indicator of impairment relating to the financial assets and either recognised in other comprehensive income isidentified.
a the group has transferred substantially are included in the income statement in the The test for impairment is based either all the risk and rewards associated with the period in which the impairment is identified.
on specific financial assets or collectively financial assets or b the group has neither Impairments on available-for-sale equity on a portfolio of similar, homogeneous transferred nor retained substantially all instruments are not reversed once assets.
Over and above individual collective the risks and rewards associated with the recognised in the income statement.
financial assets but has transferred control impairments raised at specific portfolio levels, the group recognises a collective of the asset.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of impairment allowance at a central level a debt instrument classified as availableA financial liability is derecognised when it within the Specialist Banking business for-sale increases and the increase can be is extinguished, that is when the obligation segment that takes into account macroobjectively related to an event occurring is discharged, cancelled or expired.
When economic factors, mainly driven by data after the impairment loss was recognised an existing financial liability is replaced or related to the prevailing credit markets in the income statement, the impairment modified with substantially different terms, and which indicate incurred but not such a replacement or modification is loss is reversed, limited to the impairment specifically identified losses across the value previously recognised in the treated as a derecognition of the original loan portfolios that is, exposures in all liability and the recognition of a new incomestatement.
The difference in the respective identified as impaired are excluded from the Financial liabilities carrying amounts is recognised in the collectiveassessment.
Financial liabilities are classified as nonImpairments are credited to an allowance trading, held-for-trading or designated as Reclassification of financial account which is carried against the held at fair value through profit or loss.
instruments carrying value of financial assets.
Interest Non-trading liabilities are recorded at continues to be accrued on the reduced The group may reclassify, in certain rare amortised cost applying the effective carrying amount based on the original circumstances, non-derivative financial interest method.
effective interest rate of the asset.
Loans assets out of the held-for-trading category together with the associated allowance and into the available-for-sale, loans Held-for-trading liabilities or liabilities are written off when there is no realistic and receivables, or held-to-maturity designated as held at fair value through prospect of future recovery and all collateral categories.
It may also reclassify, in certain profit or loss are measured at fair value.
has been realised or transferred to circumstances, financial instruments out thegroup.
of the available-for-sale category and All changes in fair value of financial liabilities into the loans and receivables category.
are recognised in the income statement.
An allowance for impairment is only Reclassifications are recorded at fair reversed when there is objective evidence Day 1 profit or loss value at the date of reclassification, which that the credit quality has improved to the becomes the new amortised cost.
When the transaction price differs from extent that there is reasonable assurance of the fair value of other observable current timely collection of principal and interest in Derivative instruments market transactions in the same instrument terms of the original contractual agreement.
4 All derivative instruments of the group 4 or based on the valuation technique are recorded on the balance sheet at whose variables include only data from The impairment is calculated as the fair value.
Positive and negative fair observable markets, the difference difference between the carrying value of values are reported as assets and between the transaction price and fair the asset and the expected cash flows .
value is recognised immediately in the including net expected proceeds on incomestatement.
realisation of collateral discounted at Derivative positions are entered into either the original effective rate.
Impairments of for trading purposes or as part of the In cases where fair value is determined financial assets held at amortised cost are groups asset and liability management using data which is not observable, the recognised in the income statement.
activities to manage exposures to interest difference between the transaction price rate and foreign currency risks.
Both and model value is only recognised in the To cater for any shortfall between regulatory realised and unrealised profit and losses income statement when the inputs become provision requirements in the respective arising on derivatives are recognised in the observable, or when the instrument jurisdictions and impairments based on the income statement as part of trading income is derecognised or over the life of the principles above, a transfer is made from other than circumstances in which cash transaction.
distributable to non-distributable reserves, flow hedging is applied as detailed in the being the regulatory general risk reserve.
The non-distributable regulatory risk 148 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Annual financial statements Accounting policies continued Derivative instruments transacted as The hedge effectiveness is assessed derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or economic hedges which do not qualify on an ongoing basis and determined exercised: when the hedged item matures actually to have been highly effective for hedge accounting and derivatives that or is sold or repaid: when a forecasted throughout the financial reporting are entered into for trading purposes are transaction is no longer deemed highly periods for which the hedge was treated in the same way as instruments that probable or when the designation as a designated.
For qualifying fair value hedges, the change Credit derivatives are entered into for Embedded derivatives in fair value of the hedging instrument trading purposes.
Credit derivatives are To the extent that a derivative may be is recognised in the income statement.
initially recognised at their fair values, embedded in a hybrid contract and the Changes in fair value of the hedged item being the transaction price of the hybrid contract is not carried at fair value that is attributable to the hedged risk are derivative.
Subsequently the derivatives with changes in fair value recorded in the also recognised in the income statement.
are carried at fair value, with movements income statement, the embedded derivative in fair value through profit and loss, For qualifying cash flow hedges in respect is separated from the host contract and based on the current market price or of non-financial assets and liabilities, accounted for as a standalone derivative if remeasured price.
The counterparty risk the change in fair value of the hedging and only if: from derivative transactions is taken into instrument, relating to the effective portion account when reporting the fair value of The economic characteristics and is initially recognised directly in other derivative positions.
The adjustment to comprehensive income in the cash flow risks of the embedded derivative are the fair value isknown as the credit value hedge reserve and is included in the not closely related to the economic adjustment CVA.
initial cost of any asset liability recognised characteristics and risks of the host or in all other cases released to the contract Hedge accounting income statement when the hedged firm The group applies either fair value or cash A separate instrument with the same commitment or forecasted transaction flow hedge or hedge of net investments in terms as the embedded derivative would affects net profit.
If the forecast transaction foreign operations accounting when the meet the definition of a derivative.
or firm commitment is no longer expected transactions meet the specified hedge to occur, the balance included in other accounting criteria.
To qualify for hedge Offsetting of financial assets comprehensive income is reclassified accounting treatment, the group ensures and liabilities to the income statement immediately that all of the following conditions are met: and recognised in trading income from Financial assets and liabilities are offset balance sheet management and other At inception of the hedge, the group when there is both an intention to settle tradingactivities.
formally documents the relationship on a net basis or simultaneously and between the hedging instrument s a currently enforceable legal right to For qualifying cash flow hedges in respect and hedged item s including the offsetexists.
of financial assets and liabilities, the change risk management objectives and the in fair value of the hedging instrument, strategy in undertaking the hedge Issued debt and equity financial which represents an effective hedge, is transaction.
Also at the inception of the instruments initially recognised in other comprehensive hedge relationship, a formal assessment Financial instruments issued by the group income and is released to the income is undertaken to ensure the hedging statement in the same period during which are classified as liabilities if they contain a instrument is expected to be highly contractual obligation to deliver cash or the relevant financial asset or liability affects effective in offsetting the designated risk the income statement.
Any ineffective another financial asset.
Ahedge is expected portion of the hedge is immediately to be highly effective if the changes Financial instruments issued by the group recognised in the income statement.
in fair value or cash flows attributable are classified as equity where they confer to the hedged risk during the period Qualifying hedges of a net investment in on the holder a residual interest in the for which the hedge is designated are a foreign operation including a hedge of a group, and the group has no obligation expected to offset in a range of 80% 4 4 monetary item that is accounted for as part to deliver either cash or another financial to125% of the net investment are accounted for in a asset to the holder.
The components of For cash flow hedges, a forecasted way similar to cash flow hedges.
Changes compound issued financial instruments transaction that is the subject of the in the fair value of the hedging instrument are accounted for separately with the hedge must be highly probable and relating to the effective portion of the hedge liability component separated first and any must present an exposure to variation are recognised in other comprehensive residual amount being allocated to the in cash flows that could ultimately affect income while any gains or losses relating equitycomponent.
profit and loss to the ineffective portion are recognised in Equity instruments issued by subsidiaries of the income statement.
On disposal of the The effectiveness of the hedge can be Investec plc are recorded as non-controlling foreign operation, the cumulative value of reliably measured, i. e. the fair value or interests on the balance sheet.
any such gain or loss recorded in other cash flows of the hedged item that are comprehensive income is reclassified to the attributable to the hedged risk and the Equity instruments are initially measured net income statement.
fair value of the hedging instrument can of directly attributable issue costs.
be reliably measured Hedge accounting is discontinued when it Treasury shares represent issued equity is determined that the instrument ceases repurchased by the group which has to be highly effective as a hedge: when the Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 149 Annual financial statements Accounting policies continued not been cancelled.
Treasury shares are less cumulative amortisation and the best The current and comparative annual deducted from shareholders equity and estimate of expenditure required to settle depreciation rates for each class of property represent the purchase consideration, any financial obligation arising as a result and equipment is as follows: of the guarantee.
Subsequent to initial including directly attributable costs.
Where Computer and related treasury shares are subsequently sold measurement all changes in the balance equipment 20% 33% sheet carrying value are recognised in the or reissued, net proceeds received are income statement.
Motor vehicles 20% 25% Dividends on ordinary shares are Instalment credit, leases and Furniture and fittings 10% 20% recognised as a deduction from equity at rental agreements the earlier of payment date or the date that Freehold buildings 2% A finance lease is a lease that transfers it is approved by Investec plc shareholders.
substantially all of the risks and rewards Leasehold property and improvements incidental to ownership of an asset.
Sale and repurchase Leasehold improvements depreciation Anoperating lease is a lease other than a agreements including rates are determined by reference to financial lease.
securities borrowing and the appropriate useful life of its separate lending Where classified as a finance lease, components, limited to the period of the amounts outstanding on these contracts, lease.
Leasehold property depreciation Where securities are sold subject to a net of unearned finance charges, are rates are determined by reference to the commitment to repurchase them, at included in loans and advances where the period of the lease.
a fixed price or a selling price plus a group is the lessor and included in liabilities lenders return, they remain on balance No depreciation is provided onfreehold where the group is the lessee.
Proceeds received are recorded land.
However, similar to otherpropertycharges on finance leases and instalment as a liability on balance sheet under related assets, it is subject toimpairment credit transactions are credited or debited repurchase agreements and cash testing when an indication of to income in proportion to the capital collateral on securities lent.
balances outstanding at the rate implicit in that are purchased under a commitment the agreement.
to resell the securities at a future date Routine maintenance and service costs for are not recognised on the balance sheet.
group assets are expensed as incurred.
Where classified as operating leases, The consideration paid is recognised Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised rentals payable receivable are charged as an asset under reverse repurchase if it is probable that future economic credited in the income statement on a agreements and cash collateral on benefits associated with the item will flow to straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals are accrued to the income statement when incurred.
The difference between the sale and repurchase prices is treated as interest Investment property expense and is accrued over the life of the agreement using the effective Property and equipment Properties held for capital appreciation or interestmethod.
rental yield are classified as investment Property and equipment are recorded at properties.
Investment properties are Securities borrowing transactions that are cost less accumulated depreciation and carried at fair value, with fair value gains and not cash collateralised are not included in impairments.
losses recognised in the income statement the balance sheet.
Securities lending and in investment income.
Cost is the cash equivalent paid or the fair borrowing transactions which are cash value of the consideration given to acquire collateralised are accounted for in the same Fair value of investment property is manner as securities sold or purchased an asset and includes other expenditures calculated by taking into account the that are directly attributable to the subject to repurchase commitments.
expected rental stream associated acquisition of the asset.
with the property, and is supported by 4 4 Financial guarantees marketevidence.
Depreciation is provided on the depreciable Financial guarantee contracts issued by amount of each component on a straightthe group are those contracts that require line basis over the expected useful life of a payment to be made to reimburse the Trading properties the asset.
holder for a loss it incurs because the Trading properties are carried at the lower specified debtor fails to make a payment The depreciable amount related to each when due, in accordance with the terms of cost and net realisable value.
asset is determined as the difference of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantees between the cost and the residual value are initially recognised at fair value, of the asset.
The residual value is the adjusted for the transaction costs that Intangible assets estimated amount, net of disposal costs are directly attributable to the issuance of that the group would currently obtain from Intangible assets are recorded at cost less theguarantee.
the disposal of an asset in similar age and accumulated amortisation and impairments.
condition as expected at the end of its Subsequent to initial recognition, the useful life.
For intangible assets with a finite life, liability under each guarantee is measured amortisation is provided on the depreciable at the higher of the amount recognised 150 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Annual financial statements Accounting policies continued amount of each intangible asset on a its tax base, except where such temporary Borrowing costs straight-line basis over the expected useful differences arise from: life of the asset currently three to twenty Borrowing costs that are directly The initial recognition of goodwill years.
The depreciable amount related attributable to property developments to each intangible asset is determined as which take a substantial period of time to The initial recognition of an asset or the difference between the cost and the develop are capitalised.
liability in a transaction which is not a residual value of the asset.
business combination and at the time of the transaction has no effect on the Provisions, contingent income statement or taxable profit Impairment of liabilities and contingent In respect of temporary differences non-financial assets associated with the investments in assets subsidiaries and interests in associated At each balance sheet date the group undertakings, where the timing of the Provisions are recognised when the reviews the carrying value of non-financial reversal of the temporary differences can group has a present obligation legal or assets, other than investment property for be controlled and it is probable that the constructive as a result of a past event: indication of impairment.
The recoverable temporary differences will not reverse in it is probable that an outflow of resources amount, being the higher of fair value the foreseeable future.
embodying economic benefits will be less cost of disposal and value in use, is required to settle the obligation and a determined for any assets for which an Deferred tax assets or liabilities are reliable estimate can be made of the indication of impairment is identified.
If the measured using the tax rates that have amount of the obligation.
The expense recoverable amount of an asset is less than been enacted or substantively enacted at relating to a provision is presented its carrying value, the carrying value of the the balance sheet date.
asset is reduced to its recoverable value.
in the income statement net of any Deferred tax assets are recognised to the reimbursement.
Contingent assets and Impairment losses are recognised as extent that it is probable that future taxable contingent liabilities are not recognised on an expense in the income statement in profit will be available against which the balance sheet.
the period in which they are identified.
deferred tax asset can be utilised.
Reversals of impairment losses are Items recognised directly in other recognised in income in the period in which Standards and comprehensive income are net of related the reversals are identified, to the extent current and deferred taxation.
that the carrying value of the asset does not interpretations issued exceed the amount that would have been but not yet effective calculated without impairment.
Employee benefits The following standards and interpretations, which have been issued but are not yet The group operates various defined Trust and fiduciary effective, are applicable to the group.
contribution schemes and two closed defined These standards and interpretations activities benefit schemes.
have not been applied in these annual In respect of the defined contribution scheme, The group acts as a trustee or in other financial statements.
The group intends all employer contributions are charged to fiduciary capacities that result in the to comply with these standards from the income as incurred, in accordance with the holding, placing or managing of assets for effectivedates.
rules of the scheme, and included under the account of and at the risk of clients.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments As these are not assets of the group, they IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was The assets of the defined benefit schemes are not recognised on the balance sheet issued in July 2014 and will replace are measured at their market value at the but are included at market value as part of certain key elements of IAS 39.
The balance sheet date and the liabilities of the assets under administration.
4 4 schemes are measured using the projected mandatory effective date for IFRS 9 is from 1 January2018 with early adoption unit credit method.
The discount rate used to measure the schemes liabilities is the current permitted.
However, IFRS 9 has not yet Taxation and deferred rate of return on an AA corporate bond at the been endorsed by the European Union.
balance sheet date of equivalent term and Thetwo key elements that would impact taxation currency to the liabilities.
The extent to which the groups accounting policies include: Current tax payable is provided on the the schemes assets exceed or fall short of the Classification and measurement of amount expected to be payable on schemes liabilities is shown as a surplus to financial assets and financial liabilities taxable profit at rates that are enacted or the extent that it is considered recoverable or the standard requires that all financial substantively enacted and applicable to the deficit in the balance sheet.
assets be classified as either held at fair relevant period.
Actuarial gains and losses related to the value or amortised cost.
The amortised Deferred taxation is provided using the defined benefit asset or liability are recognised cost classification is only permitted immediately directly in other comprehensive balance sheet method on temporary where it is held within a business model income.
differences between the carrying amount of where the underlying cash flows are an asset or liability in the balance sheet and held in order to collect contractual cash The group has no liabilities for other postretirement benefits.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 151
