Investec plc in perspective Overview of the activities of Investec plc continued What we do...
Specialist Banking The bank operates as a specialist bank, focusing on three key areas of activity: Investment activities, Corporate and Institutional Banking activities and Private Banking activities.
Each business provides specialised products and services todefined target markets.
Our head office also provides certain group-wide integrating functions including risk management, information technology, finance, investor relations, marketing, human resources and organisational development.
The head office is also responsible for our central funding.
High-income and highnet worth Corporates government institutional clients privateclients Investment Corporate and Institutional Private Banking activities Banking activities activities Principal investments Treasury and trading services Transactional banking and foreign exchange Property investment and Specialised lending, funds and debt capital fund management markets Lending Advisory and institutional research, sales Deposits and trading Australia Australia UK and Europe Hong Kong Hong Kong UK and Europe India UK and Europe USA Through strong partnerships, Our principal investments Corporate and Institutional Banking activities provides business in Hong Kong a wide range of specialist products, services and we have created a community of clients who largely focuses on pre-IPO solutions to select corporate clients, public sector investment opportunities bodies and institutions.
The division undertakes the bulk thrive on being part of an entrepreneurial and in Chinese companies with of Investecs wholesale debt, structuring, proprietary good track records, while our trading, capital markets and derivatives business.
Our target market includes high business in the UK focuses The investment banking and securities business apart on opportunistic investment net worth individuals, active of the Corporate and Institutional Banking division wealthy entrepreneurs, highalongside credibleclients.
1 1 engages in a range of investment banking activities and income professionals, owner Our Property business positions itself as an integrated business focused on managers in mid-market focuses on property fund local client delivery with international access.
We target companies and sophisticated management and property clients seeking a highly customised service, which we investors.
offer through a combination of domestic depth and expertise within each geography and a client-centric approach.
Our activities include: advisory, institutional research, sales and trading.
Integrated systems and infrastructure Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 5
