Annual financial statements Independent auditor's report to the members of Investec plc We have audited the accompanying conducted our audit in accordance with Other matter special purpose annual financial International Standards on Auditing.
statements of Investecplc for the year Those standards require that we comply Investec plc has prepared a separate set of with ethical requirements and plan and ended 31March2015 which comprise statutory financial statements for the year the consolidated income statement, perform the audit to obtain reasonable ended 31 March 2015 in accordance with assurance about whether the annual consolidated statement of comprehensive both International Financial Reporting income, consolidated balance sheet, financial statements are free from Standards as adopted by the European materialmisstatement.
consolidated cash flow statement, Union and International Financial Reporting consolidated statement of changes in Standards as issued by the International An audit involves performing procedures to equity, and notes 1 to 57.
Thespecial Accounting Standards Board and obtain audit evidence about the amounts purpose financial statements have been Companies Act 2006 on which we issued a and disclosures in the annual financial prepared by the directors in accordance separate auditors report to the statements.
The procedures selected with the accounting policies set out on shareholders of Investec plc dated depend on the auditors judgement, pages 144 to 152.
10 June 2015. including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the annual Under the contractual arrangements financial statements, whether due to fraud implementing the dual listed companies or error.
In making those risk assessments, structure, Investec plc and Investec we consider internal controls relevant to Ernst & Young LLP Limited effectively form a single economic the companys preparation of the annual London enterprise, in which the economic and financial statements in order to design voting rights of shareholders are equalised.
19 June 2015 audit procedures that are appropriate In accordance with this structure the in the circumstances, but not for the appropriate presentation under International purpose of expressing an opinion on the Notes: Financial Reporting Standards is achieved effectiveness of the companys internal 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the by combining the results and the financial control.
Our audit also includes evaluating Investec plc website is the responsibility position of both companies using merger the appropriateness of accounting policies of the directors: the work carried accounting principles.
Those combined used and the reasonableness of accounting out by the auditors does not involve consolidated annual financial statements estimates made by management, as well consideration of these matters and, are prepared separately so as to show as evaluating the overall presentation of the accordingly, the auditors accept no a true and fair view in accordance with annual financial statements.
responsibility for any changes that may International Financial Reporting Standards.
have occurred to the annual financial We believe that the audit evidence we have As explained in the accounting policies, statements since they were initially obtained is sufficient and appropriate to these special purpose annual financial presented on the website.
provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Legislation in the United Kingdom statements have been prepared to present the financial position, results and cash flows governing the preparation and dissemination of annual financial of Investec plc and its subsidiaries.
For the Opinion avoidance of doubt, they exclude Investec statements may differ from legislation inother jurisdictions.
In our opinion, the special purpose financial statements ofInvestec plc for the year ended 31March2015 are prepared, in all Directors responsibility material respects, in accordance with the accounting policies.
for the annual financial statements Basis of accounting The directors are responsible for the 4 4 preparation of these annual financial andrestriction on use statements in accordance with the Without modifying our opinion, we draw accounting policies, and for such internal attention to the accounting policies, control as the directors determine is which describes the basis of accounting.
necessary to enable the preparation of Thespecial purpose financial statements the special purpose financial statements are prepared to present the financial that are free from material misstatement, position and results of Investecplc and whether due to fraud or error.
its directly owned subsidiaries as if the contractual arrangements which create the DLC structure did not exist.
As a result, Auditors responsibility the special purpose financial statements may not be suitable for another purpose.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion Our auditors report is intended solely for on these special purpose financial the board of Investecplc and should not statements based on our audit.
We be used by parties other than the board of Investec plc.
138 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015
