Our Governance Other Statutory Statement of Directors Responsibilities Under applicable law and regulations, the directors In respect of the Annual Report and are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, the Financial Statements Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report The directors are responsible for preparing the and Corporate Governance Statement that complies Annual Report and the group and parent company with that law and those regulations.
financial statements in accordance with applicable The directors are responsible for the maintenance and law and regulations.
integrity of the corporate and financial information Company law requires the directors to prepare included on the companys website.
Legislation in group and parent company financial statements the UK governing the preparation and dissemination for each financial year.
Under that law they are of financial statements may differ from legislation in required to prepare the group financial statements other jurisdictions.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Responsibility statement of the directors in applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK respect of the annual financial report Accounting Standards.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements, prepared in accordance the financial statements unless they are satisfied with the applicable set of accounting standards, that they give a true and fair view of the state of give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, affairs of the group and parent company and of their financial position and profit or loss of the company profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the and the undertakings included in the consolidation group and parent company financial statements, the taken as a whole: and directors are required to: the Directors report includes a fair review of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply development and performance of the business and them consistently: the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, make judgements and estimates that are together with a description of the principal risks reasonable and prudent: and uncertainties that they face.
for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs We consider the annual report and accounts, taken as adopted by the EU: as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders for the parent company financial statements, state to assess the groups position and performance, whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have business model and strategy.
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD financial statements: and Mike Humphrey prepare the financial statements on the going Chairman concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will 29 February 2016 continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
com 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:02 PM Deliver To deliver attractive financial returns from our assets 94 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:02 PM Our Financials Group Notes Our Financials Independent auditors report 96 Group Primary Statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 99 Did you know that Consolidated statement of financial position 100 Consolidated statement... Modern Biosciences plc, the Groups of cash flows 101 Consolidated statement of drug-discovery subsidiary, achieved changes in equity 102 Group Notes three developmental milestones in its Notes to the consolidated agreement with Janssen Biotech, Inc. financial statements 103 Company Statements in 2015, triggering gross payments Company balance sheet 135 totalling 8.0m?
The goal of the Statement of changes in equity 136 Notes to the Company collaboration is to develop new drugs financial statements 137 Company information IBC for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and the agreement could be worth up to 176m in upfront and milestone payments in addition to future royalties.
