OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the year ended 31st December 2015 requires an estimation of the future contributions receivable and an BASIS OF PREPARATION allocation over future service periods.
Compliance with IFRS To provide relief, changes were made to IAS 19.
These allow The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared contributions that are linked to service, but that do not vary with the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as length of employee service eg a fixed % of salary, to be deducted adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU and from the cost of benefits earned in the period that the service is interpretations issued by the IFRS interpretations Committee IFRS IC provided.
Therefore many entities will be able to but not be required and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to Companies reporting under continue accounting for employee contributions using their existing IFRSs.
The financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the accounting policy.
International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
None of these amendments had an effect on the Group financial Historical cost convention statements.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION going concern basis, under the historical cost convention, except for the following: Subsidiaries the available-for-sale financial assets, financial assets and liabilities Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the including derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value Group has control.
and The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has defined benefit pension plans where plan assets are measured at rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the fair value.
ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that EFFECTIVE IN 2015 control ceases.
The following standards have been adopted by the Group for the first The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2015: business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 and 2011-2013 of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration cycles transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a In December 2013, the IASB has made the following amendments: contingent consideration arrangement.
Identifiable assets acquired and IFRS 2 clarifies the definition of vesting condition and now liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination distinguishes between performance condition and service condition are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an  basis, the Group recognises any nonIFRS 3 clarifies that an obligation to pay contingent consideration is controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the nonclassified as financial liability or equity under the principles in IAS 32 and controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
that all non-equity contingent consideration financial and non-financial is measured at fair value at each reporting date Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
IFRS 3 clarifies that IFRS 3 does not apply to the accounting for the If a business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the formation of any joint arrangement Groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
IFRS 8 requires disclosure of the judgements made by management in aggregating operating segments and clarifies that a reconciliation of Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is segment assets must only be disclosed if segment assets are reported recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be IFRS 13 confirms that short-term receivables and payables can an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in continue to be measured at invoice amounts if the impact of discounting profit or loss or as a charge to other comprehensive income.
Contingent is immaterial consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its IFRS 13 clarifies that the portfolio exception in IFRS 13 measuring the subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
fair value of a group of financial assets and financial liabilities on a net The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any nonbasis applies to all contracts within the scope of IAS 39 or IFRS 9 controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value IAS 16 and IAS 38 clarifies how the gross carrying amount and of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of accumulated depreciation are treated where an entity measures its the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the total assets at revalued amounts of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net IAS 24 where an entity receives management personnel services from assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the a third party a management entity, the fees paid for those services must difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
be disclosed by the reporting entity, but not the compensation paid by the management entity to its employees or directors Inter-company transactions, balances, income and expenses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Accounting Defined benefit plans: Employee contributions - Amendments policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure to IAS 19 consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The amendments clarify the accounting for defined benefit plans that Transactions with non-controlling interests require employees or third parties to contribute towards the cost of the benefits.
Under the previous version of IAS 19, most entities deducted Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of the contributions from the cost of the benefits earned in the year the control are accounted for as equity transactions that is, as transactions contributions were paid.
However, the treatment under the 2011 revised with the owners in their capacity as owners.
standard was not so clear.
It could be quite complex to apply, as it 101 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED for the year ended 31st December 2015 The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the Transactions and balances relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to nonusing the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates Disposal of subsidiaries of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are When the Group ceases to have control any retained interest in the entity recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity is re-measured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, with the as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities held at The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, or loss.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously classified as available-for-sale financial assets, are included in other recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are comprehensive income.
accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets Group companies or liabilities.
The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of which This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
currency different from the presentational currency are translated into the Associates presentational currency as follows: Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated at using the equity method of accounting.
average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are the investors share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions : and of acquisition.
iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill identified comprehensive income.
On consolidation exchange differences arising from the translation of If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to other comprehensive income.
When a foreign operation is sold, such profit or loss where appropriate.
exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity income with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the and translated at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising are investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals recognised in other comprehensive income.
or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has GOODWILL ARISING ON CONSOLIDATION incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair the associate.
value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired subsidiary associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
of subsidiaries is shown separately on the Balance Sheet.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in investments in associates.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies Goodwill is not amortised but it is tested for impairment annually or more of the associates have been modified where necessary to ensure frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
impaired, and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
SEGMENT REPORTING Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal generating units, or groups of cash generating units, for the purpose of reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
Cash generating units represent the lowest level of operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources geographical and business segment combinations that the Group uses and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been for internal reporting purposes.
identified as the Chief Executive Officer.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS FOREIGN CURRENCIES Computer software Functional and presentation currency Acquired computer software licenses are capitalised on the basis of Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities the costs incurred to acquire them and bring them to use.
These costs are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Costs associated with in which the entity operates the functional currency.
maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is expense as incurred.
the Groups functional and presentational currency.
102 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Development costs that are directly associated with the production of Loans and receivables identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or that will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include the software included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months development employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant after the balance sheet date.
Capitalised development costs are amortised over their The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables estimated useful lives from the point when the asset is ready to use.
and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
Loans and The rates of amortisation are between 14% and 100% per annum.
receivables are carried at amortised cost.
Capitalised employment contract payments Available-for-sale financial assets The Group makes payments to certain key employees in recognition Available-for-sale financial assets are categorised into one of two of them signing a long-term employment contact, usually three to five categories: years.
These payments are capitalised as intangible assets since legal 1 Investments and deposits consist mainly of fixed term deposits, rights protect the expected benefits that the Group will derive from bonds and certificates of deposit.
These investments are held at fair the contracts.
value and are classified between current and non-current assets The asset recognised is then amortised over the duration of the according to the maturity date.
underlying contract within salaries and associated expenses.
2 Other investments include securities and other investments held for strategic purposes.
These investments are held at fair value unless Other a fair value cannot be accurately determined in which case they are For acquisitions completed after 1st January 2004, the business held at cost less any provision for impairment.
acquired is reviewed to identify assets that meet the definition of an intangible asset per IAS 38.
Examples of such assets include customer Interest on deposits and interest-bearing investments is credited as it contracts, expectations of business renewal and contract related is earned.
These assets are valued on the basis of the Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on present value of future cash flows and are amortised to the income the trade date - the date on which the Group commits to purchase statement over the life of the contract or their estimated economic life.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus The current maximum estimated economic life is fifteen years.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows have expired or have been transferred and the IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Goodwill and other intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life Available-for-sale assets are subsequently carried at fair value.
are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
The fair values of quoted investments are determined based upon Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment current bid price.
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs Interest on available-for-sale securities calculated using the effective to sell and value-in-use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, interest method is recognised in the income statement as part of assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately finance income.
Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
recognised in the income statement as part of finance income when the Groups right to receive payments is established.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Assets are stated at their net book amount historical cost less Offsetting financial instruments accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price of Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis cost of such assets over their estimated useful lives.
or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The legally The principal rates of depreciation are as follows: enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, Freehold land and buildings - between 0% and 2% per annum.
insolvency or bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty.
Leasehold improvements - between 10% and 20% per annum or INSURANCE BROKING RECEIVABLES AND PAYABLES over the life of the lease.
Insurance brokers act as agents in placing the insurable risks of their Furniture and office equipment - between 10% and 20% per annum.
clients with insurers and, as such, are not liable as principals for amounts Computer hardware - between 20% and 100% per annum.
In recognition of this relationship, debtors from insurance broking transactions are not included as an asset of the Motor vehicles - between 25% and 33 1 3% per annum.
Other than the receivable for fees and commissions earned on a The depreciation rates are reviewed on an annual basis.
transaction, no recognition of the insurance transaction occurs until the Group receives cash in respect of premiums or claims, at which time a FINANCIAL ASSETS corresponding liability is established in favour of the insurer or the client.
The Group classifies its financial assets as loans and receivables and In certain circumstances, the Group advances premiums, refunds or available-for-sale assets.
The classification depends upon the purpose claims to insurance underwriters or clients prior to collection.
for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
These advances are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet as part of trade receivables.
103 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED for the year ended 31st December 2015 Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on TRADE RECEIVABLES investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there foreseeable future.
is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial EMPLOYEE BENEFITS difficulties of the debtor, dispute, default or delinquency in payments are Pension obligations considered indicators that the receivable is impaired.
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes, The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an and a number of employees are members of defined contribution allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the pension schemes.
Full actuarial valuations of the Groups main defined benefit schemes are When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the carried out at least every three years.
allowance account for trade receivables.
A qualified actuary updates these valuations to 31st December each year.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS For the purposes of these annual updates, scheme assets are included Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call at market value and scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method: these liabilities are discounted with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within at the current rate of return of an AA corporate bond of equivalent borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
The defined benefit surplus or deficit is calculated as the present value of defined benefit obligations less the fair value of the Whilst held in the Groups non statutory trust accounts under appropriate plan assets and is included on the Groups balance sheet.
Surpluses are client money regulation, fiduciary funds held are controlled by the Group included only to the extent that they are recoverable through reduced and economic benefits are derived from them.
As such these funds are contributions in the future or through refunds from the schemes.
The net recognised as an asset on the Groups balance sheet.
interest on the defined benefit liability asset is included within finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses, including differences between the TRADE PAYABLES expected and actual return on scheme assets, are recognised through Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
measured at amortised cost except for deferred and contingent A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group consideration which is always measured at fair value based on the pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal underlying criteria of each transaction.
or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does BORROWINGS not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 The costs of the Groups defined contribution pension schemes are months after the balance sheet date.
Borrowings are recognised initially charged to the income statement in the period in which they fall due.
at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
They are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Share-based compensation The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based DEFERRED INCOME TAX compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year at current rates exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
of tax and takes into account deferred tax.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It nor taxable profit or loss, it is not recognised.
Deferred income tax recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
are credited to share capital at nominal value and share premium excess over nominal value when the options are exercised.
Deferred income tax is charged or credited to equity in respect of any items, which is itself either charged or credited directly to equity.
PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES Any subsequent recognition of the deferred gain or loss in the A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, whether consolidated income statement is accompanied by the corresponding legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable deferred income tax.
that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reasonable estimate can be made of the amount of the Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is obligation.
Where appropriate the Group discounts provisions to their probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the present value.
The unwinding of the provision discounting is included as temporary differences can be utilised.
an interest expense within finance costs in the income statement.
104 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss is dependent on the REVENUE nature of the item being hedged.
Fees and commissions The Group designates derivatives as either a hedge of the fair value of Fees and commissions are derived from three principal sources: a recognised asset or liability fair value hedge, a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the foreign currency risk on a firm commitment cash Insurance broking flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity net Income relating to insurance broking is accounted for at the later of investment hedges.
policy inception date or when the policy placement has been completed Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify and confirmed.
as fair value hedges and that are highly effective, are recorded in the Where there is an expectation of future servicing requirements an income statement, along with any changes in the fair value of the hedged element of income relating to the policy is deferred to cover the asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify Employee benefits as cash flow hedges and that are highly effective, are recognised in equity.
Where the forecasted transaction or firm commitment results Income relating to employee benefit services includes fees and in the recognition of a non-financial asset or of a non-financial liability, commissions.
Fees are charged on a time-cost or fixed-fee basis and the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from are recognised in line with the performance of the underlying service.
equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset Commission is recognised upon confirmation of the underlying policy or or liability.
Otherwise, amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the product.
consolidated income statement and classified as income or expense in the same periods during which the hedged firm commitment or Other services forecasted transaction affects the income statement.
Fees and other income receivable are recognised in the period to which they relate and when they can be measured with reasonable certainty.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Investment income When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, any cumulative gain or Investment income arises from the holding of cash and investments loss existing in equity at that time remains in the hedging reserves and relating to fiduciary funds and is recognised on an accruals basis.
is recognised in the income statement when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or when the committed or forecasted EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS transaction ultimately occurs.
When a committed or forecasted Exceptional items are separately identified to provide greater transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or understanding of the Groups underlying performance.
Items classified loss that was reported in equity is immediately recognised in the as exceptional items include: gains or losses arising from the sale of income statement.
businesses and investments: closure costs for businesses: restructuring costs: professional fees in respect of acquisitions: post acquisition DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION integration costs: and other credits and charges of non-recurring nature Dividends proposed or declared after the balance sheet date are not that require inclusion in order to provide additional insight into the recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.
Final dividends are underlying business performance.
Items of a non-recurring and material recognised as a charge to equity once approved and interim dividends nature are charged or credited to operating profit and are classified to are charged once paid.
the appropriate income statement headings.
To assist in the analysis and understanding of the underlying trading FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT position of the Group these items are summarised within the operating The Groups exposure to financial risks and its financial and capital profit, note 3 on page 112, under the heading of Exceptional items.
management policies are detailed in the Finance Directors Review and the Risk Management Report on pages 38 to 42.
LEASES Assets held under leasing agreements, which transfer substantially CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are included in Estimates and judgments used in preparing the financial statements are property, plant and equipment.
The capital elements of the related lease continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other obligations are included in liabilities.
The interest elements of the lease factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be obligations are charged to the income statement over the period of the reasonable.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom lease term.
equal the related actual results.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is The estimates and assumptions that have a significant effect on the depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
a Fair value estimation Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received available-for-sale is based upon quoted market prices at the balance from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
basis over the period of the lease.
The carrying value less impairment provision of trade receivables and DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair values of The Group only enters into derivative financial instruments in order to financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash hedge underlying financial and commercial exposures.
flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on similar financial instruments.
the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
105 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED for the year ended 31st December 2015 The fair value of acquired intangible assets is estimated based upon the A balance sheet provision is established in respect of such claims when present value of modelled related expected future cash flows.
it is probable that the liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
Judgement may be applied in the determination of the growth rates, discount rates and the expected cash flows.
The Group analyses its litigation exposures based on available information, including external legal consultation where appropriate, to b Impairment of assets assess its potential liability.
The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other assets that have The outcome of the currently pending and future proceedings cannot be indefinite useful lives suffered any impairment.
Other assets are reviewed predicted with certainty.
Thus, an adverse decision in a current or future for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate lawsuit could result in additional costs that are not covered, either wholly that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
or partially, under insurance policies and are in excess of the presently established provisions.
It is possible therefore that the financial position, The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is results of operations or cash flows of the Group could be materially determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of affected by the unfavourable outcome of litigation.
This determination requires significant judgment.
In making this judgment, the Group evaluates, FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS among other factors, the duration and extent to which the fair value of an The following standards and amendments to existing standards have investment is less than its cost: and the financial health of and near-term been published and are not mandatory for 31 December 2015 reporting business outlook for the investment, including factors such as industry periods, but the Group has not adopted them early.
and sector performance, changes in regional economies and operational and financing cash flow.
Accounting standards and interpretation applicable on or after c Income taxes 1 January 2016 The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision Amendments to IFRS 11 for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which The amendments to IFRS 11 clarify the accounting for the acquisition the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of of an interest in a joint operation where the activities of the operation business.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from constitute a business.
They require an investor to apply the principles of the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact business combination accounting when it acquires an interest in a joint the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such operation that constitutes a business.
This includes: d Pension obligations measuring identifiable assets and liabilities at fair value The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number expensing acquisition-related costs of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
recognising deferred tax, and The assumption used in determining the net cost or income for pension recognising the residual as goodwill, and testing this for obligations is a discount rate based upon high quality corporate bonds.
Any changes in the assumptions may impact the carrying amount of Existing interests in the joint operation are not remeasured on acquisition pension obligations, the charge in the income statement, or statement of of an additional interest, provided joint control is maintained.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 11 amendments full impact.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate that should be used to determine the Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required Amortisation Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 to settle the pension obligations.
The amendments clarify that a revenue-based method of depreciation or In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the amortisation is generally not appropriate.
interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in The IASB has amended IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment to clarify the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to that a revenue-based method should not be used to calculate the maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Other depreciation of items of property, plant and equipment.
key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current IAS 38 Intangible Assets now includes a rebuttable presumption that the market conditions.
As well as the discount rate, the inflation rates and life amortisation of intangible assets based on revenue is inappropriate.
This expectancy are also key assumptions.
presumption can be overcome if either To set the price inflation assumptions the Group considers market The intangible asset is expressed as a measure of revenue ie expectations of inflation at the appropriate durations.
Adjustments are where a measure of revenue is the limiting factor on the value that made to these rates where necessary to reflect an inflation risk premium.
can be derived from the asset, or In determining the life expectancy assumptions the Group considers the It can be shown that revenue and the consumption of economic mortality assumptions used by the Trustees of the pension schemes in benefits generated by the asset are highly correlated their latest actuarial valuations and also mortality guidance laid out by legislation.
This enables the Group to determine a best estimate of life The Group does not believe this will have any impact.
expectancy that is appropriate for accounting purposes.
Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate e Errors and omissions liability or joint venture Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 During the ordinary course of business the Group can be subject The IASB has made limited scope amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated to claims for errors and omissions made in connection with its financial statements and IAS 28 Investments in associates and broking activities.
106 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The amendments clarify the accounting treatment for sales or Accounting standards and interpretation applicable on or after contribution of assets between an investor and its associates or 1 January 2017 joint ventures.
They confirm that the accounting treatment depends Financial Instruments - Amendments to IFRS 9 on whether the non-monetary assets sold or contributed to an associate or joint venture constitutes a business as defined in IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the classification, IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2015.
Where the non-monetary assets constitute a business, the investor It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification and will recognise the full gain or loss on the sale or contribution of assets.
IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the If the assets do not meet the definition of a business, the gain or mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement loss is recognised by the investor only to the extent of the other categories for financial assets: amortised cost, fair value through other investors investors in the associate or joint venture.
The amendments comprehensive income OCI and fair value through profit or loss.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 10 and IAS 28 amendments full impact.
The basis of classification depends on the entitys business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
Disclosure Initiative - Amendments to IAS 1 Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured at fair The amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements are value through profit or loss with the irrevocable option at inception to made in the context of the IASBs Disclosure Initiative, which explores present changes in fair value in OCI not recycling.
There is now a new how financial statement disclosures can be improved.
The amendments expected credit losses model that replaces the incurred loss impairment provide clarifications on a number of issues, including: model used in IAS 39.
For financial liabilities there were no changes to classification and measurement except for the recognition of changes in Materiality an entity should not aggregate or disaggregate own credit risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities designated information in a manner that obscures useful information.
Where at fair value through profit or loss.
IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for items are material, sufficient information must be provided to explain hedge effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge effectiveness the impact on the financial position or performance.
It requires an economic relationship between the hedged item Disaggregation and subtotals line items specified in IAS 1 may and hedging instrument and for the hedged ratio to be the same need to be disaggregated where this is relevant to an understanding as the one management actually use for risk management purposes.
of the entitys financial position or performance.
There is also new Contemporaneous documentation is still required but is different to that guidance on the use of subtotals.
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
Early adoption is Notes confirmation that the notes do not need to be presented in permitted subject to EU endorsement.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS a particular order.
OCI arising from investments accounted for under the equity method the share of OCI arising from equity-accounted Issuance of new standard IFRS15 - Revenue from contracts with investments is grouped based on whether the items will or will not customers subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss.
Each group should IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers deals with revenue then be presented as a single line item in the statement of other recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful information comprehensive income.
to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 cycle with customers.
Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains The latest annual improvements clarify: control of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or service.
The standard replaces IFRS 5 when an asset or disposal group is reclassified from IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts and related held for sale to held for distribution or vice versa, this does not interpretations.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on constitute a change to a plan of sale or distribution and does not or after 1 January 2017 and earlier application is permitted subject to EU have to be accounted for as such endorsement.
The Group is in the process of assessing the full impact IFRS 7 that the additional disclosures relating to the offsetting of of IFRS 15 and this work will continue through 2016.
Based on our financial assets and financial liabilities only need to be included in initial assessment this standard will impact many areas of the business.
interim reports if required by IAS 34 It is expected that it will lead to an acceleration of income recognition IAS 19 that when determining the discount rate for postand the quantum of recognition will become more judgemental.
As a employment benefit obligations, it is the currency that the liabilities consequence of this, there will be an increase in trade receivables and are denominated in that is important and not the country where working capital, as the timing of income recognition and its collection in they arise cash move further apart.
Quantification of the impact cannot be given at this time.
IAS 34 what is meant by the reference in the standard to information disclosed elsewhere in the interim financial report and Issuance of new standard IFRS16 - Leases adds a requirement to cross-reference from the interim financial IFRS 16, Leases requires lessees to recognise a lease liability reflecting statements to the location of that information.
future lease payments and a right-of-use asset for virtually all lease contracts.
This defers from IAS 17 Leases were a distinction between a finance lease on balance sheet and an operating lease off balance sheet was required.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and earlier application is permitted subject to EU endorsement.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 16s full impact.
107 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015
