66 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JOHN LAING GROUP PLC CONTINUED OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 16 million 2014: 12 million, which is below 2% 2014: 2% of shareholders equity.
We selected shareholders equity as net asset value is a key performance indicator for the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 320,000 2014: 240,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our audit scope primarily focused on the fair value of those PPP and renewable energy investments which are significant to the Group.
Audit work was performed on a sample of investments which comprised 85% 2014: 92% of the total valuation of investments.
Other investments were subject to review procedures.
We made enquiries of the auditors of a sample of investments where the Groups investment when planning our audit was greater than 32 million which covered 55% of the value of the portfolio as to whether they were aware of any matters which may impact the fair value of those investments.
Our audit work on those subsidiaries which provide asset management services and are consolidated was executed at a materiality lower than Group materiality.
At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining subsidiaries not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team has initiated a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Group audit team visits a sample of the Groups investments each year.
This year the Group audit team visited four of the Groups investments.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
