John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 115 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2015 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED d Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Balance Sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the instrument expire or the asset is transferred and the transfer qualifies for derecognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
i Financial assets The Company classifies its financial assets in the following categories: investments at fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables and investments at cost.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
The Company determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
a Investments at fair value through profit or loss The Companys accounting policy in respect of investments at fair value through profit or loss is set out in section 2 b above.
The value of the Companys investment in John Laing Holdco Limited is measured as the fair value of the assets and liabilities of that company.
John Laing Holdco Limited is also an investment entity and fair values its investment in John Laing Limited, which is an intermediary holding company for the Groups investments in project subsidiaries and joint ventures.
The fair value in John Laing Holdco Limited is determined by the fair value of the investment in those project subsidiaries and joint ventures, as disclosed in note 12 of the Group Financial Statements, and by its other assets and liabilities which are accounted for at cost.
The other assets and liabilities of John Laing Holdco Limited include amounts due from to subsidiaries and the Directors consider their cost to approximates to their fair value.
At 31 December 2014, the Companys investment was valued at nil as a result of the fair value of the loan from John Laing Holdco Limiteds ultimate parent undertaking being in excess of the fair value of its assets.
b Loans and receivables The Companys loans and receivables comprise cash and cash equivalents and amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings and are recorded at amortised cost.
c Investments at cost The Companys investments at cost comprise its investments in Service Companies see note 2 b for further details which are held at cost less impairments.
ii Financial liabilities and equity Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
a Equity instruments share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or associated with the establishment of the Company that would otherwise have been avoided are written off against the balance of the share premium account.
b Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as other financial liabilities, comprising loans and borrowings which are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
e Dividend payments Dividends on the Companys ordinary shares are recognised when they have been appropriately authorised and are no longer at the Companys discretion.
Accordingly, interim dividends are recognised when they are paid and final dividends are recognised when they are declared following approval by shareholders at the Companys AGM.
Dividends are recognised as an appropriation of shareholders funds.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
