John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2015 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED i Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the instrument expire or the asset is transferred and the transfer qualifies for derecognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities other than financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at FVTPL are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
i Financial assets All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at FVTPL, which are initially measured at fair value.
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets at FVTPL: held-to-maturity investments: available-for-sale financial assets: and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
The financial assets that the Group holds are classified as financial assets at FVTPL and loans and receivables: Financial assets at FVTPL comprise investments at FVTPL which include investments in project companies, investments in listed companies and other assets and liabilities of investment entity subsidiaries.
Investments in project companies and in listed companies are designated upon initial recognition as financial assets at FVTPL.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investments in project companies are measured on a combined basis at fair value using discounted cash flow methodology.
Investments in listed investments are valued at the quoted market price at the end of the period.
The Directors consider that the carrying value of other assets and liabilities held in investment entity subsidiaries at FVTPL approximates to their fair value.
Changes in fair value are recognised within operating income in the Group Income Statement.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Loans and receivables are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the Group Balance Sheet.
ii Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indications of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events which have occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets.
iii Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
