74 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2015 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED c Application of investment entity guidance Following EU endorsement of Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 in November 2013, the Group concluded that the Company met the definition of an investment entity.
The Group also adopted the amendments to IFRS 12 and IAS 27 which are applicable to an investment entity.
Following adoption of these standards, the Group, as an investment entity, measures all its investments in investment entity subsidiaries, through which it holds investments in project companies and other investments, at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement to be replaced by IFRS 9 Financial Instruments when it becomes effective.
The Company consolidates those directly owned subsidiaries which provide services in relation to the Groups investment activities Service Companies.
Those subsidiaries include Laing Investments Management Services Limited, John Laing Capital Management Limited and John Laing Services Limited.
d Going concern The Directors have reviewed the Groups financial projections and cash flow forecasts and believe, based on those projections and forecasts, that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements of the Group on the going concern basis.
In arriving at their conclusion, the Directors took into account the Groups approach to liquidity and cash flow management and the availability of its 350.0 million corporate banking facilities committed until March 2020.
The Directors are of the opinion that, based on the Groups forecasts and projections and taking account of expected bidding activity and operational performance, the Group will be able to operate within its bank facilities and comply with the financial covenants therein for the foreseeable future.
In determining that the Group is a going concern, certain risks and uncertainties, some of which arise or increase as a result of the economic environment in some of the Groups markets, have been considered.
The Directors believe that the Group is adequately placed to manage these risks.
The most important risks and uncertainties identified and considered by the Directors are set out in the Principal Risks and Risk Management section on pages 32 to 36.
In addition, the Groups policies for management of its exposure to financial risks, including liquidity, foreign exchange, credit and interest rate risks, are set out in note 17. e Dividend income Dividend income from investments at FVTPL is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established provided that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Dividend income is recognised gross of withholding tax, if any, and only when approved and paid by the investee.
f Dividend payments Dividends on the Companys ordinary shares are recognised when they have been appropriately authorised and are no longer at the Companys discretion.
Accordingly, interim dividends are recognised when they are paid and final dividends are recognised when they are declared following approval by shareholders at the Companys AGM.
Dividends are recognised as an appropriation of shareholders funds.
g Net gain on investments at FVTPL Net gain on investments at FVTPL excludes dividend income referred to above.
Please refer to accounting policy i i for further detail.
h Other income The Group earns income from the following sources: i Fees from asset management services Fees from asset management services to projects in the Groups investment portfolio and to external parties are recognised as services are provided in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue.
When it is probable that the expected outcome over the life of a management services contract will result in a net outflow of economic benefits or overall loss, a provision is recognised immediately.
The provision is determined based on the net present value of the expected future cash inflows and outflows.
ii Recovery of bid costs on financial close Bid costs in respect of primary investments are charged to the Group Income Statement until such time as the Group is virtually certain that it will recover the costs.
Virtual certainty is generally achieved when an agreement is in place demonstrating that costs are fully recoverable even in the event of cancellation of a project.
From the point of virtual certainty, bid costs are held in the Group Balance Sheet as a debtor prior to achieving financial close.
On financial close, the Group recovers bid costs by charging a fee to the relevant project company in the investment portfolio.
Other income excludes the value of intra-group transactions and VAT and includes revenue derived from the provision of services by Service Companies to project companies which are held at FVTPL.
