American pp63-66 23 03 2016 23:04 Page 63 Shareholder Information NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the one hundredth Annual General Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of Meeting of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc will be held at relevant securities Special Resolution 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP on Wednesday, 11th May 12.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above, 2016 at 2.30 p. m. for the following purposes: the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 570 and 573 of the Act to 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and the allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of Auditors Report for the year ended 31st December 2015. the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Resolution 11 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of ended 31st December 2015. equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount 4.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares of of 1,355,826, representing approximately 10% of the issued 2.5 pence per share.
ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the net asset value per 5.
To reappoint Sarah Bates as a Chairman of the Company.
share and shall expire upon the expiry of the general 6.
To reappoint Kate Bolsover as a Director of the Company.
authority conferred by Resolution 11 above, save that the Company may before such expiry make offers, or agreements 7.
To reappoint Simon Bragg as a Director of the Company.
which would or might require equity securities to be allotted 8.
To reappoint Sir Alan Collins as a Director of the Company.
after such expiry and so that the Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in pursuant of such offers, or 9.
To reappoint Dr Kevin Carter as a Director of the Company.
agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not 10.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor to the Company and to expired.
authorise the Directors to determine Deloitte LLPs Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special remuneration.
THAT the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter Special Business appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with To consider the following resolutions: Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution Act of its issued shares in the capital of the Company 11.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby ordinary shares.
generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of any authorities previously granted to the Directors, PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to Act to exercise all the powers for the Company to allot be purchased shall be that number of shares which is relevant securities within the meaning of Section 551 of the equal to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 27,116,525, as at the date of the passing of this resolution: representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall resolution, provided that this authority shall expire at the be the nominal value of the share: conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall be held in 2017 unless renewed at a general meeting prior to be an amount equal to the highest of: a 105% of the such time, save that the Company may before such expiry average of the middle market quotations for a share make offers, agreements or arrangements which would or taken from and calculated by reference to the London might require relevant securities to be allotted after such Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business expiry and so that the Directors of the Company may allot days immediately preceding the day on which the relevant securities in pursuance of such offers, agreements share is contracted to be purchased: or b the price of or arrangements as if the authority conferred hereby had the last independent trade: or c the highest current not expired.
