American pp63-66 23 03 2016 23:04 Page 67 WHERE TO BUY J. P. MORGAN INVESTMENT TRUSTS Alternatively you can invest through an Investment Professional Savings Plan e. g. a Financial Adviser on the following 3rd party platforms: The Company participates in the J. P. Morgan Investment Trusts Savings Plan, which facilitates both regular monthly investments and Ascentric Nucleus occasional lump sum investments in the Companys ordinary shares.
Avalon Praemium Shareholders who would like information on the Savings Plan should Axa Elevate Transact call J. P. Morgan Asset Management free on 0800 20 40 20 or visit Novia its website at am.
co. uk Please note that these websites are third party websites and J. P. Morgan Asset Management does not endorse or recommend Stocks & Shares Individual Savings Accounts ISA any of them.
This list is not exhaustive and is subject to change.
The Companys shares are eligible investments within J. P. Morgans Please observe each sites privacy and cookie policies as well as Stocks & Shares ISA.
For the 2015 16 tax year, from 6th April 2015 their platform charges structure.
and ending 5th April 2016, the total ISA allowance is 15,240.
You can also buy investment trusts through stockbrokers, wealth Details are available from J. P. Morgan Asset Management free on managers and banks.
co. uk To familiarise yourself with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA There are a number of ways that you can buy shares in investment adviser charging and commission rules, visit www.
trust companies: you can invest through J. P. Morgan Online or on the following: Fund supermarkets: AJ Bell James Brearley Alliance Trust Savings James Hay Barclays Stockbrokers Stocktrade Charles Stanley Direct TD Direct Halifax Share Dealing Service The Share Centre Hargreaves Lansdown Tilney Bestinvest Interactive Investor Transact Financial Conduct Authority In association with: Beware of share fraud Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
Report a scam How to avoid share fraud 1 Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA 6 Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with not have contact details on the Register or you FCA using the share fraud reporting form at an offer to buy or sell shares.
are told they are out of date.
uk scams, where you can find out more about investment scams.
2 Do not get into a conversation, note the name 7 Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at of the person and firm contacting you and then www.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on end the call.
8 Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an 3 Check the Financial Services Register from unauthorised firm you will not have access to the If you have already paid money to share fraudsters www.
uk to see if the person and firm Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
9 4 Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an Think about getting independent financial and 5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct authorised firm, copying its website or giving professional advice before you hand over any you false contact details.
Authority about share fraud each year, with victims losing an average of 20,000 5 10 Use the firms contact details listed on the Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it Register if you want to call it back.
