American pp42-62 23 03 2016 23:04 Page 44 Financial Statements continued NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.
Accounting policies continued j Taxation Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid or received.
Deferred tax is provided on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable timing differences but deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not that taxable profits will be available against which those timing differences can be utilised.
Tax relief is allocated to expenses charged to capital on the marginal basis.
On this basis, if taxable income is capable of being entirely offset by revenue expenses, then no tax relief is allocated to capital.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rate which is expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and is measured on an undiscounted basis.
k Dividends payable The final dividend is included in the accounts in the year in which it is approved by shareholders.
l Value Added Tax VAT Irrecoverable VAT is included in the expense on which it has been suffered.
Recoverable VAT is calculated using the partial exemption method based on the proportion of zero rated supplies to total supplies.
Significant accounting judgements and estimates The preparation of the Companys Financial Statements on occasion requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the primary financial statements and the accompanying disclosures.
These assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in the current and future periods, depending on circumstance.
Management do not believe that any accounting judgements or estimates have been applied to this set of financial statements, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Gains on investments held at fair value through profit or loss 2015 2014 000 000 Gains on sales of investments held at fair value through profit or loss based on historical cost 84,177 39,643 Amounts recognised in investment holding gains and losses in the previous year in respect of investments sold during the year 82,093 42,925 Gains losses on sales of investments based on the carrying value at the previous balance sheet date 2,084 3,282 Net movement in investment holding gains and losses 32,450 142,538 Other capital charges 8 8 Total capital gains on investments held at fair value through profit or loss 34,526 139,248 44 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
