American pp63-66 23 03 2016 23:04 Page 66 Shareholder Information continued GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND DEFINITIONS Return to Shareholders is shown as a percentage of the NAV per share.
The opposite of a Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to mid-market discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment trusts price basis, assuming that all dividends received were reinvested, shares to trade at a discount than at a premium.
without transaction costs, into the shares of the Company at the Portfolio Turnover time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Portfolio turnover is based on the average equity purchases and Return on Net Assets sales expressed as a percentage of average opening and closing Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid value to portfolio values excluding liquidity funds.
bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the Performance Attribution Company were reinvested, into the shares of the Company at the Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded performance NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Benchmark Return Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to mid-market Performance Attribution Definitions: value basis, assuming that all dividends received were reinvested, Allocation Effect without transaction costs, into the shares of the underlying Measures the effect of allocating assets to sectors or asset types companies at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
differently to the weighting in the benchmark.
The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should not Selection Effect be taken as wholly representative of the Companys investment Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or lesser universe.
The Companys investment strategy does not track this extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in index and consequently there may be some divergence between securities which are excluded from the benchmark.
the Companys performance and that of the benchmark.
Gearing Net Cash Actual Gearing Factor Measures the impact of borrowings or cash balances on the Investments excluding holdings in liquidity funds, expressed as a Companys performance relative to its benchmark.
This shows the effect of gearing on the net asset value if the market value of the portfolio were to increase by Currency Hedge 100%.
Measures the effect on the Companys performance of a gain or loss arising from the Companys hedging activities.
Ongoing Charges The ongoing charges represent the Companys management fee and Management Fee Expenses all other operating expenses excluding finance costs payable, The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total assets expressed as a percentage of the average of the daily net assets and therefore has a negative effect on the Companys relative during the year and is calculated in accordance with guidance performance.
issued by the Association of Investment Companies.
Shares Issued Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value NAV per The issue of shares at a price in excess of the net asset value per Share share, has a positive effect on the Companys relative performance.
If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV per share, the shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The discount 66 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
