American pp63-66 23 03 2016 23:04 Page 63 Shareholder Information NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the one hundredth Annual General Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of Meeting of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc will be held at relevant securities Special Resolution 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP on Wednesday, 11th May 12.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above, 2016 at 2.30 p. m. for the following purposes: the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 570 and 573 of the Act to 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and the allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of Auditors Report for the year ended 31st December 2015. the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Resolution 11 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of ended 31st December 2015. equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount 4.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares of of 1,355,826, representing approximately 10% of the issued 2.5 pence per share.
ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the net asset value per 5.
To reappoint Sarah Bates as a Chairman of the Company.
share and shall expire upon the expiry of the general 6.
To reappoint Kate Bolsover as a Director of the Company.
authority conferred by Resolution 11 above, save that the Company may before such expiry make offers, or agreements 7.
To reappoint Simon Bragg as a Director of the Company.
which would or might require equity securities to be allotted 8.
To reappoint Sir Alan Collins as a Director of the Company.
after such expiry and so that the Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in pursuant of such offers, or 9.
To reappoint Dr Kevin Carter as a Director of the Company.
agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not 10.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor to the Company and to expired.
authorise the Directors to determine Deloitte LLPs Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special remuneration.
THAT the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter Special Business appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with To consider the following resolutions: Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution Act of its issued shares in the capital of the Company 11.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby ordinary shares.
generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of any authorities previously granted to the Directors, PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to Act to exercise all the powers for the Company to allot be purchased shall be that number of shares which is relevant securities within the meaning of Section 551 of the equal to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 27,116,525, as at the date of the passing of this resolution: representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall resolution, provided that this authority shall expire at the be the nominal value of the share: conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall be held in 2017 unless renewed at a general meeting prior to be an amount equal to the highest of: a 105% of the such time, save that the Company may before such expiry average of the middle market quotations for a share make offers, agreements or arrangements which would or taken from and calculated by reference to the London might require relevant securities to be allotted after such Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business expiry and so that the Directors of the Company may allot days immediately preceding the day on which the relevant securities in pursuance of such offers, agreements share is contracted to be purchased: or b the price of or arrangements as if the authority conferred hereby had the last independent trade: or c the highest current not expired.
independent bid: 63 American pp63-66 23 03 2016 23:04 Page 64 Shareholder Information continued NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED iv any purchase of shares will be made in the market for Notes These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse of cash or prices below the prevailing net asset value per the proxy form.
share as determined by the Directors : 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on another person s who need not be a member of the Company to 10th October 2017 unless the authority is renewed at exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2017 or at meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the any other general meeting prior to such time: and meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares held by him.
vi the Company may make or contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the shares pursuant to any such contract notwithstanding Chairman, another director of the Company or another person who has such expiry.
agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If the voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise By order of the Board his their discretion both as to how to vote and whether he they Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the meeting for your JPMorgan Funds Limited, vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does not preclude you Company Secretary from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see above also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards that share if the Company is unable to determine which was last received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two business days prior to the meeting the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two business days prior to the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in that notice changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
64 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint individuals to act as business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the its representatives and to vote in person at the meeting see grounds for the request.
instructions given on the proxy form.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative may have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated Person: company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same they can only be exercised by the member.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated Person may have a right under an agreement between him and the corporate representative.
member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Representatives should bring to the meeting evidence of their Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the Companies to the exercise of voting rights.
Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its website setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or b any circumstances in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at connected with auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to exercise at the previous AGM, which the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
The AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, members Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website must also be after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys website sent to the Companys auditor no later than the time it makes its www.
statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of appointment required to publish on its website pursuant to this right.
are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during 9.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual General business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member Meeting.
No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if it is 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
Under Sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting the 15.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy Voting threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Instruction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically by Company: i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive visiting www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task ID and notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution which those members Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of numbers printed intend to move and which may properly be moved at the Meeting: under your name on the Form of Proxy Voting Direction Form.
and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the Meeting any Alternatively, if you have already registered with Equiniti Limiteds matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be online portfolio service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of Proxy included in the business at the Meeting.
A resolution may properly be at www.
Full instructions are given on both websites.
moved, or a matter properly included in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by 16.
As at 22nd March 2016 being the latest business day prior to the reason of any inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is of 271,165,258 shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in voting rights in the Company are 271,165,258. hard copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which Electronic appointment CREST members notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and must be any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST received by the Company not later than the date that is six clear weeks Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the 65
