American pp42-62 23 03 2016 23:04 Page 42 Financial Statements continued NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2015 1.
Accounting policies a Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland and the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts the SORP issued by the Association of Investment Companies in November 2014.
All of the Companys operations are of a continuing nature.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The disclosures on going concern on page 28 of the Directors Report form part of these financial statements.
b Transition to FRS 102 This set of financial statements, in accordance with the SORP includes changes arising from the adoption of FRS 102 which the Company is required to comply with for the first time for the year ended 31st December 2015.
Aside from amendments to the disclosure of fair value hierarchy information and presentational aspects relating to the Statement of Cash Flows, no significant changes have arisen from the adoption of the new standards.
Where changes have arisen, they are substantially in relation to presentation, disclosure and non-quantifiable aspects there has been no impact to financial position or financial performance and no comparative figures required restating.
c Valuation of investments The Company has chosen to adopt Sections 11 and 12 of FRS 102 in respect of financial instruments.
The Companys business is investing in financial assets with a view to profiting from their total return in the form of income and capital growth.
This portfolio of financial assets is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented investment strategy and information is provided internally on that basis to the Companys Board of Directors.
Accordingly, upon initial recognition the investments are designated by the Company as held at fair value through profit or loss.
They are included initially at fair value which is taken to be their cost, excluding expenses incidental to purchase which are written off in the capital column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income at the time of acquisition.
Subsequently the investments are valued at fair value, which are quoted bid prices for investments traded in active markets.
For investments which are not traded in active markets, unlisted and restricted investments, the Board takes into account the latest traded prices, other observable market data and asset values based on the latest management accounts.
All purchases and sales are accounted for on a trade date basis.
d Accounting for reserves Gains and losses on sales of investments including the related foreign exchange gains and losses, realised exchange gains and losses on cash and short term deposits, realised gains and losses on foreign currency contracts, any performance fee realised, management fee and finance costs allocated to capital and any other capital charges, are included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and dealt with in capital reserves within Gains and losses on sales of investments.
Increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end including the related foreign exchange gains and losses, unrealised gains and losses on forward foreign currency contracts and any performance fee provision, are included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and dealt with in capital reserves within Holding gains and losses on investments.
e Income Dividends receivable from equity shares are included in revenue on an ex-dividend basis except where, in the opinion of the Board, the dividend is capital in nature, in which case it is included in capital.
Overseas dividends are included gross of any withholding tax.
Where the Company has elected to receive scrip dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in revenue.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in capital.
Interest receivable from debt securities together with any premiums or discounts on purchase are allocated to revenue on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective interest rate of those securities.
Deposit interest receivable is taken to revenue on an accruals basis.
42 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 American pp42-62 23 03 2016 23:04 Page 43 f Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses are allocated wholly to revenue with the following exceptions: any performance fee is allocated 100% to capital.
the management fee is allocated 20% to revenue and 80% to capital in line with the Boards expected long term split of revenue and capital return from the Companys investment portfolio.
expenses incidental to the purchase of an investment are included within the cost of the investment and those incidental to the sale are deducted from the sale proceeds.
These expenses are commonly referred to as transaction costs and comprise mainly brokerage commission.
Details of transaction costs are given in note 11 on page 48. g Finance costs Finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate method.
Finance costs are allocated 20% to revenue and 80% to capital in line with the Boards expected long term split of revenue and capital return from the Companys investment portfolio.
h Financial instruments Cash and cash equivalents may comprise cash including demand deposits which are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value as well as cash equivalents.
Liquidity funds are considered cash equivalents as they are held for cash management purposes as an alternative to cash.
Other debtors and creditors do not carry any interest, are short term in nature and are accordingly stated at nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Bank loans and debentures are classified as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
They are initially measured at proceeds net of direct issue costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Interest payable on bank loans is accounted for on an accruals basis in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The amortisation of direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in the Statement of Comprehensive Income using the effective interest rate method.
Forward foreign currency contracts are included in the Statement of Financial Position as derivative financial instruments and are carried at fair value, which is the cost of closing out those contracts.
Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
i Foreign currency The Company is required to identify its functional currency, being the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
The Board, having regard to the currency of the Companys share capital and the predominant currency in which its shareholders operate, has determined that sterling is the functional currency.
Sterling is also the currency in which the accounts are presented.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are converted at actual exchange rates at the date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year end.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as an exchange gain or loss in revenue or capital, depending on whether the gain or loss is of a revenue or capital nature.
