American pp21-32 24 03 2016 10:13 Page 32 Governance continued STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and and integrity of the website maintained by the Manager is, so far as accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
it relates to the Company, the responsibility of the Manager.
The work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements the maintenance and integrity of this website and, accordingly, the for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected to auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that have prepare the financial statements in accordance with United occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom website.
The accounts are prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the legislation, which may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that, taken as a whole, the annual report and accounts are Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also fair, balanced and understandable, provide the information responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Strategic Report, necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, Statement of Corporate Governance and Directors Remuneration business model and strategy and that they give a true and fair view Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
of the state of affairs of the Company and of the total return or loss Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on of the Company for that period.
In order to provide these pages 21 and 22 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: confirmations, and in preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable consistently: law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable position and return or loss of the Company: and and prudent: the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been performance of the business and the position of the Company, followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties explained in the financial statements: and that it faces.
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless The Board confirms that it is satisfied that the annual report and it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable business and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the strategy and business model of the Company.
and the Directors confirm that they have done so.
The Board also confirms that it is satisfied that the Strategic Report The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records and Directors Report include a fair review of the development and that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions performance of the business, and the position of the Company, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the that the Company faces.
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection For and on behalf of the Board of fraud and other irregularities.
Sarah Bates The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk website, Chairman which is maintained by the Companys Manager.
The maintenance 23rd March 2016 32 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
