American pp42-62 23 03 2016 23:04 Page 62 Regulatory Disclosures ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS DIRECTIVE AIFMD DISCLOSURES UNAUDITED Leverage For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, leverage is any method which increases the Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a ratio between the Companys exposure and its net asset value and can be calculated on a gross and a commitment method.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys positions after the deduction of sterling cash balances, without taking into account any hedging and netting arrangements.
Under the commitment method, exposure is calculated without the deduction of sterling cash balances and after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other.
The Company is required to state its maximum and actual leverage levels, calculated as prescribed by the AIFMD as at 31st December 2015, which gives the following figures: Gross Commitment Method Method Leverage Exposure Maximum limit 200% 200% Actual 123% 111% JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF Remuneration The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the AIFMD, requires certain disclosures to be made with regard to the remuneration policy of the Companys AIFM.
Details of JPMFs AIFM Remuneration Policy are disclosed on the Companys website at www.
co. uk and became applicable to the Manager on 1 January 2015, being the beginning of the first financial year of JPMF following the Managers authorisation as an AIFM.
The disclosure has been prepared in accordance with the AIFMD, the European Commission Delegated Regulation supplementing the AIFMD, the Guidelines on Sound Remuneration Policies under the AIFMD issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook SYSC 19B: The AIFM Remuneration Code and FUND 3.3.
JPMF Remuneration Policy The current remuneration policy for the EMEA Global Investment business of J. P. Morgan can be found at https: am.
com gb en asset-management gim adv .
This policy includes details of the alignment with risk management, the financial and non-financial criteria used to evaluate performance and the measures adopted to avoid or manage conflicts of interest.
JPMF Quantitative Disclosures Disclosures in accordance with FUND 3.3.
5, Article 22 2 e and 22 2 f of the AIFMD and Article 107 of the Delegated Regulation are disclosed on the Companys website at www.
co. uk 62 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
