16519 pp21 36 28 09 2015 19:29 Page 36 Governance continued Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report The accounts are published on the and the accounts in accordance with applicable law and www.
co. uk website, which is maintained regulations.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by the Manager is, so far as it relates Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial to the Company, the responsibility of the Manager.
The work statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance the maintenance and integrity of this website and, with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
changes that have occurred to the accounts since they were Under Company law the Directors must not approve the initially presented on the website.
The accounts are prepared financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a in accordance with UK legislation, which may differ from true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of legislation in other jurisdictions.
the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Report and Directors Remuneration Report that comply with consistently: that law and those regulations.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in prudent: the Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have knowledge the financial statements, which have been been followed, subject to any material departures prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the prepare the financial statements on the going concern assets, liabilities, financial position and return or loss of the basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company.
Company will continue in business.
The Board confirms that it is satisfied that the annual report and the Directors confirm that they have done so.
and accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting understandable and provide the information necessary for records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys shareholders to assess the strategy and business model of the transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any Company.
time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for For and on behalf of the Board safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking Alan Saunders, reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Chairman and other irregularities.
28th September 2015 36 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
