16519 pp67 72 28 09 2015 16:55 Page 67 Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty fourth Annual General 2016 unless renewed at a general meeting prior to such Meeting of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc time, save that the Company may before such expiry make will be held at Holborn Bars, 138-142 Holborn, London offers or agreements which would or might require shares EC1N 2NQ on Tuesday, 17th November 2015 at 3.00 p. m. for the to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and following purposes: so that the Directors of the Company may allot shares and grant Rights in pursuance of such offers or agreements as 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
the Auditors Report for the year ended 30th June 2015.
Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of relevant 2.
To approve the Companys remuneration policy.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the 14.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 13 set out above, year ended 30th June 2015. the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Sections 570 to 573 of the Act to 4.
To approve a final dividend of 6.0p per share.
allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of 5.
To reappoint Sarah Arkle a Director of the Company.
the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 13 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if 6.
To reappoint Anatole Kaletsky as a Director of the Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such Company.
allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the 7.
To reappoint Nigel Kenny as a Director of the Company.
allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,605,604 representing approximately 8.
To reappoint Richard Laing as a Director of the Company.
5% of the issued Ordinary share capital as at the date of the 9.
To reappoint Percy Mistry as a Director of the Company.
passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the net asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry of 10.
To reappoint Andrew Page as a Director of the Company.
the general authority conferred by Resolution 13 above, 11.
To reappoint Alan Saunders as a Director of the Company.
save that the Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity 12.
To reappoint  LLP as Auditors to securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that the the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in their remuneration.
pursuant of such offers or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Special Business Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special Resolution To consider the following resolutions: 15.
THAT the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with 13.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of its issued of any authorities previously granted to the Directors, Ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the pursuant to and in accordance with Section 551 of the Directors may from time to time determine.
Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, i the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate authorised to be purchased shall be 19,254,411, or if nominal amount of 1,605,604, representing less, that number of Ordinary shares which is equal to approximately 5% of the Companys issued Ordinary share 14.99% of the issued share capital as at the date of the capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution, passing of this Resolution: provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in share shall be 25 pence: JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 67 16519 pp67 72 28 09 2015 16:55 Page 68 Shareholder Information continued Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes iii the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary share shall be an amount equal to the highest of: These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse of the proxy form.
a 105% of the average of the middle market 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint quotations for an Ordinary share taken from and another person s who need not be a member of the Company to calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the Daily Official List for the five business days immediately Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the preceding the day on which the Ordinary share is rights attaching to different shares held by him.
contracted to be purchased: or b the price of the last 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must independent trade: or c the highest current attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the independent bid: Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person who has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to iv any purchase of Ordinary shares will be made in the appoint the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy value per Ordinary share as determined by the form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and Directors : whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 16th May does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in 2017 unless the authority is renewed at the Companys person.
Annual General Meeting in 2016 or at any other general 3.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in meeting prior to such time: and accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form no later than 3.00 p. m. two business days prior to the Meeting vi the Company may make a contract to purchase i. e. excluding weekends and bank holidays.
Ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred 4.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy prior to the expiry of such authority which contract will appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the such authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid shares pursuant to any such contract.
separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last received Authority to increase the maximum aggregate of Directors fees regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as payable Ordinary Resolution replacing and revoking the other or others as regards that share: if 16.
THAT the maximum aggregate fees payable to Directors be the Company is unable to determine which was last received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys By order of the Board register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two business days prior to the Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the JPMorgan Funds Limited, original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of Company Secretary determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast 5th October 2015 at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two business days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the Meeting or adjourned Meeting.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
68 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s 11.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons to act as its representative s and to vote in person at the Meeting who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information see instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the agreement between him and the member by whom he was same shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have designated corporate representative.
If a Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right Representatives should bring to the Meeting evidence of their under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
the exercise of voting rights.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of statement on its website setting out any matter relating to: shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting a the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, the AGM: or b any circumstances connected with Auditors of members resolutions or members matters of business received the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM, by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on which the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
The the Companys website www.
Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in website must also be sent to the Companys Auditors no later the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
appointment are available for inspection at the Companys The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any registered office during usual business hours on any weekday statement that the Company has been required to publish on its Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be website pursuant to this right.
available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must cause to be answered at the AGM any question 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes a member attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, other than those expressly stated.
including if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the 15.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy Voting good order of the Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of Instruction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically confidential information.
You will need your Voting ID, Task 10.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting ID and Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to numbers printed under your name on the Form of Proxy Voting require the Company: i to give, to members of the Company Direction Form.
Alternatively, if you have already registered with entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution Equiniti Limiteds online portfolio service, Shareview, you can which those members intend to move and which may properly be submit your Form of Proxy at www.
Full moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be instructions are given on both websites.
dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed 16.
As at 25th September 2015 being the latest business day prior to resolution which may properly be included in the business at the the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital Meeting.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly consists of 132,363,525 Ordinary shares of which 3,915,149 shares included in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only are held in Treasury, carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any voting rights in the Company are 128,448,376. inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard Electronic appointment CREST members copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
must be received by the Company not later than the date that is six clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
