16519 pp67 72 28 09 2015 16:55 Page 70 Shareholder Information continued Glossary of Terms and Definitions Return to Ordinary shareholders Share price discount premium to net asset value NAV Total return to the Ordinary shareholder on a mid-market price If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV to mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends received per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a were reinvested, without transaction costs, in the Ordinary discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV shares of the Company at the time the shares were quoted per share.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
common for an investment trusts shares to trade at a discount than at a premium.
Return on net assets Performance attribution Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded Company were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the performance relative to its benchmark.
NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Performance attribution definitions: In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet Asset allocation date are deducted from the NAV per share when calculating Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in the return on net assets.
the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different countries, sectors or asset types.
Benchmark return Stock selection Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of were reinvested in the shares of the underlying companies at investing in securities which are not included in the the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should Gearing cash not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy does balances on the Companys relative performance.
not follow or track this index and consequently, there may be Currency some divergence between the Companys performance and Measures the impact of currency exposure differences that of the benchmark.
between the Companys portfolio and its benchmark.
Gearing Net Cash Management fee other expenses The payment of fees and expenses reduces the Companys net Gearing represents the excess amount above shareholders assets and therefore has a negative effect on relative funds of total assets, expressed as a percentage of the performance.
Total assets include total investments and net current assets liabilities less cash cash equivalents and excluding bank loans of less than one year.
If the amount calculated is negative, this is shown as a net cash position.
Ongoing charges The ongoing charges represent the Companys management fee and all other operating expenses, excluding finance costs, expressed as a percentage of the average daily net assets during the year.
70 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 16519 pp67 72 28 09 2015 16:55 Page 71 Leverage For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, leverage is any method which increases the Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a ratio between the Companys exposure and its net asset value and is calculated on a gross method and a commitment method, in accordance with AIFMD.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys positions without taking into account any hedging and netting arrangements.
Under the commitment method, exposure is calculated after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Leverage The Company is required to state its maximum and actual leverage levels, calculated as prescribed by the AIFMD, as at 30th June 2015, which gives the following figures: Gross Commitment Leverage Exposure Method Method Maximum limit 175.00% 175.00% Actual 101.02% 101.42% It should be noted that the Company does not have a borrowing facility and does not currently employ gearing.
At the year end the Companys position was 3.8% net cash.
The above figures are theoretical and are calculated in accordance with the methodology prescribed by the AIFMD.
Financial Conduct Authority In association with: Beware of share fraud Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
Report a scam How to avoid share fraud 1 Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA 6 Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with not have contact details on the Register or you FCA using the share fraud reporting form at an offer to buy or sell shares.
are told they are out of date.
uk scams, where you can find out more about investment scams.
2 Do not get into a conversation, note the name 7 Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at of the person and firm contacting you and then www.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on end the call.
8 Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an 3 Check the Financial Services Register from unauthorised firm you will not have access to the If you have already paid money to share fraudsters www.
uk to see if the person and firm Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
9 4 Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an Think about getting independent financial and 5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct authorised firm, copying its website or giving professional advice before you hand over any you false contact details.
Authority about share fraud each year, with victims losing an average of 20,000 5 10 Use the firms contact details listed on the Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it Register if you want to call it back.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 71 16519 pp67 72 28 09 2015 16:55 Page 72 Shareholder Information continued Where to buy J. P. Morgan Investment Trusts Savings Plan Alternatively you can invest through an Investment Professional e. g. a Financial Adviser on the following The Company participates in the J. P. Morgan Investment Trusts 3rd party platforms: Savings Plan, which facilitates both regular monthly investments and occasional lump sum investments in the Ascentric Nucleus Companys ordinary shares.
Shareholders who would like Avalon Praemium information on the Savings Plan should call J. P. Morgan Asset Axa Elevate Transact Management free on 0800 731 1111 or visit its website at Novia https: am.
co. uk investor guidance-andPlease note that these websites are third party websites and planning guides .
aspx J. P. Morgan Asset Management does not endorse or recommend any of them.
This list is not exhaustive and is Stocks & Shares Individual Savings Accounts ISA subject to change.
Please observe each sites privacy and The Companys shares are eligible investments within cookie policies as well as their platform charges structure.
J. P. Morgans Stocks & Shares ISA.
For the 2015 16 tax year, You can also buy investment trusts through stockbrokers, from 6th April 2015 and ending 5th April 2016, the total ISA wealth managers and banks.
Details are available from J. P. Morgan Asset Management free on 0800 731 1111 or via its website at To familiarise yourself with the Financial Conduct Authority https: am.
co. uk investor isas what-is-a-stocksFCA adviser charging and commission rules, visit and-shares-isa.
There are a number of ways that you can buy shares in investment trust companies: you can invest through J. P. Morgan WealthManager or on the following: Fund supermarkets: AJ Bell Interactive Investor Alliance Trust James Brearley Barclays Stockbrokers James Hay Bestinvest Selftrade Charles Stanley Direct TD Direct Halifax Share Dealing Service The Share Centre Hargreaves Lansdown Transact 72 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
