Directors Responsibility and Compliance Statements Statements relating the preparation of the Financial the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial Statements statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply with The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the the requirements of the Act and, as regards the Group financial Remuneration report and the Financial Statements in accordance statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements for each financial year.
The Directors responsibiliy for the safekeeping of assets Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group and The Directors have examined the steps in place for ensuring the Company Financial Statements in accordance with International prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the procedure is examined and tested on a regular basis.
The Board European Union EU, and related IFRS IC interpretations and is satisfied it is understood and is operated well, and accordingly with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act that the assets of the Company are safeguarded and protected applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
from fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors review of the Financial Statements The Directors responsibiliy for information The Directors undertook a detailed review of the financial The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity statements in January and February 2016.
Following this of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom examination, the Board was satisfied that the Financial Statements governing the preparation and dissemination of financial for 2015 give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Before approving the Financial Statements, the Statement of Directors responsibilities Board satisfied itself that in preparing the statements: Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Directors profiles, confirms that, to the best of his or suitable accounting policies had been selected and consistently her knowledge: applied: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in the judgements and accounting estimates that have been made accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and were reasonable, necessary and prudent: and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit where applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been of the Group: and adopted they have been followed and that there were no the Directors report contained in the Annual Report and material departures.
Accounts includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, together with a description of the principal risks and taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and uncertainties that it faces.
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and In accordance with Section 418 of the Act, the Directors report strategy.
includes a statement, in the case of each Director in office at the date the Directors report is approved, that: The Directors review of going concern The financial statements have been prepared on the going a s o far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit concern basis, the Directors having determined that the Company information as defined in section 418 3 of the Act of which is likely to continue in business for at least 12 months from the date the Companys auditors are unaware: and of this report.
b h e she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any The Directors review of current position, prospects and relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys principal risks auditors are aware of that information.
During 2015, the Board implemented an Enterprise Risk Management ERM framework encompassing all areas of risk to On behalf of the Board which the Group or its funds may be exposed, including those noted as having potential impact on Jupiters business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
With support from the Philip Johnson Audit and Risk Committee, the Directors have completed a robust Chief Financial Officer review and assessment of the principal risks in the business making use of this framework, which has ensured that the relevant 26 February 2016 risks are identified and managed and that information is shared at an appropriate level.
Full details of these risks are provided in the Risks to our Strategy pages of the Strategic report.
The Board subjected the ERM Framework to a detailed review in December.
The Directors found it was an effective mechanism through which the principal risks and the Companys risk appetite and tolerances could be tested and challenged.
The Directors responsibiliy for accounting records The Directors have examined the accounting records kept in the business and have determined that they are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable 76 accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
