FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company 110 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Section 6: Company financial statements Company balance sheet at 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Notes m m Noncurrent assets Investment in subsidiary undertakings 6.2 164.2 150.5 164.2 150.5 Current assets Trade and other receivables 6.4 13.6 109.3 Cash and cash equivalents 6.5 5.0 3.8 18.6 113.1 Total assets 182.8 263.6 Equity capital and reserves Share capital 4.1 9.2 9.2 Own share reserve 4.2 0.2 0.2 Other reserve 4.2 8.0 8.0 Retained earnings 144.4 238.9 Total equity 161.4 255.9 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 6.7 21.4 7.7 Current income tax liability 21.4 7.7 Total liabilities 21.4 7.7 Total equity and liabilities 182.8 263.6 The financial statements of Jupiter Fund Management plc registered number 6150195 on pages 111 to 116 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 26 February 2016.
They were signed on its behalf by Philip Johnson Chief Financial Officer 111 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Section 6: Company financial statements Company statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Notes m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 6.6 134.3 82.0 Income tax paid 0.2 Net cash inflows from operating activities 134.3 81.8 Cash flows from financing activities Purchase of shares by EBT 20.9 12.3 Repayment of bank loans 11.0 Finance costs paid 0.1 0.2 Dividends paid 4.3 112.1 56.7 Net cash outflows from financing activities 133.1 80.2 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1.2 1.6 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 3.8 2.2 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 6.5 5.0 3.8 112 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Company statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2015 Own Share share Other Retained capital reserve reserve earnings Total m m m m m At 1 January 2014 9.2 0.4 8.0 294.8 311.6 Loss for the year 1.3 1.3 Total comprehensive income 1.3 1.3 Vesting of ordinary shares and options 0.2 0.8 1.0 Dividends paid 56.7 56.7 Share-based payments 12.9 12.9 Purchase of shares by EBT 11.6 11.6 Current tax Total transactions with owners 0.2 54.6 54.4 At 31 December 2014 9.2 0.2 8.0 238.9 255.9 Profit for the year 24.1 24.1 Total comprehensive income 24.1 24.1 Vesting of ordinary shares and options 0.1 0.6 0.7 Dividends paid 112.1 112.1 Share-based payments 13.7 13.7 Purchase of shares by EBT 0.1 20.8 20.9 Total transactions with owners 118.6 118.6 At 31 December 2015 9.2 0.2 8.0 144.4 161.4 Notes 4.1 4.2 4.2 113 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Section 6: Company financial statements N No otte es t s to t o th he C e Co om mp pa an ny fi y fin na an nc cia ial s l stta atte em me en ntts s continued 6.1.
"Accounting policies Basis of preparation The separate financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and IFRS IC interpretations ""IFRS adopted by the EU"" and with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS."
The principal accounting policies adopted are the same as those set out in Sections 1 5 of the Groups financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Act not to present its own income statement.
The Companys profit for the year was 24.1m 2014: 1.3m loss.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are held at cost less provision for impairment.
Sharebased payments The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to the investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity in the Company financial statements.
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 150.5 137.6 Share-based payments 13.7 12.9 At 31 December 164.2 150.5 During 2015 and 2014, a number of subsidiary companies granted options to their employees over the shares of Jupiter Fund Management plc.
This created an investment by the Company in those entities.
Related undertakings The following information relates to the Companys operating subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2015 and 2014, these were all indirectly held, with the exception of Jupiter Fund Management Group Ltd, whose shares were directly held by the Company.
All subsidiaries have the same reporting dates and period of reporting as the parent Company.
The parent held directly or indirectly all of the issued ordinary shares and controlled all of the voting rights in all of the subsidiaries in 2015 and 2014.
All subsidiaries have been consolidated in the Group financial statements.
Name Registered office Principal activities Jupiter Investment Management Group Limited 70 Victoria Street, London Investment holding company Jupiter Asset Management Limited 70 Victoria Street, London Investment management Jupiter Fund Management Group Limited 70 Victoria Street, London Investment holding company Jupiter Asset Management Group Limited 70 Victoria Street, London Investment holding company Knightsbridge Asset Management Limited 70 Victoria Street, London Investment holding company The Knightsbridge Trust Limited 70 Victoria Street, London Dormant Jupiter Asset Management N America Inc 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, USA Dormant Jupiter Asset Management Hong Kong Limited 17th Floor, Alexandra House, 18 Chater Road, Central, Hong Kong Investment management Jupiter Asset Management Asia Private Limited 30 Raffles Place, No.
11-00 Chevron House, Singapore Investment management Jupiter Asset Management Switzerland AG Bahnhofstrasse 98-100, 8001 Zurich Investment management Jupiter Asset Management Canada Limited 45 OConnor Street, Ottawa, Canada Dormant Tyndall Holdings Limited 70 Victoria Street, London Investment holding company Tyndall Investments Limited 70 Victoria Street, London Investment holding company Jupiter International Holdings Limited 41 Cedar Avenue, Hamilton, Bermuda Investment holding company Jupiter Asset Management Bermuda Limited 41 Cedar Avenue, Hamilton, Bermuda Dormant Jupiter Unit Trust Managers Limited 70 Victoria Street, London Unit trust management 114 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information The following information relates to seed capital investments which are judged to be subsidiaries or associates of the Group at 31 December 2015.
Percentage of ordinary shares indirectly held Name Registered office Principal activities by the Company Jupiter Global Fund SICAV: Asia Pacific 6 Route fide Trves, Senningerberg, SICAV sub-fund 70% Luxembourg Jupiter Global Fund SICAV: Global Emerging Markets 6 Route fide Trves, Senningerberg, SICAV sub-fund 79% Unconstrained Luxembourg Jupiter Enhanced Distribution Fund 70 Victoria Street, London Unit trust 72% Jupiter US Small and Midcap Companies Fund 70 Victoria Street, London Unit trust 22% The following information relates to seed capital investments where the Group holds more than 20 per cent.
of the shares in any single share class, but over which the Group neither has control nor significant influence.
Name Registered office Principal activity Jupiter Global Fund SICAV: Dynamic Bond 6 Route fide Trves, Senningerberg, Luxembourg SICAV sub-fund Jupiter Global Fund SICAV: Europa 6 Route fide Trves, Senningerberg, Luxembourg SICAV sub-fund Jupiter Global Emerging Markets Fund 70 Victoria Street, London Unit trust Jupiter European Feeder SICAV 6 Route fide Trves, Senningerberg, Luxembourg SICAV sub-fund Jupiter Global Fund SICAV: European Opportunities 6 Route fide Trves, Senningerberg, Luxembourg SICAV sub-fund Jupiter Global Fund SICAV: Global Financials 6 Route fide Trves, Senningerberg, Luxembourg SICAV sub-fund JMF - Jupiter Merlin International Equities Portfolio 6 Route fide Trves, Senningerberg, Luxembourg SICAV sub-fund Jupiter Global Fund SICAV: Strategic Total Return 6 Route fide Trves, Senningerberg, Luxembourg SICAV sub-fund 6.4.
Trade and other receivables 2015 2014 m m Amounts owed from subsidiaries 12.8 108.5 Trade receivables 0.7 0.7 Social security and other taxes 0.1 0.1 13.6 109.3 6.5.
Cash and cash equivalents 2015 2014 m m Cash at bank and in hand 0.2 0.8 Cash held by EBT 4.8 3.0 5.0 3.8 6.6.
Cash flows from operating activities 2015 2014 m m Operating profit loss 24.3 1.1 Adjustments for: Decrease in trade and other receivables 95.7 74.7 Increase in trade and other payables 13.7 7.6 Cash inflows on exercise of share options 0.6 0.8 Cash generated from operations 134.3 82.0 6.7.
Trade and other payables 2015 2014 m m Accruals 0.2 0.2 Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 21.2 7.5 21.4 7.7 115 The amounts due to subsidiary undertakings are unsecured, interest free and are payable on demand.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Section 6: Company financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued 6.8.
Financial instruments Financial instruments by category The carrying value of the financial instruments of the Company at 31 December is shown below: Other Total Loans and financial financial Non-financial receivables liabilities instruments instruments Total 2015 m m m m m Investment in subsidiary undertaking 164.2 164.2 Current trade and other receivables 13.5 13.5 0.1 13.6 Cash and cash equivalents 5.0 5.0 5.0 Current trade and other payables 21.2 0.2 21.4 21.4 Total 2.7 0.2 2.9 164.3 161.4 Other Total Loans and financial financial Non-financial receivables liabilities instruments instruments Total 2014 m m m m m Investment in subsidiary undertaking 150.5 150.5 Current trade and other receivables 109.2 109.2 0.1 109.3 Cash and cash equivalents 3.8 3.8 3.8 Current trade and other payables 7.5 0.2 7.7 7.7 Total 105.5 0.2 105.3 150.6 255.9 At 31 December 2015 and 2014 the Company did not hold any financial instruments measured at fair value.
The Companys exposure to price, foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and liquidity risk is not considered to be material and, therefore, no further information is provided.
Related parties Investment in subsidiary undertakings are disclosed in Note 6.2 and the amounts due from and to subsidiaries in Notes 6.4 and 6.7 respectively.
In 2015, Jupiter Fund Management Group Limited repaid the Company 108.5m 2014: 54.5m of the intercompany loan.
Key management compensation The Company also considers transactions with its key management personnel as related party transactions.
Key management personnel is defined as the Directors together with other members of the Executive Committee.
The aggregate compensation paid or payable to key management for employee services is shown below: 2015 2014 m m Short-term employee benefits 1.7 1.2 Share-based payments 0.6 0.4 Post-employment benefits 0.1 - 2.4 1.6 With the exception of non-executive Directors, key management personnel compensation is paid for by a Group subsidiary and no recharge is made to the Company.
116 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Independent auditors report to the members of Jupiter Fund Management plc Report on the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Our opinion preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs In our opinion: as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company Jupiter Fund Management plcs Group financial statements and financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions Company financial statements the financial statements give a of the Companies Act 2006. true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups Our audit approach profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the The scope of our audit and our areas of focus year then ended: We conducted our audit in accordance with International The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing The Company financial statements have been properly prepared the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting Companies Act 2006: and estimates that involved making assumptions and considering The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the we also addressed the risk of management override of internal Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement What we have audited due to fraud.
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts 2015 the Annual Report, comprise: The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on The Consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 31 our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are December 2015: identified as areas of focus in the table below.
This years areas The Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of focus exclude the one off gain on sale of the private client of comprehensive income for the year then ended: contracts which took place in 2014.
We have also set out how we The Consolidated and Company statements of cash flows for tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to the year then ended: provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and The Consolidated and Company statements of changes in any comments we make on the results of our procedures should equity for the year then ended: and be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of identified by our audit.
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Our audit approach - overview Audit Areas Materiality scope of focus Overall Group materiality: We conducted an audit of the complete financial Revenue recognition 8.2m which represents 5 per information of Jupiter Asset Management Limited and Share based payments cent.
Jupiter Unit Trust Managers Limited because they expense each represent more than 15 per cent.
of the profit Impairment of goodwill before tax of the Group.
Current and deferred tax We also audited the complete financial information of Jupiter Investment Management Group Limited as a number of balances, including investments, are material to the Group financial statements.
We also performed audit procedures on the Group consolidation, including consolidated Jupiter funds, and the financial statement disclosures.
Taken together, our audit work accounted for more than 95 per cent.
of Group revenues and Group profit 117 before tax.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Jupiter Fund Management plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue recognition We understood and evaluated the design and implementation of Refer to Note 1.1.
Basis of preparation key controls, including relevant Information Technology systems and other accounting policies.
and controls, in place around revenue.
This included both in-house and outsourced activities at HSBC Security Services UK Limited Revenue is the most significant balance in the Consolidated HSBC, J. P Morgan Bank Luxembourg S. A JP Morgan, J. P income statement.
Revenue is made of a number of Morgan Chase Bank N. A JP Morgan and International Financial streams including: Data Services Limited IFDS.
Gross management fees, 370.1m: To obtain audit evidence over the key controls, both in house and Performance fees, 14.6m: at the outsourced providers, supporting the calculation and Initial charges and box profits, 18.8m: recognition of revenue, we either: and result from the business activities of the Group.
Performed testing of key controls to obtain evidence of operational effectiveness throughout the year: or We focused on a number of aspects of revenue as follows: Assessed the control environment in place to the extent that it was relevant to our audit.
This assessment of the operating and Gross management fees accounting structure in place involved obtaining and reading The calculation of Unit Trust and SICAV gross management the reports issued by the independent auditor of the third party fees, which make up the majority of the revenue balance, is providers in accordance with generally accepted assurance calculated as a percentage of the AUM of the funds managed standards for such work.
We then identified those key controls by the Group.
Assessing the AUM of these funds involves on which we could place reliance to provide audit evidence.
judgement as it is correlated to the market value of a range of Where the controls reports we relied on were not prepared as financial instruments held by these funds.
Various valuation at 31 December 2015, we obtained a bridging letter and methodologies are used to value those instruments, some assessed the period not covered.
straightforward and some more complex and judgemental, which leaves room for manipulation of the fund AUM and as We found that the key controls on which we placed reliance for such the gross management fee: the purposes of our audit were designed, implemented and The revenue from segregated mandates investment trusts is operating effectively.
manually calculated as a percentage, per Investment Management Agreements IMAs, of the segregated The specific audit evidence over each revenue stream is mandates investment trust holdings.
The value of the holdings summarised below: is provided by either the administrator or the segregated mandates investment trusts, which are clients of the Group.
Gross management fees Given the manual process in valuing these holdings the risk of For the Unit Trusts we obtained evidence over the valuation of misstatement through the manipulation of the valuations is AUM by identifying those key controls in the HSBC control increased: and reports and in-house controls and performed detailed testing Rebates are calculated by a combination of in-house systems which included repricing and existence testing over investments and external parties mandated by the Group to sell units to corroborate the AUM valuation: shares of funds it manages, with the outputs of both processes For the SICAVs we obtained evidence over the valuation of being monitored and stored on spreadsheets which increases AUM by identifying and relying on those key controls in the JP the risk of error.
Morgan control report as mentioned above: We obtained AUM and management fee evidence direct from Performance fees JP Morgan and HSBC.
We then reconciled management fees Performance fees are often one-off or infrequent and involve either calculated by the administrators or recalculated by us to complex calculations and this increases the risk of error.
amounts included in the Group financial statements: and We reconciled a sample of management fee rates to the Initial charges and box profits prospectuses published on Jupiters website or other supporting Initial charges vary per different client and contractual terms documentation.
and the calculation of these fees are thus more susceptible to the risk of error: and Box profits vary from one transaction to another and are quite complex due to the various different terms and pricing in place and as such there is an increased risk of error.
118 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Segregated mandates investment trusts HSBC are appointed the administrator for segregated mandates unless the client specifies otherwise.
For those in our testing sample administered by HSBC we obtained evidence over the AUM as explained above.
For clients in our sample where Jupiter are not responsible for administration, the AUM information came from third parties: For the investment trusts we obtained evidence over the AUM through confirming the operating effectiveness of key controls through evaluating the JP Morgan control report: We reperformed the management fee calculation over a sample of invoices agreeing a sample of the key inputs back to source documentation including the IMA and compared to amounts booked: and Manually recalculated a sample of management fees.
Rebates We used data auditing techniques on the underlying data to recalculate the SICAV rebates computed by the fund administrators.
We relied on controls at JP Morgan for the value of the holdings and pricing, agreed a sample of rates to discount forms signed by the clients of the Group and reconciled the amounts back to the general ledger: We used data auditing techniques to recalculate the Unit Trust rebates computed by IFDS or Jupiters rebate calculator system.
We relied on controls for the value of the holdings and pricing and agreed a sample of rates to discount forms signed by the clients of the Group: and We agreed the classification of amounts between rebates and renewal commissions by confirming for a sample whether the discounts had been paid to end investors or to intermediaries.
To do this we looked at the discount forms signed by the investors and at the agent websites.
Performance fees For a sample of performance fees we assessed whether the fee had crystallised and hence had been recognised in the appropriate year: We reperformed the computation of performance fees for that sample to check that it had been calculated in accordance with the signed IMAs: and To test for completeness we assessed whether a sample of eligible but unearned performance fees should have been earned in the year.
Initial charges and box profits We used data auditing techniques to recompute initial charges calculated by Jupiters calculation system and box profits calculated by IFDSs calculation tool and reconciled the results back to the general ledger: Based on work over controls explained above we relied on key controls at IFDS: and Agreed the rate and terms to the discount forms for a sample of clients paying initial charges.
Based on our work: Revenue has been appropriately measured and recognised in accordance with the various contractual agreements in place with customers and service providers: and The judgements made by management were supportable and reasonable in the context of materiality.
119 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Jupiter Fund Management plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Share based payments expense We understood and evaluated the design and implementation of Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee report, Note 1.5.
Share the control environment in place over the share based payment based payments and Note 5.1.
Basis of preparation and other expense and performed the following to address the risks accounting policies.
identified for each type of share based payment transaction: Obtained and read the Deeds of Grant for new and amended The share based payment expense is judgemental in nature, awards in the year: including management determination of the fair value of the Tested each of the new awards in the year by checking that awards using a pricing model, which involves estimating they were appropriately authorised, consistent with scheme performance, service conditions and leaver rate.
Also involved is plans, classified correctly as equity or cash settled and used an the interpretation of complex terms in the scheme agreements, appropriate share price: the number of schemes in operation, the required record keeping Obtained and read valuation reports for new schemes and and the manual nature of the calculations.
grants made in the year and tested those valuations by agreeing key inputs used to source documentation and During the year Jupiter Fund Management plc issued a special independently recalculated the value of the award using an dividend which led to a non-beneficial modification of the current industry accepted pricing model: share schemes in existence.
If the modification was classed as For cash settled parts of the awards, for example, national beneficial, this would have changed the accounting treatment insurance, we calculated current charge for the year based on and we therefore focused on this classification.
year end share price information: Assessed the reasonableness of the estimates in relation to performance conditions and or service conditions for existing awards.
The key assumptions in calculating the share based payment expense are the leaver rate and performance conditions.
We assessed the reasonableness of managements judgements by examining historical data and performing sensitivity analyses: Tested a sample of options exercised during the year to check they were exercised in accordance with the terms of the grant, recorded at the correct value and appropriately authorised: Obtained details of all outstanding awards and checked that the charge was spread in accordance with the appropriate period of the award: For the modification in relation to the special dividend we assessed whether the modification had been applied to the schemes correctly and accounted for in line with IFRS2: and Assessed whether all disclosures required by IFRS 2 Share based payment had been made and appropriately reflected the scheme agreements and the calculations and estimates made.
Based on our work, the treatment and disclosures relating to the schemes, and changes made to schemes in the year, were determined to be consistent with the requirements of IFRS 2.
Furthermore, we found that the pricing model used to value the awards was in line with accepted market practice and that the assumptions made by management were appropriate.
120 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment of goodwill We obtained, understood and challenged managements Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee report, Note 3.1.
Goodwill impairment review and checked that it was in compliance with the and Note 5.1.
Basis of preparation and other accounting policies.
requirements of IAS 36 by performing the following: We evaluated the discounted cash flow, dividend growth and Goodwill is the most significant balance in the Consolidated market capitalisation calculations, checking the relevant inputs balance sheet.
to supporting documentation, this included challenging management on key assumptions within the calculations.
In Management are required by IAS 36 Impairment of assets to particular we compared the cash flow forecasts to the 3 year perform an annual impairment review and consider if there are Board approved budget: any impairment indicators in respect of the carrying value of We evaluated the sensitivity analysis performed and discussed goodwill.
with management the likelihood and impacts of such changes: We determined that there was reasonable headroom in The carrying value of the cash generating unit containing the managements fair value less costs to sell calculations under all goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the three calculations: and higher of value in use and the fair value less costs of disposal.
We also read and assessed the disclosures made in the Management has assumed that the Group is made of one financial statements and determined that they were sufficient.
As such the Group is one cash generating unit.
Based on our work, we found that managements goodwill impairment review was consistent with the requirements of IAS 36 Management have used the fair value less costs to sell approach and that all appropriate matters had been considered by under IAS 36.
They have calculated this via a discounted cash management as part of that review.
flow, dividend growth model and market capitalisation.
As they have not identified any impairment they have not considered value in use.
The impairment review involves a number of significant judgements to be made by management such as forecasts and discount rates.
Current and deferred tax In assessing the current and deferred tax, we: Refer to Note 1.10.
Deferred tax Assessed whether management had reflected appropriately the and Note 5.1.
changes in UK corporation tax in their current and deferred income tax calculations: The manual processes and judgements involved increase the risk Obtained and read tax working papers for the Groups material of misstatement and as such, we have considered current and legal entities and obtained evidence in relation to positions deferred taxation to be an area of focus.
taken: Obtained the deferred tax calculations and assessed the The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the recoverability of the deferred tax assets.
We evaluated whether tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet the temporary difference will reverse in the future and whether date in the countries where the Group operates and generates there is sufficient taxable profit available against which the taxable items.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken temporary difference can be utilised: and in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax Tested whether the tax disclosures and presentation in the regulation is subject to interpretation.
Management establish Annual Report complied with IAS 1 Presentation of financial provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected statements and IAS 12 Income taxes.
to be paid to tax authorities.
We also evaluated whether the Group had met its compliance Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences arising obligations for the material territories in which the Group operates, between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying and as such we: amounts in the financial statements.
This risk related to the recoverability of the deferred tax assets recognised.
Evaluated the tax reporting and compliance position of the Group including consideration of ongoing or new tax audits The calculation of the current and deferred tax is produced being undertaken by fiscal authorities in the UK: and manually and is based on a number of supporting complex Assessed the conclusions reached by management in relation calculations including share based payments, deferred bonuses, to the current transfer pricing arrangements, worldwide debt the spreading of initial charges and commissions.
cap, changes to the Group structure and controlled foreign companies position.
Based on our work performed above, managements assumptions and judgements in respect of the Groups current and deferred tax positions are in line with available evidence.
The tax disclosures presented within the financial statements are in line 121 with IAS 1 and IAS 12.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Jupiter Fund Management plc continued How we tailored the audit scope Going concern We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors sufficient work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statement, set out in the Directors report, in relation to going statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation The Group is structured along a single business line being to the Directors statement about whether they considered it investment management.
The Group is composed of the appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Company, incorporated in the United Kingdom, and subsidiary financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw entities in the United Kingdom and abroad, and certain attention to.
The Group is operated centrally from the UK.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in We performed an audit of the complete financial information of preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis Jupiter Asset Management Limited and Jupiter Unit Trust presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources Managers Limited because they are financially significant to the to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do overall group financial statements, each representing more than 15 so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements per cent.
of the profit before tax of the Group.
We also performed were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the an audit of the complete financial information of Jupiter Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, Investment Management Group Limited because there are a because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, number of balances within this company, including investments, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and which are material to the Group financial statements.
We also Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
performed audit procedures on the Group consolidation, including consolidated Jupiter funds, and the financial statement disclosures.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Taken together, our audit work accounted for more than 95 per Companies Act 2006 opinions cent.
of Group revenues and Group profit before tax.
In our opinion: Materiality the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of Report for the financial year for which the financial statements materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent with respect to internal control and risk management systems of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, statements.
both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 8.2m 2014: 6.6m.
How we determined it 5 per cent.
This is a change from 2014 where we used adjusted profit before tax to take into account the sale of the private client contracts.
Rationale for We believe that profit before tax is the benchmark applied primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group, and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.4m 2014: 0.3m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
122 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors in the Directors We have no exceptions to report.
Responsibilities and Compliance Statements, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report in the Audit and Risk We have no exceptions to report.
Committee report, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation in the Directors Responsibilities and We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Compliance Statements section of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
the Directors explanation in the Directors report section of the We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
123 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Jupiter Fund Management plc continued Adequacy of accounting records and information and What an audit of financial statements involves explanations received An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable if, in our opinion: assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an We have not received all the information and explanations we assessment of: require for our audit: or Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been applied and adequately disclosed: received from branches not visited by us: or The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by The Company financial statements and the part of the Directors the Directors: and Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
The overall presentation of the financial statements.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our Directors remuneration own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion statements.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the We test and examine information, using sampling and other Companies Act 2006. auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain Other Companies Act 2006 reporting audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you substantive procedures or a combination of both.
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information arising from this responsibility.
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is Corporate governance statement apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing if, in our opinion, a Corporate Governance Statement has not the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material been prepared by the Company.
We have no exceptions to misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for report arising from this responsibility.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor of the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our for and on behalf of  LLP review.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors 26 February 2016 As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities and Compliance Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
a T he maintenance and integrity of Jupiter Fund Management plcs website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 124 dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OTHER INFORMATION 125
