Financial statements 152 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Glossary and definitions Auto-enrolment new legal duties being phased in that require employers to automatically enrol workers into a workplace pension.
Buy-In an exercise enabling a pension scheme to obtain an insurance contract that pays a guaranteed stream of income sufficient to cover the liabilities of a group of the schemes members.
Buy-Out an exercise that wholly transfers the liability for paying member benefits from the pension scheme to an insurer which then becomes responsible for paying the members directly.
Capped Drawdown A Non-marketed product from Just Retirement previously described as Fixed Term Annuity.
Capped Drawdown products ceased to be available to new customers when the tax legislation changed for pensions in April 2015.
Care Plan a specialist insurance contract contributing to the costs of long-term care by paying a guaranteed income to a registered care provider for the remainder of a persons life.
Combined Group following completion of the proposed Merger, JRP Group plc and each of its consolidated subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings comprising the Just Retirement Group and the Partnership Assurance Group.
Defined benefit pension scheme a pension scheme, usually backed or sponsored by an employer, that pays members a guaranteed level of retirement income based on length of membership and earnings.
Defined contribution DC pension scheme a work-based or personal pension scheme in which contributions are invested to build up a fund that can be used by the individual member to provide retirement benefits.
fide-risk fide-risking an action carried out by the trustees of a pension scheme with the aim of transferring investment, inflation and longevity risk from the sponsoring employer and scheme to a third party such as an insurer.
Employee benefit consultant EBC an adviser offering specialist knowledge to employers on the legal, regulatory and practical issues of rewarding staff including non-wage compensation such as pensions, health and life insurance and profit sharing.
Equity release products and services enabling homeowners to generate income or lump sums by accessing some of the value of the home while continuing to live in it.
Flexi-access drawdown the option introduced in April 2015 for DC pension savers who have taken tax-free cash to take a taxable income directly from their remaining pension with no limit on withdrawals.
Guaranteed income for life retirement income products which transfer the investment and longevity risk to the company and provide the retiree a guarantee to pay an agreed level of income for as long as a retiree lives.
On a joint-life basis, continues to pay a guaranteed income to a surviving spouse partner.
Guaranteed Guidance see Pensions Wise below.
GIfL Just Retirement modern individual segment solutions that provide customers with a guaranteed income for life.
Previously reported as Individually Underwritten Annuities IUA.
Lifetime mortgages an equity release product that allows homeowners to take out a loan secured on the value of their home, typically with the loan plus interest repaid when the home is no longer needed.
Medical underwriting the process of evaluating an individuals current health, medical history and lifestyle factors such as smoking when pricing an insurance contract.
Pension Reforms the UK Governments pension reforms, implemented in April 2015.
Pensions Wise the free and impartial service introduced in April 2015 to provide Guaranteed Guidance to defined contribution pension savers considering taking money from their pensions.
PrognoSys a next generation underwriting system, which is based on individual mortality curves derived from Just Retirements own data collected since its launch in 2004.
Retirement Income sales in reference to Just Retirement Group sales or products collective term for GIfL, DB and Care Plan.
Retirement sales in reference to Just Retirement Group sales or products collective term for Retirement Income sales andCapped Drawdown.
Regulated financial advice personalised financial advice for retail customers by qualified advisers who are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Simplified advice regulated financial advice offering a limited service on a limited or specialist area of financial need, such as retirement, to retail customers taking into account information relevant to that need.
Solvency II an EU Directive that codifies and harmonises the EU insurance regulation.
Primarily this concerns the amount of capital that EU insurance companies must hold to reduce the risk of insolvency.
Trustees individuals with the legal powers to hold, control and administer the property of a trust such as a pension scheme for the purposes specified in the trust deed.
Pension scheme trustees are obliged to act in the best interests of the schemes members.
Just Retirement Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 www.
com Just Retirement Group plc Vale House Roebuck Close Bancroft Road Reigate Surrey RH2 7RU
