Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Significant accounting policies General information Just Retirement Group plc the Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 13 June 2013 as a public company limited by shares.
The Companys registered office is Vale House, Roebuck Close, Bancroft Road, Reigate, Surrey, RH2 7RU.
1.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union effective for accounting periods commencing on or before 1 July 2014 and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group has adopted the following new accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards as of 1 July 2014: IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements effective 1 January 2014 the standard defines the principle of control and establishes control as the basis for determining which entities are consolidated in the consolidated financial statements.
It states that an investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has the rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Adoption of IFRS 10 has not resulted in any change in the entities which are determined to be subsidiaries of the Group.
IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities effective 1 January 2014 the standard provides the disclosure requirements which apply to all entities that have an interest in a subsidiary, a joint arrangement, an associate or an unconsolidated structured entity.
The relevant disclosures are included in note 35 but are not significantly affected by the new requirements.
The following new accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to existing accounting standards in issue, but not yet effective or endorsed by the EU, have not been early adopted by the Group.
Unless stated, the new and amended standards and interpretations are being assessed but are not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments effective 1 January 2018, not yet endorsed.
IFRS 9 will replace IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
IFRS 9 has two measurement categories: amortised cost and fair value.
All equity instruments are measured at fair value.
A debt instrument is measured at amortised cost only if held to collect contractual cash flows and the cash flows represent principal and interest.
For liabilities measured at fair value, the fair value change due to an entitys own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, unless this creates an accounting mismatch.
IFRS 9 was amended to incorporate a new general hedge accounting model.
Thenew requirements change what qualifies as a hedged item and some of the restrictions on the use of some hedging instruments.
IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers effective 1 January 2017, not yet endorsed.
IFRS 15 specifies how and when an entity recognises revenue, providing a single, principles-based model to be applied to all contracts with customers, whilst requiring more informative and relevant disclosures.
Insurance contracts, although contracts with customers, are outside the scope of IFRS 15.
Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure initiative effective 1 January 2016, not yet endorsed.
The amendments clarify guidance on materiality and aggregation, the presentation of subtotals, the structure of financial statements and the disclosure of accounting policies.
Other changes in accounting policy To reflect the significant increase in Defined Benefit fide-risking contract revenue during the year to 30 June 2015, the premium revenue accounting policy has been reviewed and has been updated to reflect the slightly different nature of Defined Benefit fide-risking contracts and Individual Annuity contracts.
This change has no impact on the premium revenue recognised in the prior year to 30 June 2014.
1.2 Significant accounting policies and the use of judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to select accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect items reported in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Consolidated statement of financial position, other primary statements and Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Financial statements 92 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued The major areas of judgement used as part of accounting policy application are summarised below.
Accounting policy Item involving judgement Critical accounting judgement 1.7 Classification of insurance and investment contracts Assessment of significance of insurance risk transferred.
1.19 Financial investments Classification of financial investments, including assessment of market observability of valuation inputs.
All estimates are based on managements knowledge of current facts and circumstances, assumptions based on that knowledge and predictions of future events and actions.
Actual results may differ significantly from those estimates.
The table below sets out those items the Group considers susceptible to changes in critical estimates and assumptions together with the relevant accounting policy.
Accounting policy and notes Item involving estimates and assumptions Critical estimates and assumptions 1.23, 21 b, 22 b Measurement of insurance liabilities The critical estimates used in measuring insurance liabilities include the arising from writing Retirement projected future Retirement Income payments and the cost of maintaining Income insurance contracts the reserves.
The key assumptions are the discount rates and mortality experience used in the valuation of future Retirement Income payments.
The valuation discount rates are derived from yields on supporting assets after deducting allowances for default.
Mortality assumptions are derived from the appropriate standard mortality tables, adjusted to reflect the future mortality experience of the policyholders.
Further detail can be found in note 21.
1.20, 21 Measurement of reinsurance assets The critical estimates used in measuring the value of reinsurance assets arising from reinsurance include the projected future cash flows arising from reinsurers share of arrangements the Groups insurance liabilities.
The key assumptions used in the valuation include discount rates and mortality experience, as described above, and assumptions around the reinsurers ability to meet its claim obligations.
1.19, 15 d Measurement of fair value of loans The critical estimates used in valuing loans secured by mortgages include secured by mortgages the projected future receipts of interest and loan repayments, future house prices, and the future costs of administering the loan portfolio.
The key assumptions used as part of the valuation calculation include future property prices and their volatility, mortality, the rate of voluntary redemptions and the liquidity premium added to the swap curve and used to discount the mortgage cash flows.
Further details can be found in note 15 a.
1.3 Consolidation principles The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets, liabilities, results and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are those investees over which the Group has control.
The Group has control over an investee if all of the following are met: 1 it has power over the investee: 2 it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and 3 it has the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its own returns.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are excluded from consolidation from the date on which control ceases.
All inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised surpluses and deficits on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned on acquisition to ensure consistency with Group policies.
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations.
Under this method, the cost of acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration at date of acquisition and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The excess of the consideration transferred and the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 93 1 Significant accounting policies continued 1.4 Segments The Groups segmental results are presented on a basis consistent with internal reporting used by the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to assess the performance of operating segments and the allocation of resources.
The CODM has been identified as the Group Executive Committee.
The internal reporting used by the CODM includes product information which comprises analysis of product revenues, LTM advances and amounts written under investment contracts and information on operating profit and profit before tax for the Groups operating segments.
Product information is analysed by product line and includes DB, GIfL, Care Plans, LTM and Capped drawdown products.
Information on operating profit and profit before tax used by the CODM is presented on an operating segment basis.
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it earns revenues and incurs expenses.
The operating segments from which the Group derives revenues and incurs expenses are as follows: The writing of insurance products for distribution to the ator in-retirement market, which is undertaken through the activities of the life company: The arranging of guaranteed income for life contracts through regulated advice and intermediary services: and The provision of licensed software to financial advisers.
Operating segments, where certain materiality thresholds in relation to total results from operating segments are not exceeded, are combined when determining reportable segments.
For segmental reporting, the arranging of guaranteed income for life contracts, providing intermediary mortgage advice and arranging, plus the provision of licensed software, are included in Other segments.
Other Group activities, such as capital and liquidity management, and investment activities, are reported within corporate activities.
The information on operating profit and profit before tax used by the CODM is presented on a combined product basis within the insurance operating segment and is not analysed further by product.
1.5 Operating profit The Group reports operating profit as an alternative measure of profit which the Group uses for decision making and performance measurement.
The operating profit represents a combination of both the profits generated from new business written in the period and profits expected to emerge from the in-force book of business, together with the actual operating experience where different from that assumed at the start of the period.
In addition, operating profit includes the impacts of changes to future operating assumptions applied in the period.
New business profits represent expected investment returns on financial instruments backing shareholder and policyholder funds after allowances for expected movements in liabilities and acquisition costs.
Profits arising from the in-force book of business represent the expected unwind of prudent reserves above best estimates for mortality, corporate bond defaults and, with respect to lifetime mortgages, no-negative guarantee and early redemptions.
Operating profit excludes the impairment and amortisation of goodwill and other intangible assets, restructuring costs and other exceptional items.
Exceptional items are those items that, in the Directors view, are required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their nature or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Variances between actual and expected investment returns due to economic and market changes are also disclosed outside operating profit.
1.6 Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in profit or loss.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to sterling at the rates of exchange at the reporting date.
The revenues and expenses are translated to sterling at the average rates of exchange for the period.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation to sterling are classified as equity movements and recognised in the Groups foreign currency translation reserve, and reported in other comprehensive income in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Financial statements 94 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued 1.7 Classification of insurance and investment contracts The measurement and presentation of assets, liabilities, income and expenses arising from life and pensions business contracts is dependent upon the classification of those contracts as either insurance or investment contracts.
A contract is classified as insurance only if it transfers significant insurance risk.
Insurance risk is significant if an insured event could cause an insurer to pay significant additional benefits to those payable if no insured event occurred.
A contract that is classified as an insurance contract remains an insurance contract until all rights and obligations are extinguished or expire.
Any contracts not considered to be insurance contracts under IFRS are classified as investment contracts.
Capped Drawdown pension business contracts are classified as investment contracts as there is no transfer of longevity risk due to the fixed term nature of the contract.
1.8 Premium revenue All premium revenue is in respect of single premium insurance contract business.
To reflect the significant increase in Defined Benefit fide-risking contract revenue during the year to 30 June 2015, the premium revenue accounting policy has been reviewed and has been updated to reflect the slightly different nature of Defined Benefit fide-risking contracts and Individual GIfL contracts.
Premium revenue in respect of Individual GIfL contracts is accounted for when the premiums are received, which coincides with when the liability to pay the GIfL contract is established.
Premium revenue in respect of Defined Benefit fide-risking contracts is accounted for when the premiums are due for payment, which isthe date from which the policy is effective.
If a timing difference occurs between the date from which the policy is effective and the receipt of payment, the amount due for payment but not yet received is recognised as a receivable in the Consolidated statement of financial position.
Facilitated adviser charges, which have arisen since 1 January 2013 following the implementation of the Retail Distribution Review RDR, are not accounted for within premium revenue, and do not represent a charge on the Group.
Deposits collected under investment contracts are not accounted for through the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, except for fee income and attributable investment income, but are accounted for directly through the Consolidated statement of financial position as an adjustment to the investment contract liability.
Reinsurance premiums payable in respect of reinsurance treaties are accounted for when the reinsurance premiums are due for payment under the terms of the contract.
Reinsurance premiums previously incurred can be recaptured under certain conditions and the recapture can arise once reinsurance financing for an underwriting year is fully repaid.
1.9 Net investment income Investment income consists of interest receivable for the year, and realised and unrealised gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues.
Realised gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities occur on disposal or transfer and represent the difference between the proceeds received, net of transaction costs, and the original cost.
Unrealised gains and losses arising on financial assets and liabilities represent the difference between the carrying value at the end of the reporting period and the carrying value at the start of the reporting period or purchase value during the year, less the reversal of previously recognised unrealised gains and losses in respect of disposals made during the year.
1.10 Fee and commission income Fee and commission income, which consists of fee income for initial advances made on loans secured by mortgages, investment management fees, administration fees and commission, are recognised as the services are rendered.
In addition, operating income includes fees from software licensing which are recognised across the license period.
1.11 Claims paid GIfL maturity claims are accounted for when due for payment.
Reinsurance paid claim recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
GIfL death claims are accounted for when notified.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 95 1 Significant accounting policies continued 1.12 Acquisition costs Acquisition costs comprise direct costs such as commission and indirect costs of obtaining and processing new business.
Acquisition costs are not deferred as they relate to single premium business.
1.13 Other operating expenses Other operating expenses, including investment expenses, which comprise fund managers and transaction costs, are recognised on an accruals basis.
Leases, where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor, are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the lessor, are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
1.14 Finance costs Finance costs on deposits received from reinsurers are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Interest on reinsurance financing is accrued in accordance with the terms of the financing arrangements.
Interest on loans and borrowings is accrued in accordance with the terms of the loan agreement.
Loan issue costs are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the term of the loan issued.
Interest expense is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
1.15 Employee benefits Defined contribution plans The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group in funds managed by a third party.
Obligations for contributions to the defined contribution pension scheme are recognised as an expense in profit or loss when due.
Share-based payment transactions Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at grant date, determined using stochastic and scenario-based modelling techniques where appropriate.
The fair value is expensed in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to equity, based on the Groups estimate of the equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments that will eventually vest as a result of changes in non-market-based vesting conditions, and recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income over the remaining vesting period, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Where a leaver is entitled to their scheme benefits, this is treated as an acceleration of the vesting in the period they leave.
Where a scheme is modified before it vests, any change in fair value as a result of the modification is recognised over the remaining vesting period.
Where a scheme is cancelled, this is treated as an acceleration in the period of the vesting of all remaining options.
1.16 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
The calculation of the weighted average number of ordinary shares excludes ordinary shares held in trusts on behalf of employee share schemes.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, excluding ordinary shares held in trusts on behalf of employee share schemes, is adjusted to assume conversion of potential ordinary shares, such as share options granted to employees, if their conversion would dilute earnings per share.
1.17 Intangible assets TM Intangible assets consist of goodwill, which is deemed to have an indefinite useful life, and PrognoSys, PVIF, brand, purchased and internally developed software, which are deemed to have finite useful lives.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the acquired subsidiary and represents the future economic benefit arising from assets that are not capable of being individually identified and separately recognised.
Goodwill is recognised at initial value less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortised, but assessed for impairment annually or when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over the carrying value.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill has been allocated to cash generating units and an impairment is recognised when the carrying value of the cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised directly in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and are not subsequently reversed.
Other intangible assets are recognised if it is probable that the relevant future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group, and are recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairments.
Financial statements 96 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued TM PrognoSys is the Groups proprietary database, which has over 1 million person-years of experience collected over ten years of operations, enhanced by an extensive breadth of external primary and secondary healthcare data and medical literature.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group are capitalised and recognised as an intangible asset.
Direct costs include the software development teams employee costs.
All other costs associated with researching or maintaining computer software programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, which range from three to 16 years.
The useful lives are determined by considering relevant factors, such as usage of the asset, potential obsolescence, competitive position and stability of the industry.
For intangible assets with finite useful lives, impairment testing is performed where there is an indication that the carrying value of the assets may be subject to an impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised where the carrying value of an intangible asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The significant intangible assets recognised by the Group, their useful economic lives and the methods used to determine the cost of intangibles acquired in a business combination are as follows: Intangible asset Estimated useful economic life Valuation method PVIF 16 years Estimated value in-force using IFRS European Embedded Value model Brand 5 years Estimated royalty stream if the rights were to be licensed Distribution network 3 years Estimated discounted cash flow Software 3 years Estimated replacement cost The useful economic lives of intangible assets recognised by the Group other than those acquired in a business combination are as follows: Intangible asset Estimated useful economic life TM PrognoSys 12 years Software 3 years 1.18 Equipment Equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis to write down the cost to residual value over the estimated useful lives as follows: Computer equipment four years Furniture and fittings two years 1.19 Financial investments Classification The Group classifies financial investments in accordance with IAS 39 whereby, subject to specific criteria, they are accounted for at fair value through profit and loss.
This comprises assets designated by management as fair value through profit and loss on inception, as they are managed on a fair value basis, and derivatives that are classified as held for trading.
These investments are measured at fair value with all changes thereon being recognised in investment income in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the assets.
Amounts payable or receivable on unsettled purchases or sales are recognised in other payables or other receivables respectively.
Transaction costs are expensed through profit and loss.
Loans secured by mortgages are recognised when cash is advanced to borrowers.
The Group receives and pledges collateral in the form of cash or gilts in respect of derivative contracts.
Collateral received is recognised as an asset in the Consolidated statement of financial position with a corresponding liability for the repayment in other financial liabilities.
Collateral pledged is recognised in the Consolidated statement of financial position within the appropriate asset classification.
Derivatives are recognised at fair value through profit and loss.
The fair values are obtained from quoted market prices or, if these are not available, by using standard valuation techniques based on discounted cash flow models or option pricing models.
All derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and liabilities when the fair values are negative.
The Group does not use hedge accounting.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 97 1 Significant accounting policies continued The Groups policy is to derecognise financial investments when it is deemed that substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
Use of fair value The Group uses current bid prices to value its investments with quoted prices.
Actively traded investments without quoted prices are valued using prices provided by third parties.
If there is no active established market for an investment, the Group applies an appropriate valuation technique such as discounted cash flow analysis.
Determining the fair value of financial investments when the markets are not active The Group holds certain financial investments for which the markets are not active.
These comprise financial investments which are not quoted in active markets and include loans secured by mortgages, derivatives and other financial investments for which markets are not active.
When the markets are not active, there is generally no or limited observable market data to account for financial investments at fair value.
The determination of whether an active market exists for a financial investment requires managements judgement.
If the market for a financial investment of the Group is not active, the fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
The Group establishes fair value for these financial investments by using quotations from independent third parties or internally developed pricing models.
The valuation technique is chosen with the objective of arriving at a fair value measurement which reflects the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants on the measurement date.
The valuation techniques include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, and discounted cash flow analysis.
The valuation techniques may include a number of assumptions relating to variables such as credit risk and interest rates and, for loans secured by mortgages, mortality, future expenses, voluntary redemptions and house price assumptions.
Changes in assumptions relating to these variables impact the reported fair value of these financial instruments positively or negatively.
The financial investments measured at fair value are classified into the following three-level hierarchy on the basis of the lowest level of inputs that are significant to the fair value measurement of the financial investment concerned: Level 1: Quoted price unadjusted in active markets for identical assets and liabilities: Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable either directly or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3: Significant inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
1.20 Reinsurance Reinsurance assets Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are measured in a consistent manner with insurance liabilities and are classified as reinsurance assets.
If a reinsurance asset is impaired, the carrying value is reduced accordingly and that impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Financial liabilities Where reinsurance contracts entered into by the Group are structured to provide financing, with financing components to be repaid in future periods, such amounts are classified as reinsurance finance and included in other financial liabilities in the Consolidated statement of financial position.
Where reinsurance contracts entered into by the Group require deposits received from reinsurers to be repaid, such amounts are classified as deposits received from reinsurers and included in other financial liabilities in the Consolidated statement of financial position.
Deposits received from reinsurers are valued in accordance with the terms of the reinsurance contracts, which take into account an appropriate discount rate for the timing of expected cash flows.
Amounts receivable payable Where reinsurance contracts the Group has entered into include longevity swap arrangements, such contracts are settled on a net basis and amounts receivable from or payable to the reinsurers are included in the appropriate heading under either receivable and other financial assets or insurance and other payables.
1.21 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, deposits held at call with banks, and other short-term highly liquid investments with less than 90 days maturity from the date of acquisition.
Financial statements 98 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued 1.22 Equity The difference between the proceeds received on issue of the shares, net of share issue costs, and the nominal value of the shares issued is credited to the share premium account.
Interim dividends are recognised in equity in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends are recognised when they have been approved by shareholders.
Where the Company purchases shares for the purposes of employee incentive plans, the consideration paid, net of issue costs, is deducted from equity.
Upon issue or sale any consideration received is credited to equity net of related costs.
The reserve arising on the reorganisation of the Group represents the difference in the value of the shares in the Company and the value of shares in Just Retirement Group Holdings Limited for which they were exchanged as part of the Group reorganisation in November 2013.
1.23 Insurance liabilities Measurement Long-term insurance liabilities arise from the Group writing Retirement Income contracts, including Defined Benefit fide-risking Solutions, and are measured by using estimates of projected future cash flows arising from Retirement Income payments plus the costs of administering them.
Valuation of insurance liabilities is derived using discount rates, adjusted for default allowance, and mortality assumptions, taken from the appropriate mortality tables and adjusted to reflect actual and expected experience.
Liability adequacy test The Group performs adequacy testing on its insurance liabilities to ensure the carrying amount is sufficient to cover the current estimate of future cash flows.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
1.24 Investment contract liabilities Investment contracts are measured at fair value through profit and loss in accordance with IAS 39.
The fair value of investment contracts is estimated using an internal model and determined on a policy-by-policy basis using a prospective valuation of future Retirement Income benefit and expense cash flows, but with an adjustment to amortise any day-one gain over the life of the contract.
1.25 Loans and borrowings Loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs, and subsequently amortised through profit and loss over the period to maturity at the effective rate of interest required to recognise the discounted estimated cash flows to maturity.
1.26 Other provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
The amount recorded as a provision is the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is the present value of the expected expenditure.
1.27 Taxation The current tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the year, using tax rates substantively enacted at the Consolidated statement of financial position date, and after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Tax, including tax relief for losses if applicable, is allocated over profits before taxation and amounts charged or credited to components of other comprehensive income and equity as appropriate.
Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken for deferred tax assets, using the liability method, on all material temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
The principal temporary differences arise from the revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities, including derivative contracts, technical provisions and other insurance items and tax losses carried forward.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 99 2 Net investment income Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2015 2014 m m Interest income: Assets at fair value through profit or loss 196.4 205.6 Movement in fair value: Financial assets and liabilities designated on initial recognition 568.1 267.9 Derivative financial instruments 129.3 16.6 Total net investment income 635.2 456.9 3 Acquisition costs Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2015 2014 m m Commission 10.1 19.7 Other acquisition expenses 8.4 11.4 Total acquisition costs 18.5 31.1 4 Other operating expenses Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2015 2014 m m Personnel expenses note 9 56.6 61.9 Investment expenses and charges 3.7 3.3 Depreciation of equipment 0.5 0.9 Operating lease rentals: land and buildings 1.5 1.3 1 Restructuring costs 5.4 Amortisation of intangible assets 4.2 4.9 Other costs 61.1 49.1 Total other operating expenses 127.6 126.8 1 Restructuring costs include a charge for impairment of intangible assets of 1.9m.
During the period, the following services were provided by the Groups auditor at costs as detailed below.
Services provided by Groups auditor Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2015 2014 m m Fees payable for the audit of the Parent Company and consolidated accounts 41 40 Fees payable for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 313 282 Corporate finance services 1,359 Audit-related assurance services 78 75 Tax compliance services 5 Tax advisory services 28 16 Other assurance services 178 22 Auditor remuneration 643 1,794
