246 OTHER INFORMATION Shareholder information Annual general meeting Registrar The 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM will be held Capita Asset Services is our registrar and they offer many on Thursday, 26 May 2016 at 11am at The Honourable services to make managing your shareholding easier and Artillery Company, Armoury House, City Road, London more efficient.
The AGM provides Legal & General with the Share portal opportunity to meet its shareholders.
The Board regards the AGM as an important opportunity to communicate The Share Portal is a secure online site where you can directly with private investors.
manage your shareholding quickly and easily.
You can: Dividend information View your holding and get an indicative valuation Change your address Dividend per share Arrange to have dividends paid into your bank account This year the directors are recommending the payment Request to receive shareholder communications by of a final dividend of 9.95pence per share.
If you add this email rather than post to your interim dividend of 3.45pence per share, the total dividend recommended for 2015 will be 13.40pence per View your dividend payment history share 2014: 11.25pence per share.
The key dates for the Make dividend payment choices payment of dividends are set out in the important dates Buy and sell shares and access a wealth of stock section on the next page.
market news and information Communications Register your proxy voting instruction Download a stock transfer form Internet To register for the Share Portal just visit Information about the company, including details of www.
All you need is your investor the current share price, is available on the website, code, which can be found on your share certicate or www.
Investor relations Customer support centre Private investors should contact the registrar with Alternatively, you can contact Capitas Customer Support any queries.
Centre which is available to answer any queries you have in relation to your shareholding: Institutional investors can contact the investor relations team by email: investor.
com By phone 0371 402 3341 Financial reports By email landgshares@capita.
co. uk The companys financial reports are available on the By post Capita Asset Services, The Registry, website.
The annual report and accounts are sent to those 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU.
shareholders who have elected to receive paper copies.
Sign up to electronic communications Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive notication by email by registering on www.
com Help us to save paper and get your shareholder information If you receive more than one copy of our communications, quickly and securely by signing up to receive your it could be because you have more than one record on shareholder communications by email.
To avoid duplicate mailings, please Registering for electronic communications is very contact the registrar, who can arrange for your accounts straightforward.
All you need is your investor code, which can be found on your share certicate or dividend conrmation.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 247 OTHER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Corporate sponsored nominee You dont have the inconvenience of depositing a cheque The corporate sponsored nominee allows you to hold Helps reduce cheque fraud shares in Legal & General without the need for a share certicate and enables you to benefit from shorter market If you have a UK bank account you can sign up for this settlement periods.
Individual shareholders hold their Legal service on the Share Portal by clicking on your dividend & General shares in a nominee holding registered in the options and following the on screen instructions or by name of Capita IRG Trustees Nominees Limited.
To join or contacting the Customer Support Centre.
obtain further information contact the registrar.
They will Choose to receive your next dividend in your send you a booklet, outlining the terms and conditions local currency under which your shares will be held.
If you live outside the UK, Capita has partnered with Dividend payment options Deutsche Bank to provide you with a service that will Re-invest your dividends convert your sterling dividends into your local currency at a competitive rate.
You can choose to receive payment Capitas Dividend Re-investment Plan offers a convenient directly into your local bank account, or alternatively, way for shareholders to build up their shareholding by you can be sent a currency draft.
using dividend money to purchase additional shares.
The plan is provided by Capita Asset Services, a trading name You can sign up for this service on the Share Portal of Capita IRG Trustees Limited which is authorised and by clicking on your dividend options and following regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
the on-screen instructions or by contacting the Customer Support Centre.
For more information and an application pack please call 0371 664 0381.
Alternatively you can email For further information contact Capita shares@capita.
Calls cost 12pence per It is important to remember that the value of shares and minute plus your phone companys access charge.
income from them can fall as well as rise and you may not Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the recover the amount of money you invest.
Past performance applicable international rate.
Lines are open between should not be seen as indicative of future performance.
9am5:30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays This arrangement should be considered as part of a in England and Wales.
co. uk Arrange to have your dividends paid direct into Buy and sell shares your bank account A simple and competitively priced service to buy and This means that: sell shares is provided by Capita Asset Services.
Your dividend reaches your bank account on the There is no need to pre-register and there are no payment date complicated application forms to ll in and by visiting It is more secure cheques can sometimes get lost www.
com you can also access a wealth of in the post stock market news and information free of charge.
IMPORTANT DATES: 28 April 2016 Ex-dividend date final dividend 20 May 2016 Last day for DRIP elections 26 May 2016 Annual General Meeting 9 June 2016 Payment of final dividend for 2015 to members registered on 29 April 2016 9 August 2016 Half year results 2016 18 August 2016 Ex-dividend date interim dividend 22 September 2016 Payment of interim dividend for 2016 to members registered on 19 August 2016 | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 248 OTHER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION For further information on this service, or to buy and sell Think about getting independent financial and shares visit www.
com or call 0371 664 0445. professional advice before you hand over any money.
Lines are open 8am4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at This is not a recommendation to buy and sell shares and www.
uk scams, where you can nd out this service may not be suitable for all shareholders.
The more about investment scams.
price of shares can go down as well as up and you are not guaranteed to get back the amount you originally invested.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on Terms, conditions and risks apply.
Capita Asset Services is a trading name of Capita IRG If you have already paid money to share fraudsters Trustees Limited which is authorised and regulated by the you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
This service is only available to private shareholders resident in the European Economic General information Area, the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man.
Capital gains tax: for the purpose of calculating UK capital Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will gains tax, the market value on 31 March 1982 of each share vary by provider.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be was 7.996p, after adjusting for the 1986 capitalisation issue charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open and the 1996 and 1999 sub-divisions, but not reecting any between 9am5:30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding public rights taken up under the 2002 rights issue.
holidays in England and Wales.
Close company provisions: The company is not a close company within the terms of the Corporation Share fraud warning Tax Act 2010.
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics Registered ofce: One Coleman Street, London to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares EC2R 5AA.
Registered in England and Wales, that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy No.
01417162. shares at an inated price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares Shareholder offer line: for details of shareholder in this way you will probably lose your money.
offers on Legal & General products call 0800 107 6830.
How to avoid share fraud Keep in mind that rms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares.
Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person and rm contacting you and then end the call.
Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk to see if the person and rm contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised rm, copying its website or giving you false contact details.
Use the rms contact details listed on the Register if you want to call it back.
Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the rm does not have contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
Search the list of unauthorised rms to avoid at www.
Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised rm, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
