249 OTHER INFORMATION Glossary Ad valorem fees Dened contribution pension scheme DC scheme Ongoing management fees earned on assets under A type of pension plan where the pension benets management, overlay assets and advisory assets as at retirement are determined by agreed levels of dened below.
contributions paid into the fund by the member and employer.
They provide benets based upon the money Advisory assets held in each individuals plan specically on behalf of each member.
The amount in each plan at retirement These are assets on which Global Index Advisors will depend upon the investment returns achieved GIA provide advisory services.
Advisory assets are and on the member and employer contributions.
beneficially owned by GIAs clients and all investment decisions pertaining to these assets are also made by Derivatives the clients.
These are different from Assets under Management AUM dened below.
Derivatives are not a separate asset class but are contracts usually giving a commitment or right to buy or sell assets on Annual premium equivalent APE specified conditions, for example on a set date in the future and at a set price.
The value of a derivative contract can vary.
A standardised measure of the volume of new life Derivatives can generally be used with the aim of enhancing insurance business written.
It is calculated as the sum of the overall investment returns of a fund by taking on an annualised new recurring premiums and 10% of the new increased risk, or they can be used with the aim of reducing single premiums written in an annual reporting period.
the amount of risk to which a fund is exposed.
Annuity Direct investments A regular payment from an insurance company made Direct investments constitute an agreement with another for an agreed period of time usually up to the death of the party and represent an exposure to untraded and often recipient in return for either a cash lump sum or a series of less liquid asset classes.
They can include physical assets, premiums which the policyholder has paid to the insurance bilateral loans and private equity but exclude hedge funds.
company during their working lifetime.
Dividend cover Assets under administration AUA Dividend cover measures how many times over the net Assets administered by Legal & General which are cash generated in the year could have paid the full year beneficially owned by clients and are therefore not reported dividend.
For example, if the dividend cover is 3, this means on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Services provided in that the net cash generation was three times the amount respect of assets under administration are of an of dividend paid out.
administrative nature, including safekeeping, collecting investment income, settling purchase and sales Earnings per share EPS transactions and record keeping.
EPS is a common financial metric which can be used to Assets under management AUM measure the profitability and strength of a company over time.
It is the total shareholder profit after tax divided by The total amount of money investors have trusted to our the number of shares outstanding.
EPS uses a weighted fund managers to invest across our investment products average number of shares outstanding during the year.
i. e. these are funds which are managed by our fund managers on behalf of investors.
Economic capital surplus and coverage Credit rating Economic capital is the capital that an insurer holds internally as a result of its own assessment of risk.
A measure of the ability of an individual, organisation or It differs from regulatory capital, which is determined country to repay debt.
The highest rating is usually AAA, and by regulators.
It represents an estimate of the amount the lowest D. Ratings are usually issued by a credit rating of economic losses an insurer could withstand and still agency e. g. Moodys or Standard & Poors or credit bureau.
remain solvent with a target level of confidence over Dened benefit pension scheme DB scheme a specified time horizon.
Economic capital surplus represents group available economic capital less the group A type of pension plan in which an employer sponsor economic capital requirement, pre-accrual for proposed promises a specified monthly benefit on retirement that dividend.
Economic capital coverage is calculated as the is predetermined by a formula based on the employees group available economic capital divided by the group earnings history, tenure of service and age, rather than economic capital requirement.
depending directly on individual investment returns.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 250 OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY Employee engagement index Index tracker passive fund The Employee engagement index measures the extent Index tracker funds invest in most or all of the same shares, to which employees are committed to the goals of and in a similar proportion, as the index they are tracking, Legal & General and are motivated to contribute to the for example the FTSE 100 index.
Index tracker funds aim to overall success of the company, whilst at the same time produce a return in line with a particular market or sector, working with their manager to enhance their own sense for example, Europe or technology.
They are also of development and well being.
sometimes known as tracker funds.
European embedded value EEV Insurance groups directive IGD surplus and coverage The Embedded Value EV of a life insurance company The IGD surplus is a regulatory measure which calculates is the value to equity shareholders of the net assets surplus capital within the group in accordance with the and expected future profits of the company on existing EU Insurance Groups Directive and ended on 31 December business.
The European Embedded Value EEV is 2015 and was thus still in force at the balance sheet date.
a variation of EV which allows for a more formalised IGD surplus is dened as group regulatory capital less the method of choosing the parameters and performing group regulatory capital requirement, after accrual for the calculations to enable greater transparency and proposed dividends.
Surplus capital held within Societys accountability.
The Group is reporting EEV for the Long Term Fund cannot be included in the IGD denition of last time for year end 2015. capital employed.
IGD coverage is calculated as the group regulatory capital divided by the group regulatory capital European embedded value operating profit requirement.
EEV operating profit International financial reporting standards IFRS Legal & General provides supplementary financial statements prepared on the European Embedded Value These are accounting guidelines and rules that companies EEV basis for long-term insurance contracts.
Operating and organisations follow when completing financial profit on the EEV basis reports the change in embedded statements.
They are designed to enable comparable value in a period, but excludes uctuations from assumed reporting between companies, and they are the standards longer-term investment return.
that all publicly listed groups in the European Union EU are required to use.
European embedded value per share EEV per share IFRS profit before tax PBT EEV per share is used to measure value creation over time.
It is the groups EEV including LGIM, divided by the closing PBT measures profit attributable to shareholders number of shares in issue at the balance sheet date.
incorporating actual investment returns experienced during the year but before the payment of tax.
Full year dividend Key performance indicators KPIs Full year dividend is the total dividend per share declared for the year including interim dividend but excluding, These are measures by which the development, where appropriate, any special dividend.
performance or position of the business can be measured effectively.
The Group Board reviews the KPIs annually Generally accepted accounting principles GAAP and updates them where appropriate.
These are a widely accepted collection of guidelines LGA and principles, established by accounting standard setters and used by the accounting community to Legal & General America.
LGAS Gross written premiums GWP Legal & General Assurance Society.
GWP is an industry measure of the life insurance LGC premiums due and the general insurance premiums underwritten in the reporting period, before any deductions Legal & General Capital.
LGIM Legal & General Investment Management.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 251 OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY LGR returns to align with the liability measurement under US GAAP.
Variances between actual and smoothed Legal & General Retirement.
assumptions are reported below operating profit.
Exceptional income and expenses which arise outside Liability driven investment LDI the normal course of business in the period, such as A form of investing in which the main goal is to gain merger and acquisition, start-up and closure costs, sufficient assets to meet all liabilities, both current and are excluded from operating profit.
This form of investing is most prominent in final salary pension plans, whose liabilities can often reach Operational cash generation into billions of pounds for the largest of plans.
Operational cash generation is the expected release from in-force business for the UK non-profit LGAS and LGR Lifetime mortgages businesses, the shareholders share of bonuses on withAn equity release product aimed at people aged 60 years profits business, the post-tax operating profit on other UK and over.
It is a mortgage loan secured against the businesses, including an expected investment return on customers house.
Customers do not have to make any LGC invested assets, and dividends remitted from our monthly payments and continue to own and live in international businesses.
Overlay assets Longevity Overlay assets are derivative assets that are managed Risk associated with increasing life expectancy trends alongside the physical assets held by LGIM.
These among policyholders and pensioners.
instruments include interest rate swaps, ination swaps, equity futures and options.
These are typically used Mortality rate to hedge risks associated with pension scheme assets Rate of death, inuenced by age, gender and health, used during the derisking stage of the pension life cycle.
in pricing and calculating liabilities for future policyholders Pension risk transfer PRT of life and annuity products, which contain mortality risks.
PRT represents bulk annuities bought by entities that run Net cash generation final salary pension schemes to reduce their responsibilities Net cash generation is dened as operational cash by closing the schemes to new members and passing the generation plus new business surplus.
assets and obligations to insurance providers.
New business surplus strain Platform The net impact of writing new business on the regulatory Online services used by intermediaries and consumers position, including the cost benefit of acquiring new to view and administer their investment portfolios.
business and the setting up of regulatory reserves.
Platforms usually provide facilities for buying and selling investments including, in the UK products such Open architecture as Individual Savings Accounts ISAs, Self-Invested Personal Pensions SIPPs and life insurance and for Where a company offers investment products from viewing an individuals entire portfolio to assess asset a range of other companies in addition to its own products.
This gives customers a wider choice of funds to invest in and access to a larger pool of money management Present value of new business premiums PVNBP professionals.
Cofunds is an open architecture platform.
The industry measure used to determine the value Operating profit of new business.
It is calculated as 100% of single premiums plus the expected present value of new Operating profit measures the pre-tax result excluding regular premiums.
the impact of investment volatility, economic assumption changes and exceptional items.
Operating profit therefore Purchased interest in long term business PILTB reects longer-term economic assumptions and changes in insurance risks such as mortality and longevity for An estimate of the future profits that will emerge the groups insurance business and shareholder funds, over the remaining term of life and pensions policies except for LGA which excludes unrealised investment that have been acquired via a business combination.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 252 OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY Return on equity ROE Value in force VIF ROE measures the return earned by shareholders The value of in-force business is the present value of on shareholder capital retained within the business.
expected future shareholder profits less the present ROE is calculated as IFRS profit after tax divided by value cost of holding capital required to support the average IFRS shareholders funds.
Risk appetite With-profits funds The aggregate level and types of risk a company Individually identiable portfolios where policyholders is willing to assume in its exposures and business have a contractual right to receive additional benets activities in order to achieve its business objectives.
based on factors such as the performance of a pool of assets held within the fund, as a supplement to any Single premiums guaranteed benets.
An insurer may either have discretion as to the timing of the allocation of those benets to Single premiums arise on the sale of new contracts participating policyholders or may have discretion as where the terms of the policy do not anticipate more to the timing and the amount of the additional benets.
than one premium being paid over its lifetime, such as in individual and bulk annuity deals.
Yield Solvency II A measure of the income received from an investment compared to the price paid for the investment.
It is usually Taking effect from 1 January 2016, the Solvency II expressed as a percentage.
regulatory regime is a harmonised prudential framework for insurance rms in the EU.
This single market approach is based on economic principles that measure assets and liabilities to appropriately align insurers risk with the capital they hold to safeguard policyholder.
Changes to capital requirements will be developed through our internal model for setting the Solvency Capital Requirement SCR.
Solvency II surplus and coverage Solvency II surplus represents group available Solvency II capital less the group solvency capital requirement, pre-accrual for proposed dividend.
Solvency II coverage is calculated as the group available Solvency II capital divided by the group solvency capital requirement.
Total shareholder return TSR TSR is a measure used to compare the performance of different companies stocks and shares over time.
It combines the share price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return to the shareholder.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 A POSITIVE FUTURE FOR ALL Weve been investing our long-term pension assets in direct investments.
The cover of this report focuses on our urban regeneration scheme in Plymouth.
The picture shows a retired couple, Pam and David, who recently moved to a newly built at in Plymouths Quadrant Quay.
We know that the UK is suffering from a shortage of housing and were committed to providing suitable and affordable homes for all age groups, especially first time and last time buyers.
com 2015fastread Registered ofce: One Coleman Street, London EC2R 5AA T 020 3124 2000 F 020 3124 2500 Legal & General Group Plc is a holding company, subsidiary undertakings of which are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and or Prudential Regulation Authority, as appropriate.
com Designed and produced by Addison Group addison-group.
net Printed on Amadeus 50% Recycled Silk and Amadeus 100% Recycled Offset papers.
Both papers are independently certified according to the rules of the Forestry Stewardship Council FSC.
Both manufacturing mills hold the ISO14001 environmental certification and the EU Eco-label EMAS.
