Strategic report Operating responsibly HOW WE RUN A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Operating responsibly requires running our business in ways Building trust in our business that meet all relevant legal and regulatory requirements.
We can only achieve sustainable growth if we earn and retain Inaddition, we have a number of internal policies andprocedures related to doing business responsibly.
the trust of our customers and other stakeholders.
Trust is not a nice to have, it is a must have.
Theseinclude our Ethics, Speak Up and Anti-Bribery policies.
As recent signatories to the UN Global Compact, we operate in line with its ten principles and support the UNs wider development agenda, including the Guiding Principles and Sustainable Development Goals.
We welcome the Modern Slavery Act and will issue our first statement in 2017.
We assess and manage social, ethical and environmental riskinour lending activity and the Group is a signatory to theEquator Principles which provide a framework for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social risk in project finance transactions.
We recognise the need to address climate change, protect biodiversity, support local communities and ensure human rights are protected.
Our Code of Business Responsibility affirms that we do not finance any activities prohibited by international conventions Greater transparency supported by the UK government, such as the Oslo Convention on Cluster Munitions and the Ottawa Treaty on We are committed to conducting our business responsibly and dealing transparently and fairly with any queries or concerns Anti-Personnel Landmines.
Consequently, we will not enter into credit or investment relationships with businesses our stakeholders may have about our business or our strategy.
We know that in order to become the best bank for customers believed to be in breach of these conventions.
we must be clear, open and visible about these keyissues.
Read more about our approach to managing risk and the Equator principles online at www.
com RB A clear purpose and strong values We have set out our corporate purpose, to help Britain prosper Focusing on what matters most and our ambition to do so as the best bank for customers.
In To guide our corporate reporting, we conducted a 2012, we launched our three Group Values: putting customers comprehensive materiality survey to identify and prioritise first, keeping it simple, and making a difference together.
theissues that matter most to our stakeholders, including These values and our Codes of Responsibility are embedded colleagues and opinion formers.
This process was informed across the business, from recruitment through to performance 1 bya survey of more than 2,000 adults in the UK.
management and training and development.
The results of our The five issues that most concerned ourstakeholders in 2015: colleague engagement surveys suggest that colleagues are increasingly guided and inspired by our Values.
Building trust in our business Running our business even more responsibly of colleagues have completed Improving customer experience training on our Codes of Making our products and services clearer 97% Responsibility and culture Explaining our wider economic contribution Building a responsible culture To become the best bank for customers we must continue to put the customer at the heart of everything we do.
This year we created a new Group Customer First Committee, attended by senior leaders from across the business including the Doing business responsibly, ChiefExecutives Chief of Staff.
The Committee is driving the development of a new Culture Framework.
We will use this sustainably and ethically, is the Framework to create a culture dashboard, to enable us to way to rebuild trust with people, monitor our progress.
In building a culture in which colleagues are empowered, businesses and communities across inspired and incentivised to do the right thing for customers, Britain, whilst also strengthening we assess our progress, along with colleagues pride in our Group through our Best Bank for Customers and Building colleagues pride in our Group.
In 2015, 85 per cent of colleagues responded to the latter.
A new statement was included in Sara Weller 2015 I understand how my team is supporting the Groups Chairman, Responsible Business Committee purpose to Helping Britain Prosper where 81percent of colleagues agreed.
This regular dialogue with colleagues provides rich data and a clear picture of how theyre feeling.
Further information on engaging colleagues, which is 1 Total sample size was 2,030 adults, of which 1,950 have a bank account.
Fieldwork incorporated by reference into the strategic report, is on was undertaken by YouGov Plc between 8-9 October 2015.
The survey was page109 of the Directors Report.
The figures were weighted to be representative of all GB adults aged 18.
Read more about our Codes, Policies Read more information about building a responsible culture at www.
com RB and our full Materiality Report at www.
com RBDownloads 22 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Running our business Improving customer experience We want to be the best bank for customers, doing the right even more responsibly thing for them by providing products and services that they Stakeholders require reassurance that we run our business can afford, understand and trust to achieve the outcomes responsibly, complying with laws and regulations, managing theywant.
risk effectively, and targeting growth in a sustainable and ethical manner.
A clearly defined business model Improving customer experience and strategy Over the past two years we have made significant improvements, designed to enhance outcomes for customers.
We are a simple, low risk, UK focused retail and commercial They include improvements to our product governance bank.
A responsible approach is integral to our business processes, making our motor finance customer credit checks model and our approach to value creation.
You can read more rigorous, simplifying the terms and conditions aboutthis on page 18. information we publish and redesigning the way we support customers who have suffered recent bereavement.
We aim Strong risk management and governance to lead our industry in the way we treat these and other We need to manage risk effectively and make the right customers in vulnerable circumstances.
decisions for our customers, shareholders and the Group.
Wehave a Board approved Group Risk Management Framework in place which you can read about on page 29.
Measuring customer satisfaction Tackling bribery and corruption We measure customer satisfaction using the industry We have established policies and procedures to ensure standard Net Promoter Score.
theGroup complies with all applicable laws and regulations We also use internal customer wherever it operates.
Our Anti-Bribery Policy and principles dashboards, which provide apply to all Directors, colleagues, and anyone else acting on monthly information about our behalf.
The Policy prohibits the payment, offer, acceptance customers experience and or request of any benefit including cash which could be views relating to our products construed as a bribe.
All colleagues, including contractors, and services.
These data are complete annual anti-bribery training and are encouraged discussed at the Group toconfidentially report any instances of suspected bribery Executive Committee and via the Speak Up service or their line manager.
are required to ensure that their employees are provided with appropriate training and awareness on a regular basis.
Since2014, the Group has been a member of Transparency International UKs Business Integrity Forum, a network of Dealing with customer complaints majorinternational companies committed to anti-corruption We continue to take all complaints seriously.
Improvements to and high ethical standards in business practices.
our products and services and understanding the root causes ofcustomer dissatisfaction underpins our efforts to reduce Paying and collecting UK tax complaints.
Where things do go wrong, we aim to put them We continue to be one of the highest payers of UK tax: rated right as quickly as possible, operating a 24-hour, 7-days a week as second highest in the latest 100 Group PwC Total Tax service.
To help ensure customers are dealt with as efficiently Contribution Survey.
We do not interpret tax laws in ways aspossible, front line colleagues can use a phone-a-friend thatwe believe are contrary to their intention and we do not escalation service to talk to specialists about a complaint whilst promote tax avoidance to our customers.
We comply with with a customer.
In our drive to continuously improve of our theHMRC Code of Practice on Taxation for Banks and the complaints handling service, we encourage and support Confederation of British Industrys Statement of Tax Principles.
colleagues to study for an externally accredited complaint We are also a major tax collector, gathering 2.2 billion on handling qualification.
This type of commitment and investment behalf of HMRC in 2015. has helped us to resolve in excess of four out of five of our general complaints either on the day they are received or by of tax paid in 2015 theend of the following day.
2014: 1.7bn 1.8bn Read more about stakeholder engagement Read more about customer experience at www.
com RB 23 Strategic report Operating responsibly continued Responsible marketing and communications As a responsible business we must ensure that the way that we Making our products market our brands, products and services is fair, accurate, not and services clearer misleading and ultimately easy for consumers to understand.
The Group complies with voluntary and mandatory advertising We serve an increasingly diverse customer base of individuals and and marketing standards.
We are working to better understand businesses.
To deliver sustainable growth we need to serve them customer behaviour and have used behavioural economic all equally well.
techniques to assess their preferences and improve our marketing materials as a result.
This has made them more concise and clear.
For example, weve simplified a savings maturity letter by introducing summary boxes and bullet points to highlight key information.
This simple change has contributed to a reduction in complaints about the product maturity process by 80 per cent.
Protecting customers privacy and data Our customers, including 11.5 million who actively bank digitally, of which 6.6 million who use their mobile to bank with us, trust us with their money and personal details.
To protect these assets, we consistently invest in security technologies, processes and training for colleagues.
Since 2011 we have invested 157million to improve security and provide Responsible lending protection for our customers.
We also provide our customers We understand the need to lend responsibly, in line with with useful information about how they can improve their own ourown low-risk business model and customers ability to money and data security behaviour.
The support we offer all customers We closed down more than 2,353 fraudulent websites in 2015 and the credit worthiness processes we use, reflect our and we are a strategic partner of Get Safe Online, a joint responsible approach.
initiative between the government, the National Crime Agency, and public and private sector supporters from the technology, communication, retail and finance sectors.
Serving vulnerable We monitor unusual activity on customer accounts and use state-of-the-art technology to detect potential criminal customers activity.
If we spot anything suspicious we take immediate Ensuring our products and andappropriate action.
services are accessible and suitable to the individual needs credit and debit card transactions of all our customers is at the monitored for potential fraud heart of everything we do: 26m every month consistently offering the best experience for all of our customers, providing products and services when our Tackling money laundering customers need our support.
and terrorist financing This includes improving our We take steps to make sure our products are not used for criminal processes when customers are purposes, such as money laundering and terrorist financing, bereaved and reviewing our working closely with legislators and regulators to combat this.
We websites and mobile banking complete appropriate and proportionate customer due diligence services to ensure they are throughout the duration of the customer relationship, and we accessible to all our disabled monitor unusual activity on all customer accounts and use customers.
advanced technology to detect potential criminal activity.
If we spot anything suspicious we take immediate and appropriate action.
In 2015 we made further revisions to our Anti-Money Help for homebuyers Laundering and Counter Terrorist Policy and launched specialist Buying a property is the biggest financial commitment many training across the Group to help colleagues understand what is people ever make.
We want to help more people get onto required from them.
andmove up the housing ladder.
We made a public target to provide 1 in 4 of all new first-time buyers mortgage loans Reporting concerns completed in the UK in 2015, and we have fulfilled that Our whistleblowing policy, known as Speak Up, explains commitment.
Across all our customer brands, ourgross new howcolleagues can raise concerns confidentially without fear mortgage lending totalled 39 billion in 2015, and our support ofreprisal.
During 2015, 153 allegations received through for home-buyers represented over 60 per cent of thislending.
ourSpeak Up line were investigated.
Of the investigations We are a leading supporter of the UK governments concluded at year end, 63 per cent were upheld with Help to Buy scheme.
We have advanced 3.5 billion of new appropriate remedial action taken where necessary.
The lending to customers under the mortgage guarantee element majority of Speak Up allegations come from our Retail and of the scheme, since it was launched in the second half of 2013 Group Operations divisions, which given the scale of these up to the end of 2015. business areas remains proportionate.
We continue to educate and empower colleagues to do the right thing for ourcustomers of new mortgage lending by challenging wrong behaviours if they witnessthem.
to more than 79,000 first-time buyers in 2015 11bn Download more information about our Codes and Policies at www.
com RBDownloads 24 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Help for businesses Our year-on-year net growth in lending to SMEs increased by Explaining our wider 5per cent in 2015.
Our lending to SMEs has grown 25 per cent economic contribution net since 2011, while it declined 13 per cent across the industry as a whole during the same period.
We contribute to the UK economy through our products and services, and through our commitments in our Helping Britain As part of our Helping Britain Prosper Plan we have a target to Prosper Plan.
We also make a positive economic impact as a increase the amount of net lending to SMEs and Mid Market major employer and purchaser.
We met our 2015 Prosper Plan target to increase net lending to these segments by at least 2 billion.
We support our business customers through our extensive network of customer facing staff.
More than half a million business and commercial clients now bank digitally with us.
Wework with the Tinder Foundation and other partners such as the Government to improve digital skills for individuals, small businesses and charities.
Widening financial inclusion We want to do more to help customers who are financially excluded or at risk of becoming so.
Our financial inclusion Creating new jobs strategy, launched in 2014, focuses on four strategic themes: We employ more than 75,000 colleagues.
We offer them all providing accessible products and services that meet competitive rewards and benefits, including incentivisation customers needs: improving awareness and understanding schemes based on customer outcomes.
We are helping to ofthe impacts of financial exclusion across the bank: working create additional jobs and bring talented people into our in partnership with and signposting to other organisations business through our Apprenticeship Scheme.
This year we thatmight be better suited to meet customer needs: and created over 1,000 new apprenticeship roles, bringing the total continuing to invest in financial education.
to over 3,200 since we launched the scheme in October 2012.
Opening a basic bank account can be the first step towards We have committed, as part of our Helping Britain Prosper financial inclusion for many customers.
In 2015, we provided Plan, to create 8,000 new apprenticeships by2020.
over 300,000 new basic bank accounts and also helped 55,000 customers upgrade from basic to more mainstream products.
Supporting UK trade and manufacturing Digital technology offers an important opportunity to make Providing support to UK businesses so that they can export financial services more accessible.
Today, almost 6 million and attract international investment is essential to long term adults in the UK have never used the internet and over economic growth.
In 2015, Lloyds Bank Commercial Banking 50percent of charities and more than 1 million small and became the first UK bank to enter into a strategic partnership medium-sized businesses lack basic digital skills.
Increasing with UK Trade and Investment to support UK businesses to digital capability is one of the most important factors that will export and to attract inward investment into the UK.
drive financial inclusion over the coming years, so we aim to use We are committed to supporting the manufacturing sector our expertise and reach to promote wider understanding and in the UK.
In 2015, we announced a 5million investment over access, as shown in our Lloyds Bank Consumer Digital Index.
fiveyears to support over 500 skilled apprentices at the Lloyds Bank Advanced Manufacturing Training Centre in Coventry.
Financial support and education This will help address the skills gap in the sector and help The credit union sector provides an essential service to many improve productivity and innovation in the sector.
We believe that it can become an even more powerful choice for consumers to turn to, which is why of new funding support weve been working in partnership with the Association of provided to UK manufacturing British Credit Unions Limited and the Credit Union Foundation, 1.4bn companies in 2015 to provide a 4 million fund over four years which is invested in the core funding of credit unions to help them become more sustainable.
In 2015, 69credit unions applied for awards and Purchasing goods and services 21secured a large grant or seed funding.
We are working together with our suppliers and others in our We can help our current and future customers to avoid supply chain to ensure we source goods and services in ways financial difficulties by providing them with a better that are responsible, sustainable and mutually beneficial.
We have invested 10 million Theymust also provide best value for our customers and in our Money for Life programme for young people since it shareholders.
In 2015, we spent around 5.8 billion on a launched in 2009.
We are reviewing this programme in 2016 diverse range of goods and services, with over 4,000 different following the launch of the UK Financial Capability Strategy suppliers.
We continue to honour our commitment to pay our published by the Money Advice Service and our own suppliers on time and are signatories to the Prompt Payment experience of delivering community based financial education.
In our Helping Britain Prosper Plan, we set a 2015 target We are considering additional ways to support customers and to pay 96 per cent of our supplier invoices within 30days and colleagues with money management.
additional funding provided to support credit unions in 2015 1m Read more about our Helping Britain Prosper Plan Read more about our business model and wider value at www.
com ProsperPlan creation on page 18.
18 25 Strategic report Operating responsibly continued 2015 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE In addition to the issues highlighted as most material by GENDER ourstakeholders, we also report annually on other aspects Board members Male 10 10 ofresponsible business, which we regard as integral to ouroperations.
Female 3 3 1 Senior managers Male 5,561 5,644 Colleagues Female 2,405 2,204 We want to ensure that every colleague feels valued and 1 Colleagues Male 34,602 35,255 empowered to thrive in a truly inclusive business.
We maintain regular dialogue with colleagues to assess their views and Female 46,920 47,728 keep them informed about our performance and the issues we 2 2015 2014 face.
We have recognition agreements with two trade unions, Accord and Unite, which collectively negotiate and consult on ETHNICITY behalf of around 95 per cent of our colleagues.
You can read Percentages of colleagues from more about initiatives and progress on building the best team an ethnic minority 6.8% 6.6% on page 21.
Ethnic minority managers 6.4% 6.0% Learning and development Ethnic minority senior managers 3.7% 3.3% Investing in learning and development is critical in supporting colleagues to carry out their roles to the best of their ability.
In 2015 we launched our Line Manager Academy, a brand new 2,3 GENDER DIVERSITY % programme aimed at increasing the capability of our line Colleagues female manager population, reinforcing how they apply our values and Codes of Responsibility in their day-to-day roles.
Overall, 2015 58.4 Colleagues logged onto our online learning system, Discover 2014 58.4 Learning, more than 10 million times and more than 96 per 2013 0,000 cent of our colleagues undertook formal learning.
Managers female Colleague well-being 2015 45.5 We aim to make Lloyds Banking Group a great place to work 2014 45.4 for all colleagues, with their health and well-being as top 0,000 2013 priorities.
We provide comprehensive online tools to support Senior managers female common health topics, suchas fitness, smoking, diet and mental health.
We issue monthly colleague newsletters on 2015 31.0 relevant issues.
Working in partnership with external, market 2014 29.2 leading specialists, we provide colleagues with access to an Occupational Health Service, an Employee Assistance DISABILITY % Programme, and to private medical cover.
In 2015, we extended the company paid private medical provision Colleagues who disclose a disability toinclude all permanent colleagues.
2015 1.1 Agile working 2014 1.0 2013 0,000 In 2015 we launched our Agile Working programme initiative, evolving our working approach to meet the ever-changing SEXUAL ORIENTATION % needs of our colleagues and customers.
All colleagues can apply Colleagues who disclose they are lesbian, gay, bisexual or to work flexibly to support their preferred work-life balance, transgender whether theyre parents, carers, or have other priorities.
In addition, they can buy extra holiday time and purchase other 2015 1.2 family benefits through our Flexible Benefits scheme.
The Group 2014 1.0 was named a Top Ten Employer for Working Families in 2015.
2013 0,000 1 C olleague scope of reporting: UK payroll headcount includes established and Inclusion and diversity fixed term contract colleagues.
Excludes parental leavers, Non-Executive Directors, contractors, temp, agency and internationals.
We recognise that everyone is different.
We value the unique 2 2 014 figures restated due to a change in HR system, and also to include differences that each of our colleagues bring to work every day.
International colleagues within the gender information, to be on a comparable Together, they make Lloyds Banking Group stronger, and the basis with 2015 figures.
Were working hard to build an 3 D iversity scope of reporting: UK & International payroll headcount includes inclusive bank that reflects the diversity of modern Britain.
parental leavers and excludes contractors.
Gender information includes All line managers completed inclusion and diversity capability International colleagues.
All other diversity information is UK payroll only.
training in 2015 and an additional 200 colleagues were trained Seniors Managers: Grades F to deliver disability awareness sessions with customers.
Our Managers: Grade D-E 2015 Words Count campaign encouraged all colleagues to Data source: HR system HR Online.
Apart from gender data, all diversity information is based on colleagues voluntary self-declaration.
As a result this data challenge non-inclusive language and behaviours, and over is not 100 percent representative: our systems do not record diversity data for the 20,000 colleagues are members our four diversity networks, proportion of colleagues who have not declared this information.
which are open to everyone.
The Group retained its leading Indicator is subject to limited ISAE 3000 Revised assurance by Deloitte LLP for position as the top private sector company for LGBT people the 2015 Annual Responsible Business Reporting.
Deloitte LLPs 2015 assurance inthe Stonewall Top 100 and was named in The Times Top 50 statement and the 2015 Reporting Criteria are available online at www.
com RBdownloads Employers for Women.
In addition we retained our Gold Standard in the Business Disability Forum Benchmark in recognition of the work done through the Group Disability Programme.
More information on support for disabled colleagues, which is incorporated by reference into the strategic report, in the Directors report on page 109.
26 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Environment Communities Our ability to help Britain prosper is inextricably linked to We are an integral part of communities across Britain, and we wider environmental issues.
Man-made climate change and believe we can use our unique position to help them prosper.
global trends such as resource scarcity, extreme weather and This year we raised 5million including matched giving rising energy and commodity prices have an impact on our forour Charity of the Year, BBC Children in Need through stakeholders and our own operations.
In 2015, colleagues gave 320,000 paid volunteering hours to support community-based We are committed to managing our direct environmental organisations.
We are doing more to encourage impact and reducing our greenhouse gas emissions.
this through our Environmental Action Plan, which focuses on reducing risk and creating value through improved efficiency.
More detail is included in our Environmental Statement, available online.
The Foundations Greenhouse gas emissions We want to do more to help This year our overall carbon emissions, measured in CO 2 even more people through equivalent tonnes CO e, have decreased by 9.85 per cent 2 our four independent year-on-year and by 29.6 per cent against our 2009 baseline.
Our The majority of this reduction is attributable to the reduction England and Wales Foundation in consumption of gas and electricity, which make up the is the UKs largest corporate largest proportion of our emissions.
This reduction was mainly foundation.
due to energy management activity, for example continued optimisation of building management systems to ensure that Since 1985, we have given heating and ventilation plant and lighting run times are almost 600million to tackle matched to actual building operations and occupancy.
disadvantage in communities For more on emissions reporting and methodology, see across the UK.
theDirectors report, page 109. donated to our CO e emissions tonnes 2 Oct 2014 Oct 2013 charitable Foundations Sept 2015 Sept 2014 17m in2015 Total CO e 398,191 441,703 2 Total scope 1 57,761 60,019 Stakeholders Total scope 2 241,008 264,252 We identify and engage with many different groups and individuals to understand their needs and views, to ensure Total scope 3 99,422 117,432 ourapproach remains relevant.
Restated 2013 2014 emissions data to improve the accuracy of reporting, using actual data to replace estimations and our re-categorisation of the emissions from Investors and ratings agencies our owned vehicles.
Emissions in tonnes CO e in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard We held more than 1,000 meetings with investors in 2015.
We regularly engage SRI ESG investors as well as mainstream Criteria used to measure and report Scope 1, 2, 3 emissions is provided investors and investment analysts to provide them with in the Lloyds Banking Group criteria statement available online information on our performance, strategic plans and how at www.
com ResponsibleBusiness wedo business responsibly.
In 2015 we held a number of Indicator is subject to limited ISAE 3000 Revised assurance by Deloitte LLP for responsible business webinars and roadshows with investors the 2015 Annual Responsible Business Reporting.
Deloitte LLPs 2015 assurance and analysts.
We also briefed ratings agencies about our statement and the 2015 Reporting Criteria are available online at www.
com RBdownloads performance against our Conduct Risk Appetite Metrics.
reduction in energy Independent Stakeholder Advisory Panel use compared to our 2009 Our Independent Panel is in place to provide an external 32% target baseline viewpoint on elements of our Responsible Business strategy.
In2015, they discussed broad topics including our Helping Britain Prosper Plan and Financial Inclusion Strategy and fed Support for the low carbon economy back their recommendations to the Responsible Business Committee.
You can read more about the Panel online at We provide finance to green industries and support for SMEs www.
com RB seeking to become more carbon and resource efficient.
In 2015, our UK based team was responsible for financing renewable projects with a combined capacity of more than 2.35GW.
Globally, our investments in renewable energy are inexcess of 9GW in capacity and cover solar, offshore and onshore wind, waste to energy and biomass.
Following the success of the Groups first Environmental, Social and Governance ESG bond in 2014, and in response to increased investor demand, it launched another 250 million bond in 2015.
Lloyds Bank became the first UK bank to develop an ESG deposit scheme in response to client demand to invest in products that create positive impacts.
Read more on emissions reporting and Read more about our community programmes methodology in the Directors report at www.
