Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Financial Risk Management objectives and policies of the Group and the the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements exposure of the Group to capital risk, credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk are in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Group continues to meet Group and individual entity capital requirements and day-to-day liquidity needs through the Groups Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each cash resources and available credit facilities.
Committed term funding at 31 financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and Company December 2015 was 2,132.2 million which is committed until July 2016 or financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting beyond Period ended 2014: 2,240 million, described further in the Financial Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements The Directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and projections, taking into unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of the account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, which show that affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss for that year.
the Group has sufficient financial resources.
On the basis of this review, and after making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages 5456 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that of this Annual Report confirms that, to the best of their knowledge and belief: provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance make judgements that are reasonable with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Group provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific taken as a whole requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, the report of the Directors contained in the Annual Report includes a fair other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and review of the development and performance of the business and the position financial performance of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face state whether the Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union they consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2015, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business and strategy The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements By Order of the Board in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Lisa Condron the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Group Company Secretary Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006, other 4 March 2016 applicable laws and regulations, including the requirements of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Overview and Strategic Report sections of the Annual Report on pages 4453.
In particular, the current economic conditions continue to pose a number of risks and uncertainties for the Group and these are set out in Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 46.
91 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc Our opinion on the financial statements Overview of our audit approach In our opinion: Risks of material Risk that goodwill and purchased intangible assets London Stock Exchange Group plcs Group financial statements and Parent misstatement may be impaired company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs Risk of fraud in recognition of revenue in: as at 31December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended secondary capital markets trading the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance new or updated post-trade clearing arrangements with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union including fee-sharing arrangements the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared information services audit revenue accruals in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 In executing our audit response to the above risks of material misstatement, we also considered the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the risk of fraud in relation to management override requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group of controls particularly post close adjustments financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and significant areas of accounting estimate What we have audited Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial London Stock Exchange Group plcs financial statements comprise: information of 6 components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 18 components Group Parent company The components where we performed full or specific Consolidated balance sheet as Balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 audit procedures accounted for more than 90% at 31 December 2015 of Group pre-tax profit, revenue and total assets Consolidated income statement Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended for the year then ended Materiality Overall Group materiality is 18.3 million which Consolidated statement of Cash flow statement for the represents 5% of pre-tax profit from continuing comprehensive income for the year then ended operations calculated by including the impact of year then ended the amortisation of purchased intangible assets, Consolidated statement of changes Related notes 1 to 35 to the but excluding other non-recurring items in equity for the year then ended financial statements Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended Our assessment of risk of material misstatement Related notes 1 to 35 to the We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that financial statements had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, not express any opinion on these individual areas.
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
92 Governance Independent Auditors Report WHAT WE CONCLUDED TO THE RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK AUDIT COMMITTEE Risk that goodwill and purchased Audit procedures over the risk that goodwill may be impaired Audit procedures intangible assets may be impaired We performed a walkthrough of the impairment assessment process and assessed over the risk Balance of 3.5 billion, prior period the design effectiveness of key controls.
that goodwill comparative 4.3 billion may be impaired We examined the cash flow forecasts which support managements goodwill impairment Our application of review and tested compliance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
The Group holds significant intangible assets sensitivity analysis We assessed the reasonableness of those forecasts and the evidence supporting the on its balance sheet, including goodwill, customer over significant inputs underlying assumptions, by comparing to approved budgets, considering prior budget relationships, brands, software licenses, and to the impairment accuracy, and comparing expected growth rates to relevant market expectations.
assessment did not We tested the discount rates assigned to the cash generating units, as well as the lead us to conclude On an annual basis, management are required to long-term growth rates, with reference to our understanding of the business, comparisons that goodwill was perform an impairment assessment for goodwill, to other similar companies, broader market considerations as well as economic and materially impaired as and to assess for indicators of impairment in industry forecasts where appropriate.
We considered evidence available to support the at 31 December 2015. respect of purchased intangible assets.
Where discount rates used, and consistency with findings from other areas of the audit, and indicators of impairment of purchased intangible Audit procedures engaged EY valuation experts to support us in performing our analysis.
assets are identified, a full impairment assessment over the risk is performed.
These assessments involve significant During the course of our work, we tested and applied reasonable alternative assumptions that purchased management judgment in the application of in the application of the valuation methodologies, to challenge managements approach, intangible assets valuation models and assumptions.
and to test for impairment of the goodwill balance.
may be impaired Our procedures did As a consequence, there is a greater risk of We also performed sensitivity analysis on the key inputs including discount rates not identify any misstatement in these balances, either by fraud and long term growth rates to the impairment model, to understand the impact that additional factors or error, including through the potential override reasonably possible changes to key assumptions would have on the overall carrying that would lead to of controls by management.
value of the goodwill at the balance sheet date.
the need to perform Please refer to the Audit Committee Report page Audit procedures over the risk that other intangible assets may be impaired a full impairment 66 : Accounting policies page 105 : and Note 14 We performed a walkthrough of the impairment assessment process and assessed the assessment, or of the Consolidated Financial Statements pages design effectiveness of key controls.
a revision of the 122124. amortisation We tested managements assessment as to whether indicators of impairment exist, by periods applied.
The risk has neither increased or decreased reference to factors specific to each class of assets no such indicators were identified.
Examples included customer retention rates within specific business lines and the We concluded that current returns made on intellectual property.
the carrying value of purchased intangible We also assessed the appropriateness of the amortisation period, and compared assets is materially managements forecasts against historic data, to understand whether the periods correct as at remained appropriate.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 5 components, which covered 98% of the risk amount.
93 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc continued WHAT WE CONCLUDED TO THE RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK AUDIT COMMITTEE Risk of fraud in recognition of revenue Audit procedures over revenue in secondary capital markets trading Conclusion in secondary capital markets trading, We performed a walkthrough of the secondary capital markets trading process and We concluded that the fees or revenue shares for clearing assessed the design effectiveness of key controls.
revenue in secondary arrangements, and information capital markets trading, We increased our standard sample size for transactional testing by at least 3 times, services audit revenue accruals fees or revenue to respond to this risk of fraud.
We agreed a random selection of transactions back Balance of 1.24 billion, prior period shares for clearing to supporting audit evidence, such as receipt of cash and invoices: where appropriate, comparative 0.83 billion arrangements, and we also recalculated the fee charged.
information services Compensation tied to the performance For secondary capital market trades in London, we also used analytical tools to identify audit revenue accruals of the entity may create an incentive for outliers in high volumes of transactional data for focused follow-up testing.
This analysis for the year ended management to manipulate results.
included comparing the fee per transaction to volume notional traded and investigating 31 December 2015 any particularly high values which were outliers to the overall population.
We have identified 3 revenue streams as having heightened risk of misstatement.
They were We also performed cut-off testing to obtain evidence that revenue is recognised in selected for the following reasons: the correct period.
Secondary capital markets revenue involves Audit procedures over new revised including revenue sharing complex pricing structures based on product clearing arrangements types, customer activity and volumes.
This We performed a walkthrough of the fee and revenue shares clearing arrangement complexity leads to a heightened risk that process, and performed testing of the operating effectiveness of key controls.
revenue may not be recognised appropriately, We critically assessed the accounting treatment adopted by management, and either as a result of fraud or error performed testing to gain assurance that revenue recognised in the period in respect Contracts relating to new or revised clearing of all new updated clearing agreements had been accounted for in accordance with agreements, including revenue sharing the terms of the contractual terms and in compliance with IFRS.
Clearnet and third-party We performed sample testing of contracts along with a random selection of other participants, in some cases involve complex contracts across revenue streams.
calculations to determine the correct level of revenue to recognise within the Group Audit procedures over information services audit revenue accruals We performed a walkthrough of the information services audit revenue accruals process Information services audit accruals involve and assessed the design effectiveness of key controls.
judgment as to when and how much revenue should be accrued, and there were errors We selected a sample of audit accruals using a lower testing threshold as compared identified in the prior period audit in this area to normal revenue transaction testing, and obtained supporting evidence, including customer input consent, for accrued amounts.
Please refer to the Audit Committee Report page 66 : Accounting policies page 104 : and Note 4 We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area of the Consolidated Financial Statements pages in 10 components, which covered 99% of the risk amount.
The risk has neither increased or decreased in the current year.
In the prior period, our Auditors Report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to the accounting for the acquisition of Frank Russell Company.
This risk has been removed as the acquisition occurred in the prior period.
The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 18 components specific scope of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated each component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the of the Group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business size of these accounts or their risk profile.
environment and other factors such as recent Internal Audit findings when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
Scope Procedures performed by Number of components In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, Full Primary team 3 and to make sure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts Full Component teams 3 in the financial statements, we selected 24 components.
Of the 24 components Specific Primary team 17 selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 6 Specific Component teams 1 components full scope components which were selected based on their size Total 24 94 Governance Independent Auditors Report Details of the 4 components which were audited by component teams are set Materiality out below: The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of Component Location Scope Auditor the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
Clearnet Group Limited United Kingdom and France Full EY 1 LSEG US Holdco Inc. United States of America Full Non-EY We determined materiality for the Group to be 18.4 million 2014: 12 million, Millennium Information Sri Lanka Specific EY Technologies Private Limited which is 5% 2014: 5% of pre-tax profit from continuing operations calculated London Stock Exchange Italy Full EY by including the impact of the amortisation of purchased intangible assets, Group Holdings Italy S. p. A. but excluding other non-recurring items.
Our reference to continuing operations only meant that the results of the Russell Investment Management business 1 Some specific accounts within LSEG US Holdco Inc. were audited by the EY primary auditor.
which is held for sale at year end and that of the Proquote business which was sold during the year, were not included Components subject to a full scope audit account for over 90% of the Groups revenue, profit before tax and profit before tax before and after the reversal We consider the basis of our materiality to be one of the principal considerations of the transaction costs noted above 2014: over 90%.
for shareholders of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
It is linked to the key earnings measures discussed when the Group The remaining 32 components together represent 1% of the Groups pre-tax presents the financial results: in addition to non-recurring expenses, the Group also profit from continuing operations calculated by including the impact of the excludes amortisation and impairment of purchased intangibles and goodwill amortisation of purchased intangible assets, but excluding other non-recurring to present adjusted operating profit these amounts are not excluded from items.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including our materiality calculation analytical review and testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk the Group financial statements.
assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit Changes from the prior year procedures.
Our evaluation of materiality requires professional judgement and There are no changes in full scope components from the prior period.
necessarily takes into account qualitative as well as quantitative considerations Specific scope components have been re-assessed as the contribution implicit in the definition.
of such components to the Group consolidated accounts varies each year.
Involvement with component teams STARTING 336.1 million BASIS In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the Profit before taxes from continuing operations type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors operating under our instruction.
ADJUSTMENTS 30.7 million For the 3 full-scope and 1 specific scope components, where the work Non-recurring items, mostly related to the acquisition, was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level integration and restructuring of Frank Russell Company of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that MATERIALITY Total of 366.8 million has been designed to make sure that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits the principal locations of the Group.
During the current years audit cycle, visits Materiality of 18.3 million 5% of materaility basis were undertaken by the primary audit team to the component teams in: During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and made Italy LSEG Holdings Italy S. p. A. adjustments based on the final financial performance of the Group.
Sri Lanka Millennium Information Technologies Private Limited Performance materiality United States of America LSEG US Holdco, Inc The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
and any issues arising from their work, as well as meeting with local management.
In addition, we participated in planning and closing meetings and reviewed On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups selected audit working papers.
The primary team interacted regularly with the overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit and were was 50% 2014: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 9.2 million 2014: responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage which is the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence the lowest in the range due to misstatements which were identified in the prior for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
In the prior period, performance materiality was also set at 50% of planning materiality, due to it being our initial audit of the Group.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage our audit opinion.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
95 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc continued In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial was as follows: statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial London Stock Exchange Group plc 1.0m statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the London Stock Exchange plc 5.6m course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material LSEG US Holdco, Inc 4.7m misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy S. p. A.
Clearnet Group Ltd 3.1m Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor FTSE International Ltd 4.6m As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out All specific scope components 1.0m on page 91, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our Reporting threshold responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements An amount below which identified misstatements are considered to be in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing clearly trivial.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.5 million 2014: 0.5 million, which is less than the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance usual 5% of planning materiality at the request of the Audit Committee, as well as with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters qualitative grounds.
we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, considerations in forming our opinion.
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the In our opinion: financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information We have no exceptions in the Annual Report is: to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit 96 Governance Independent Auditors Report Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: We have no exceptions to report.
the Directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 91, and longer-term viability, set out on page 90 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add We have nothing or to draw attention to in relation to: material to add or to draw attention to.
the Directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements the Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions David Canning-Jones Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 4 March 2016 Notes: 1.
T he maintenance and integrity of the London Stock Exchange Group plc web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
