Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation and accounting policies The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with non-controlling interests The Companys and Groups consolidated financial statements are prepared in through the economic entity model.
Transactions with non-controlling interests accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS are recognised in equity.
Where the non-controlling interest has an option to Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European dispose of their holding to the Group, then these costs are recognised at the fair Union EU, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to value of the option at the balance sheet date.
A disposal group qualifies as a discontinued operation if it is a component of The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated an entity that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale and: financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently a r epresents a separate major line of business or geographical area applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
of operations The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as b i s part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major modified by the revaluation of assets and liabilities held at fair value and on the line of business or geographic area of operations basis of the Groups accounting policies.
c is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale The Group uses a columnar format for the presentation of its consolidated income Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing operations statement.
This enables the Group to aid the readers understanding of its results and are presented as a single amount as profit or loss after tax from discontinued by presenting profit for the year before amortisation of purchased intangible operations in the income statement.
Comparatives are also re-presented to assets and non-recurring items.
This is the profit measure used to calculate reclassify disposed businesses or held for sale businesses as discontinued operations.
adjusted earnings per share and is considered to be the most appropriate as it best reflects the Groups underlying, recurring cash earnings and is the primary Investments in subsidiaries shares, loans and other contributions are recognised measure of performance monitored by the Groups Executive Committee.
These are reviewed for impairment when events indicate the carrying before acquisition amortisation and non-recurring items is reconciled to profit amount may not be recoverable and are accounted for in the Companys financial before taxation on the face of the income statement.
statements at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Amounts in the income statement for the 9 month period ended 31 December Recent accounting developments 2014 have been re-presented to reflect the inclusion of 2 additional performance There were no standards, interpretations or amendments issued by the measures, being cost of sales and gross profit, on the face of the income statement.
International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC, effective as of This resulted in 69.4 million of costs from continuing operations being re-presented 1 January 2015 that have been newly adopted in these financial statements.
from operating expenses into cost of sales.
The change in presentation is to further assist users in understanding the financial performance of the Group and does The following standards and interpretations were issued by the IASB and IFRIC, not impact previously reported profit before tax or profit after tax for the period.
but have not been adopted either because they were not endorsed by the EU at 31 December 2015 or they are not yet mandatory and the Group has not chosen The comparative income statement for the 9 month period ended 31 December to early adopt.
The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future 2014 has also been re-presented to reflect the classification of the Russell standards, amendments and interpretations is still under review: Investment Management and Proquote businesses as discontinued operations.
Further details are provided in Note 10.
Effective date International accounting standards and interpretations Amendments to IFRS 11, Joint arrangements on accounting 1 January 2016 In the prior year, the Group changed its financial year end to 31 December.
As a for acquisitions of interest in joint operations consequence, the financial statements show results for the year to 31 December Amendment to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment and 1 January 2016 2015, with the comparatives for the 9 months to 31 December 2014.
IAS 38, Intangible assets, on Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 27, Separate financial statements 1 January 2016 Consolidation on equity method in separate financial statements The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Annual Improvements 20122014 1 January 2016 Company and its subsidiaries with all inter-company balances and transactions Amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, 1 January 2016 eliminated, together with the Groups attributable share of the results of associates.
IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities and IAS 28, The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in the income statement Associates and joint ventures on applying the consolidated up to, or from, the date that control passes.
Control is achieved when the Group is exception for investment entities exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee Proposed amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of financial 1 January 2016 and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
statements disclosure initiative IFRS 14, Regulatory deferral accounts 1 January 2016 As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys income IFRS 9 Financial instruments on classification and measurement 1 January 2018 statement has not been included in these financial statements.
The Companys and amendments regarding general hedge accounting income for the year is disclosed within the statement of changes in equity.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Upon completion of the Groups fair value exercise, comparatives are revised up to 12 months after the acquisition date, for the final fair value adjustments.
Further details are provided in Note 30.
Adjustments to fair values include those made to bring accounting policies into line with those of the Group.
103 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued Accounting policies gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, changes in actuarial Income Statement assumptions or differences between actual and expected returns on assets are Revenue recognised at each period end net of tax in the statement of comprehensive Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable income.
The net asset or liability recognised on the balance sheet comprises the and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal difference between the present value of pension obligations and the fair value course of business, net of discounts, value added tax and other sales related taxes.
For defined contribution schemes, the expense is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Revenue is recognised in the period when the service or supply is provided.
The sources of revenue are: Share based compensation The Group operates a number of equity settled share based compensation plans a Maintenance contracts, membership and other fees revenue is recognised for employees.
The charge to the income statement is determined by the fair on a straight-line basis over the period to which the fee relates value of the options granted or shares awarded at the date of grant and recognised b Admission fees revenue is recognised at the time of admission to trading over the relevant vesting period.
c Clearing fee income and rebates, together with other fee income and Foreign currencies net settlement fees, are recognised on a transaction by transaction basis The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the in accordance with the Groups fee scales Companys presentation and functional currency.
Foreign currency transactions d Royalties revenue is recognised at the date at which they are earned are converted into the functional currency using the rate ruling at the date of the or measurable with certainty transaction.
Foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end rates of monetary assets e IT products where there is no significant service obligation the revenue is and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income recognised upon delivery and acceptance of the software or hardware by the statement.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities held customer, in other circumstances revenue is recognised on provision of at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of their fair value gain or contracted services loss.
Exceptions to this are where the non-monetary items form part of the net f IT solutions where software is sold requiring significant modification, investment in a foreign operation or are designated as hedges of a net investment, integration or customisation, the consideration is allocated between the or as cash flow hedges.
Such exchange differences are initially recognised in equity.
different elements on a fair value basis.
Revenue is recognised using a percentage of completion method.
The stage of completion is determined by The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional reference to the costs incurred to date as a proportion of the total estimated currency different from the presentation currency are converted into the costs or the services performed to date as a percentage of total services to presentation currency as follows: be performed.
Provision is made for all foreseeable future losses in the period a assets and liabilities including goodwill, purchased intangible assets and in which they are identified fair value adjustments are converted at the closing balance sheet rate g Software and Licence fees revenue is recognised when the performance b income and expenses are translated and recorded in the income statement under the contract has occurred and the revenue has been earned at the average monthly rates prevailing h Other all other revenue is recognised in the month in which the service is c all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component provided.
The Borsa Italiana Group defers some of the income received from of equity cash trading and FTSE MIB futures trading and clearing.
This deferral results in revenues being recognised at the average price of transactions forecast On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the for the full year, as pricing levels reduce during the year when incremental net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowing and other currency volume targets are achieved instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange The main source of revenue is through fees.
differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Cost of sales Cost of sales comprises data and licence fees, data feed costs, expenses incurred Finance income and expense in respect of revenue share arrangements and costs incurred in the MillenniumIT Finance income and expense comprises interest earned on cash deposited with business that are directly attributable to the construction and delivery of financial counterparties and interest paid on borrowings which reflect the agreed customers goods or services, and any other costs linked and directly incurred market-based or contractual rate for each transaction undertaken during the to generate revenues and provide services to customers.
financial period, and calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Non-recurring items Recurring fees and charges levied on committed bank facilities and the payments Items of income and expense that are material by size and or nature and are and cash management transactions and services provided by the Groups banks non-recurring are classified as non-recurring items on the face of the income are charged to the income statement as accrued.
Credit facility arrangement fees statement within their relevant category.
The separate reporting of these items are capitalised and then amortised back to the income statement over the term together with amortisation of purchased intangible assets helps give an indication of the facility subject to protected utilisation.
Fees and charges are included within of the Groups underlying performance.
Pension costs Fair value gains and losses on financial instruments include the movement in the The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
market valuations of derivative instruments held as fair value hedges.
For the defined benefit schemes the service cost, representing benefits accruing to employees, is included as an operating expense.
The interest cost and expected Dividend income return on plan assets is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined Dividend income is recognised when the Groups right to receive the payment is benefit liability or asset at the start of each annual reporting period.
Actuarial established, which is generally when shareholders approve the dividend.
104 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Balance Sheet Internal product development expenditure is capitalised if the costs can be reliably Property, plant and equipment measured, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, future Property, plant and equipment are included in the financial statements at cost economic benefits are probable and the Group has sufficient resources to complete less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
the development and to use or sell the asset.
The assets are recorded at cost including labour, directly attributable costs and any third party expenses, and Freehold buildings, fixed plant and plant and equipment are stated at cost and amortised over their useful economic lives of 3 to 5 years.
are depreciated to residual value on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of the assets which are as follows: Intangible assets are assessed for any indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Where indicators of impairment for a particular intangible asset are a Freehold buildings 30 to 50 years identified, a full impairment assessment is performed, with any diminution in b Fixed plant 3 to 20 years value recognised in the income statement.
When performing any impairment assessment, in addition to considering matters particular to the relevant Group c Plant and equipment 3 to 15 years business area, management evaluates the overall value of the asset from the perspective of a market participant.
Accordingly, any reduction in value recorded Leasehold properties and improvements are included at cost and depreciated represents the Groups view of the market fair value of the intangible asset.
to residual value over the shorter of the period of the lease or the useful economic life of the asset.
Current and non-current classification Current assets include assets held primarily for trading purposes, cash and Leases cash equivalents, and assets expected to be realised in, or intended for trade Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are or consumption in, the course of the Groups operating cycle.
All other assets retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under are classified as non-current assets.
operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis.
Lease incentives are spread over the term of the lease.
Current liabilities include liabilities held primarily for trading purposes, liabilities expected to be settled in the course of the Groups operating cycle and those The Group leases certain plant and equipment where the Group has substantially liabilities due within 1 year from the reporting date.
All other liabilities are all the risks and rewards of ownership.
These are classified as finance leases.
Finance classified as non-current liabilities.
leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Current and deferred taxation The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted Each lease payment is apportioned between the finance charge and the liability or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
Plant and Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Full provision is made, using the liability method, for temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts Intangible assets in the financial statements.
Deferred taxation is determined using tax rates that Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of are substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling when the asset is realised or liability settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to interests, and any previous interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired the extent it is probable that they will be recoverable against future taxable profits.
If the fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, the Group re-assesses whether it has Financial assets and liabilities correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed Financial assets excluding clearing business and reviews the procedures used to measure the amounts to be recognised at The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value the acquisition date.
If the reassessment still results in an excess of the fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale and loans and receivables.
The classification of net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, then the of the Groups financial assets depends on the purpose for which the financial gain is recognised in profit or loss.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the assets and liabilities acquired.
These may include brand names, customer relationships, a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss licences and software intellectual property, all of which are recorded as intangible Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets assets and held at cost less accumulated amortisation.
These assets are amortised held for liquidity purposes, they are initially recognised at fair value and on a straight line basis over their useful economic lives which are as follows: any subsequent changes in fair value are recognised directly in the income statement.
These assets are financial instruments not designated as hedges.
a Customer and supplier relationships 2 to 25 years material assets are amortised over a life exceeding 15 years b Available-for-sale financial assets Investments other than term deposits and interests in joint ventures, b Brands 10 to 25 years material assets are amortised over a life of 25 years associates and subsidiaries are designated as available-for-sale and are c Software licenses and intellectual property 2 to 25 years the majority recorded on trade date at fair value plus transaction costs with changes in of material assets are amortised over a life not exceeding 5 years fair value recognised in equity.
Cumulative fair value gains or losses on an asset are recycled through the income statement when the asset is disposed The useful economic lives are based on managements best estimates such as or impaired.
Where the fair value is not reliably measurable, the investment attrition rates on customer relationships, product upgrade cycles for software and is held at cost less any provision for impairment.
Assets such as shares technology assets, market participant perspective for brands and pace of change in clearing and payment transmission operations and long-term equity of regulation for business.
investments that do not qualify as associates or joint ventures are usually classified as available-for-sale.
Third party software costs for the development and implementation of systems which enhance the services provided by the Group are capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives of 3 to 5 years.
105 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued c Loans and receivables Accounting treatments of CCP financial assets and liabilities include the following: Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or a Derivatives, trading assets and liabilities determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are These transactions are initially recorded at fair value, and are subsequently included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than re-measured on the basis of the market price of each derivative instrument 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current at the period end.
Since the asset and liability positions of the CCP clearer assets.
Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash are matched, the same amount is recorded for both the assets and liabilities and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
and no net fair value gains or losses are recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash-flows from b Receivables for and liabilities under repurchase transactions the assets has expired, or has been transferred, and the Group has transferred These represent repurchase transactions repos by clearing members substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
using the Groups clearing and guarantee service.
They represent the value of transactions already settled spot and not yet settled at term.
These Financial liabilities transactions are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently Financial liabilities are classified at initial recognition as either financial liabilities measured at amortised cost, by allocating the yield on the repo pro-rated at fair value through profit or loss or financial liabilities at amortised cost.
over the duration of the contract the coupon accrued in the period and the Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss include CCP financial difference between the spot and forward prices.
Since the asset and liability liabilities see below and other non-current liabilities.
Financial liabilities at positions for repos are matched, the same amount is recorded for both assets amortised cost include trade and other payables, borrowings and provisions.
and liabilities and no gain or loss is recorded in the income statement.
c Other receivables from and payables to clearing members and default funds Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities at amortised cost are These comprise accounts receivable and payable deriving from the activities measured using the effective interest rate method, with gains and losses of clearing members in derivatives, equities and bond transactions.
They recognised in finance income and expenses respectively.
Financial liabilities mainly represent amounts to be received or paid in relation to initial and are derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, variation margins, option premiums, securities as collateral and default fund cancelled or expires.
contributions and are initially recorded at fair value.
They are generally settled on the next day and, accordingly, are not discounted back to current value.
Financial assets and liabilities of the central counterparty CCP business Default funds absorb any losses incurred by the Group in the event of Assets and liabilities of the CCP clearing service relate to subsidiaries that perform clearing members default where margin collateral is insufficient to cover the CCP clearing business.
The activities include clearing of financial derivatives, the management and close out of the positions of the defaulting members.
equities and bond transactions on regulated markets.
The Group enters into a contractual arrangement in respect of each side of the transaction, bears the d Financial assets and liabilities at fair value risk associated with counterparties failing to honour their obligations and, in the These represent quoted equity and bond securities which have already event of a failure to deliver by any counterparty, is required itself to complete the withdrawn from the settlement system but have not yet delivered to the delivery.
Accordingly, the Group must record an asset and a liability on its balance intermediaries who have bought them and securities traded but not yet sheet in respect of each of the sale and purchase sides of each transaction.
However, settled as part of the CCP function.
These are initially recognised at fair value except in respect of failed transactions the Group as a CCP clearer does not bear and subsequently re-measured at fair value, based on the market price of any price risk and the value of the sale and purchase side of each transaction are each security.
The difference between the settlement price of each security the same: consequently, the principal CCP asset and liability amounts largely at trade date and the market price of that security at the period end is match each other.
The Group has adopted the settlement date as the reference recognised as a fair value gain or loss in the income statement.
date for recognising financial assets.
e Held to maturity These are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments Income recognised through the CCP clearing business includes net treasury and fixed maturities which the Group has the intention and ability to hold to income earned on margin and default funds, held as part of our Risk Management maturity.
After initial measurement held to maturity financial investments process, and is shown separately from the Group revenues.
Net treasury income are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate is the result of interest earned on cash assets lodged with the clearing house, less impairment.
The amortisation of any premium or discount is included less interest paid to the members on their initial margin and default fund in interest income.
Net treasury income has been shown separately on the face of the income statement to distinguish this income stream from revenues arising from f Cash and cash equivalents restricted the Groups other activities and provides the reader with a greater understanding These include amounts received from clearing members to cover initial of the operating activities of the Group.
Where negative interest rates apply, and variation margins and default fund contributions as collateral against the Group recognises interest paid on cash assets as a net treasury expense default or insolvency and are deposited with banks.
Such amounts are initially and interest received on clearing members margin as net treasury income.
recognised at fair value and are subsequently recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
106 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Cash and cash equivalents Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, short-term deposits and is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each investments in money market funds and other instruments and structures that balance sheet date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to insignificant on whether or not the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if risk of changes in value.
so the nature of the item being hedged.
Assets and liabilities held for sale The Group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging interest rate risk Assets and liabilities are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying on borrowings.
Any gain or loss is recognised in the income statement within amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is finance expenses.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Group designates as cash flow hedges both foreign currency derivatives and hedges of interest rate movements associated with highly probable forecast Borrowings transactions.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective Borrowings are initially recorded at the fair value of amounts received, net of direct portion of the hedge is recognised in equity.
issue costs and transaction costs including upfront facility fees.
Subsequently, these liabilities are carried at amortised cost, and interest is charged to the The Group hedges a proportion of its net investment in its Italian companies income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest by designating euro borrowings as a net investment hedge.
Similarly direct issue costs and transaction costs including upfront facility fees are charged to the income statement over the period of the In order to qualify for hedge accounting, a transaction must meet strict criteria borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
as regards documentation, effectiveness, probability of occurrence and reliability of measurement.
The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, the Preference shares relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its Risk Preference shares or components of preference shares are classified on initial Management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
recognition as a financial liability or equity based on the terms of the contract.
Effectiveness testing is conducted at each reporting date and at the commencement They are classified as a financial liability if the terms impose a contractual and conclusion of any hedge in order to verify that the hedge continues to satisfy obligation to deliver cash.
all the criteria for hedge accounting to be maintained.
The ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
Provisions A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, whether legal or Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable that a transfer of period when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when the forecast economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate transaction that is hedged takes place.
When a hedging instrument expires or can be made of the amount of the obligation.
is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is The amount recognised as a provision shall be the present value of the best recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the of the reporting period, i. e. the present value of the amount that the Group would cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred rationally pay to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date or to transfer to the income statement.
Put options written on non-controlling interests Property provisions are made in the financial statements at the lower of the Commitments to purchase minority interests and put options granted to minority cost of fulfilling lease commitments for property space surplus to business shareholders are recognised at fair value as a financial liability.
When the financial requirements after taking into account income from sub-letting, and any liability is recognised initially, the redemption amount is reclassified from equity.
compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil the lease commitments.
The changes in the measurement of the financial liability are recognised in the income statement.
Changes in the measurement of that financial liability do not All provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered material.
change the relative interests in the subsidiary that are held by the parent and the  shareholder and therefore are not equity transactions.
Equity and related items Share capital Trade receivables The Companys own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust are deducted Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their fair value, which from equity until they vest unconditionally for employees and are held at cost.
is usually the original invoiced amount less provision for impairment.
A provision Consideration paid in respect of these treasury shares is deducted from equity for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability Dividend distributions that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or will be subject to a financial reorganisation Dividend distributions to the Companys equity holders are recognised as a or default on, or be delinquent on, its payment obligations are considered indicators liability in the Group financial statements in the period in which the dividends that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference are approved by the Companys shareholders.
between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the portion deemed recoverable.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited in the income statement.
107 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Financial Risk Management The Group seeks to protect its financial performance and the value of its business from exposure to capital, credit, concentration, country, liquidity and market including foreign exchange, fair value and cash flow, interest rate and other price risks.
Financial Risk Management is not speculative.
It is performed both at a Group level, where the treasury function identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks from a Group perspective and also locally, where operating units manage their regulatory and operational risks.
This includes clearing operations at the Groups CCPs at LCH.
Clearnet Group and CC&G and investment management activities at the Frank Russell Company that adhere to local regulation and operate under locally approved risk and investment policies.
The Group Chief Risk Officers team provides assurance that the Groups Risk Management, governance and internal control processes are operating effectively.
The Financial Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Group Executive Committee and chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, meets monthly to oversee the consolidated financial risks of the Group.
In addition, the Treasury Committee, a sub-committee of the Financial Risk Committee which is also chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, meets regularly to monitor the management of and controls around foreign exchange, interest rates, credit and concentration risks and the investment of excess liquidity in addition to its oversight of the Groups funding arrangements.
Both committees provide the Groups senior management with assurance that the treasury and risk operations are performed in accordance with Group Board approved policies and procedures.
Regular updates, on a range of key criteria as well as new developments, are provided through the Enterprise Risk Management Framework to the Group Risk Committee.
See Risk Management oversight, pages 4445, for further detail on the Groups risk framework.
Capital risk Risk description Risk management approach The Group is profitable and strongly cash generative The Group focuses upon its overall cost of capital as it seeks, within the scope of its risk appetite, to provide and its capital base comprises equity and debt capital.
superior returns to its shareholders, fulfil its obligations to the relevant regulatory authorities and other stakeholders and ensure that it is not overly dependent upon short and medium term debt that might not be However, the Group recognises the risk that its entities available at renewal.
Maintaining the flexibility to invest for growth is a key capital management consideration.
may not maintain sufficient capital to meet their obligations or they may make investments that fail As at 31 December 2015, the book value of the Groups consolidated equity before non-controlling interests to generate a positive or value enhancing return.
was 2,743.9 million 31 December 2014: 2,526.5 million and the book value of its consolidated debt was 1,608.9 million 31 December 2014: 1,726.4 million.
The Group can manage its capital structure and react The Group comprises regulated and unregulated entities.
to changes in economic conditions by varying returns to shareholders, issuing new shares or increasing or It considers that: reducing borrowings.
The Board reviews dividend policy and funding capacity on a regular basis and the Group maintains comfortable levels of debt facility headroom.
increases in the capital requirements of its regulated companies: or Whilst the Company is unregulated, the regulated entities within the Group continuously monitor compliance negative yields on its investments of cash: or with the capital requirements set by their respective competent authorities and the terms of reference of the a scarcity of debt or equity driven by its own Financial Risk Committee includes oversight of the Groups Capital Management Policy.
The Capital Management performance or financial market conditions Policy seeks to ensure that compliance with local regulations is maintained and that there is a robust evaluation, undertaken by the Groups Investment Committee, of the impact of new investments, across the Group, on its either separately or in combination are the principal capital position.
Regulated entities within the Group have to date predominantly issued equity and hold cash to risks to managing its capital.
satisfy their local regulatory capital requirements.
At 31 December 2015, 952.8 million was held to meet regulatory and operational requirements across these entities.
This amount has remained relatively stable through the year and includes cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments classified as financial assets held at fair value and comprises the Frank Russell Companys cash and cash equivalents held to meet the regulatory requirements of its investment management business, the LCH.
Clearnet Groups regulated cash and cash equivalents, and the 200.0 million generally set aside by other Group operations.
719.1 million of this amount has been included in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations 31 December 2014: 1,011.3 million.
We believe that amounts held by Group companies are sufficient to comfortably support current regulatory frameworks.
The level of amounts set aside by the Group for these purposes remains subject to on-going review with regulators, particularly in Europe and the USA.
To maintain the financial strength to access new capital at reasonable cost and sustain an investment grade credit rating, the Group monitors its net leverage ratio which is operating net debt i. e. net debt after excluding cash and cash equivalents set aside for regulatory and operational purposes to adjusted EBITDA Group consolidated earnings before net finance charges, taxation, impairment, depreciation and amortisation and non-recurring items against a target range of 12 times.
The Group is also mindful of potential impacts on the key metrics employed by the credit rating agencies in considering increases to its borrowings.
As at 31 December 2015, net leverage had reduced back to 1.7 times 31 December 2014: 2.1 times, and is within the Groups target range.
The Group is comfortably in compliance with its bank facility ratio covenants net leverage and debt service and these measures do not inhibit the Groups operations or its financing plans.
108 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Credit and concentration risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups credit risk relates to its customers and Group counterparties being unable to meet their obligations Credit risk is controlled through policies developed at a Group level.
to the Group either in part or in full, including: Group companies make a judgement on the credit quality of their customers based upon the customers financial customer receivables position, the recurring nature of billing and collection arrangements and, historically, a low incidence of default.
repayment of invested cash and cash equivalents Furthermore, the Group is exposed to a large number of customers and so concentration risk on its receivables settlement of derivative financial instruments is deemed by management as low.
In their roles as central counterparty CCP clearers Non-CCP entities to financial market participants, the Groups CCPs Credit risk of cash and cash equivalents is managed by limiting exposure to counterparties with credit rating levels guarantee final settlement of transactions acting as below policy minimum thresholds, potentially overlaid by a default probability assessment.
Except where specific buyer towards each seller and as seller towards each approval is arranged to increase this limit for certain counterparties, a maximum of 50.0 million may be invested buyer.
They manage substantial credit risks as part for up to 12 months with counterparties rated long term AAA or equivalent, through to a maximum 25 million of their operations including unmatched risk positions overnight with counterparties rated short term A-2 or equivalent.
Derivative transactions and other treasury that might arise from the default of a party to a cleared receivable structures are undertaken or agreed with well capitalised counterparties and are authorised by policy, transaction.
For more information see Principal risks to limit the credit risk underlying these transactions.
CCPs Notwithstanding regulations in Europe and the US To address the market participant and latent market risk, the Groups CCPs have established financial safeguards that require CCPs to invest predominantly in secured against single or multiple defaults.
Clearing membership selection is based upon supervisory capital, technical instruments or structures such as government bonds and organisational criteria.
Each member must pay margins, computed and collected at least daily, to cover the and reverse repos, CC&G and the LCH.
Clearnet Group exposures and theoretical costs which the CCP might incur in order to close out open positions in the event of the CCPs continue to be able to maintain up to 5% of their members default.
Margins are calculated using established and internationally acknowledged risk models and are total deposits at commercial banks on an unsecured debited from participants accounts through central bank accounts and via commercial bank payment systems.
Through this potential for its CCPs to invest on an Minimum levels of cash collateral are required and non-cash collateral is re-valued daily.
unsecured basis as well as by certain other regulated and unregulated operations observing agreed investment 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 policy limits, the Group will continue to face the risk of direct loss from a deterioration or failure of 1 or bn bn more of its unsecured investment counterparties.
Clearing members margin liability 85.7 70.6 Cash 45.6 38.8 Concentration risk may arise through Group entities Collateral security having large individual or connected exposures to groups Non-cash 40.1 31.8 of counterparties whose likelihood of default is driven Maximum aggregate margin liability 99.6 80.1 by common underlying factors.
This is a particular focus for the year period of the investment approach at the Groups CCPs.
Clearing members also contribute to default funds managed by the CCPs to guarantee the integrity of the markets in the event of multiple defaults in extreme market circumstances.
Amounts are determined on the basis of the results of periodic stress testing examined by the risk committees of the respective CCPs.
Furthermore, each of the Groups CCPs reinforces its capital position to meet the most stringent relevant regulatory requirements applicable to it, including holding a minimum amount of dedicated own resources to further underpin the protective credit risk framework in the event of a significant market stress event or participant failure.
An analysis of the aggregate clearing member contributions to default funds across the CCPs is shown below: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Clearing member contributions to default funds bn bn Aggregate at year period end 9.4 10.3 Maximum during the year period 10.6 10.6 Investment counterparty risk for CCP margin and default funds is managed by investing the cash element in instruments or structures deemed secure by the relevant regulatory bodies including through direct investments in highly rated, regulatory qualifying sovereign bonds and supra-national debt, investments in tri-party and bi-lateral reverse repos receiving high quality government securities as collateral and, in certain jurisdictions, deposits with the central bank.
The small proportion of cash that is invested unsecured is placed for short durations with highly rated counterparties where strict limits are applied with respect to credit quality, concentration and tenor.
31 December 2015 31 December 2014 bn bn Total investment portfolio 54.3 43.5 Weighted average invested securely 99.0% 99.1% Overall maturity days 90 85 Maximum portfolio size 61.1 51.6 Associated liquidity risks are considered in the investment mix and discussed further below.
To address concentration risk, the Group maintains a diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid investments and uses a broad range of custodians, payment and settlement banks and agents.
The largest concentration of treasury exposures as at 31 December 2015 was 24.8% of the total investment portfolio to the French Government 31 December 2014: 11.4% to the US Government.
109 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued Country risk Risk description Risk management approach Distress can result from the risk that certain Specific risk frameworks manage country risk for both fixed income clearing and margin collateral and all clearing governments may be unable or find it difficult to service members are monitored regularly against a suite of sovereign stress scenarios.
Investment limits and counterparty their debts.
This could have adverse effects, particularly and clearing membership monitoring are sensitive to changes in ratings and other financial market indicators, on the Groups CCPs, potentially impacting cleared to ensure the Groups CCPs are able to measure, monitor and mitigate exposures to sovereign risk and respond products, margin collateral, investments, the clearing quickly to anticipated changes.
Risk Committees maintain an on-going watch over these risks and the associated membership and the financial industry as a whole.
policy frameworks to protect the Group against potentially severe volatility in the sovereign debt markets.
The Groups sovereign exposures of 1 billion or more at the end of either of the financial reporting periods shown below are: Group Aggregate Sovereign Treasury Exposures 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Country bn bn France 13.4 5.0 Italy 5.6 3.7 USA 4.0 5.8 UK 2.6 Spain 1.9 1.6 Belgium 1.5 1.5 Germany 2.2 Liquidity, settlement and custodial risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups operations are exposed to liquidity risk The combined Group businesses are profitable, generate strong free cash flow and operations are not significantly to the extent that they are unable to meet their daily impacted by seasonal variations.
The Group maintains sufficient liquid resources to meet its financial obligations payment obligations.
as they fall due and to invest in capital expenditure, make dividend payments, support acquisitions or repay borrowings.
With the exception of regulatory constraints impacting the Groups CCPs, the Frank Russell Company In addition, the Groups CCPs, the Frank Russell Company investment management businesses and certain other regulated entities, funds can generally be lent across the investment management businesses and certain other Group or remitted through dividend payments and this is an important component of the Group Treasury cash subsidiary companies are required to maintain a level management policy and approach.
of liquidity consistent with regulatory requirements to ensure the smooth operation of their respective markets Management monitors forecasts of the Groups cash flow and overlays sensitivities to these forecasts to reflect and to maintain operations in the event of a single or assumptions about more difficult market conditions.
multiple market stress event or member failure.
This includes the potential requirement to liquidate the Treasury policy requires that the Group maintains adequate credit facilities provided by a diversified lending position of a clearing member under a default scenario group to cover its expected funding requirements and ensure a minimum level of headroom for at least the including covering the associated losses and the next 24 months.
The financial strength of lenders to the Group is monitored regularly.
During the year ended settlement obligations of the defaulting member.
31 December 2015, new committed 5 year revolving credit facilities totalling 600 million were arranged by the Company to underpin the Groups financial flexibility and replace the 700 million facility arranged in 2013.
The The Group is exposed to the risk that a payment or new facility bolsters facility headroom over the medium term and represents the first phase of a review of current settlement bank could fail or that its systems encounter facilities in conjunction with a refinancing of the next scheduled debt maturity in July 2016.
At 31 December 2015 operational issues, creating liquidity pressures and 518.3 million of the Groups facilities were unutilised.
the risk of possible defaults on payment or receivable obligations.
The Groups CCPs maintain sufficient cash and cash equivalents and, in certain jurisdictions, have access to central bank refinancing or commercial bank liquidity support credit lines to meet the cash requirements of the clearing The Group uses third party custodians to hold securities and settlement cycle.
Revised regulations require CCPs to ensure that appropriate levels of back up liquidity are and is therefore exposed to the custodians insolvency, in place to underpin the dynamics of a largely secured cash investment requirement, ensuring that the maximum its negligence, a misuse of assets or poor administration.
potential outflow under extreme market conditions is covered see Credit and concentration risk section above.
The Groups CCPs monitor their liquidity needs daily under stressed and unstressed assumptions.
In addition, certain Group companies, including the CCPs, maintain operational support facilities from banks to manage intraday and overnight liquidity.
Where possible, the Group employs guaranteed delivery versus payment settlement techniques and manages CCP margin and default fund flows through central bank or long-established, bespoke commercial bank settlement mechanisms.
Monies due from clearing members remain the clearing members liability if the payment agent is unable to effect the appropriate transfer.
Custodians are subject to minimum eligibility requirements, ongoing credit assessment, robust contractual arrangements and are required to have appropriate back-up contingency arrangements in place.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table reflect the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
The borrowings line includes interest on debt that is not yet accrued for.
110 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements At 31 December 2015 Less than 1 year Between 1 and 2 years Between 2 and 5 years Over 5 years m m m m Borrowings 973.8 178.3 338.4 314.3 Trade and other payables 463.6 CCP liabilities 456,663.3 458,100.7 178.3 338.4 314.3 At 31 December 2014 Less than 1 year Between 1 and 2 years Between 2 and 5 years Over 5 years m m m m Borrowings 832.3 107.9 728.6 314.3 Trade and other payables 727.4 CCP liabilities 451,467.5 453,027.2 107.9 728.6 314.3 Market risk Foreign Exchange Risk description Risk management approach The Group operates primarily in the UK, Europe and The Group seeks to match the currency of its debt liabilities to the currency of its earnings and cash flows while North America, but also has growing and strategically endeavouring to balance the currency of its assets with its liabilities.
In order to mitigate the impact of unfavourable important businesses in Asia, and other alliances and currency exchange movements on earnings and net assets, non-sterling cash earnings are centralised and applied investments across the globe.
Its principal currencies to matching currency debt and interest payments, and where relevant, interest payments on sterling debt of operation are sterling, euro and US dollars.
re-denominated through the use of cross-currency swaps.
With the exception of MillenniumIT a Sri Lankan Rupee A proportion of the Groups debt is held in or swapped into euro and a proportion is held in US dollars.
As at reporting entity, which invoices a material proportion 31 December 2015, 132.2 million of drawn debt was euro denominated 31 December 2014: 140.2 million and of its revenues in US dollars, and LCH.
Clearnet Limited 368.5 million 31 December 2014: 389.5 million of cross-currency swaps, directly linked to sterling debt, were a euro reporting entity, which incurs a majority of its designated as a hedge of the net investment in the Italian Group.
As at 31 December 2015, 591.6 million of drawn costs in sterling, Group companies generally invoice debt was US dollar denominated 31 December 2014: 662.1 million and provided a hedge of the net investment in revenues, incur expenses and purchase assets in their the Frank Russell Company.
A profit of 12.5 million for the year ended 31 December 2015 period to 31 December respective local currencies.
As a result, foreign exchange 2014: profit of 13.0 million on foreign currency borrowings, inter company loan assets and liabilities and risk arises mainly from the translation of the Groups cross-currency swap hedges was recognised in equity.
The net investment hedges were fully effective.
foreign currency earnings, assets and liabilities into its reporting currency, sterling, and from occasional, Whilst transactional foreign exchange exposure is limited, the Group hedges material transactions in accordance high value intragroup transactions.
with Group Treasury policy which requires that cash flows of more than 1 million or equivalent per annum should be hedged with appropriate derivative instruments or by settling currency payables or receivables within a short Intragroup dividends may create short term timeframe.
Where possible, hedge accounting for derivatives is considered in order to mitigate material levels of transactional FX exposures but play their part in income statement volatility.
controlling the level of translational FX exposures the Group faces.
In addition to projecting and analysing its earnings and debt profile by currency, the Group reviews sensitivities to movements in exchange rates which are appropriate to market conditions.
The Group has considered movements The Group may be exposed from time to time to in the euro and the US dollar over the year ended 31 December 2015 and period ended 31 December 2014, and has strategic investments in currencies other than sterling.
concluded that a 10% movement in rates is a reasonable level to measure the risk to the Group.
The impact on post tax profit and equity for the year period ended 31 December is set out in the table below: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Post tax profit Equity Post tax profit Equity m m m m Euro Sterling weaken 3.5 17.7 4.3 14.2 Sterling strengthen 3.1 16.0 3.9 12.4 US dollar Sterling weaken 3.8 51.2 2.8 58.7 Sterling strengthen 3.4 46.4 2.6 53.3 This reflects foreign exchange gains or losses on translation of euro and US dollar denominated trade receivables, trade payables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss including euro and US dollar denominated cash and borrowings.
The impact on the Groups operating profit for the year before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items, of a 10 euro cent and 10 US dollar cent movement in the sterling-euro and sterling-US dollar rates respectively, can be seen below: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 m m Euro Sterling weaken 24.5 19.1 Sterling strengthen 21.2 15.2 US dollar Sterling weaken 5.5 12.6 Sterling strengthen 6.3 11.1 111 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued Market risk Cash Flow and Fair Value Interest Rate Risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups interest rate risk arises through the impact Group interest rate management policy focusses on protecting the Groups credit rating and maintaining of changes in market rates on cash flows associated compliance with bank covenant requirements.
To support this objective, a minimum coverage of interest with cash and cash equivalents, investments in financial expense by EBITDA of 7 times, and a maximum floating rate component of 50% of total debt are targeted.
assets and borrowings held at floating rates.
This approach reflects: The Groups CCPs face interest rate exposure through i a focus on the Groups cost of gross debt rather than its net debt given the material cash and cash equivalents the impact of changes in the reference rates used to held specifically for regulatory purposes: calculate member liabilities versus the yields achieved ii the short duration allowed for investments of cash and cash equivalents held for regulatory purposes which, through their investment activities.
by their nature, generate low investment yields: iii a view that already low market yields are unlikely to move materially lower: and iv the broad natural hedge of floating rate borrowings provided by the significant balances of cash and cash equivalents held effectively at floating rates of interest.
As at 31 December 2015, consolidated net interest expense cover was measured over the 12 month period at 11.7 times 31 December 2014: 9.4 times and the floating rate component of total debt was 42% 31 December 2014: 46%.
In the Groups CCPs, interest bearing assets are generally invested for a longer term than interest bearing liabilities, whose interest rate is reset daily.
This makes investment revenue vulnerable to volatility in overnight rates and shifts in spreads between overnight and term rates.
Interest rate exposures and the risk to CCP capital are managed within defined risk appetite parameters against which sensitivities are monitored daily.
In its review of the sensitivities to potential movements in interest rates, the Group has considered interest rate volatility over the last year and prospects for rates over the next 12 months and has concluded that a 1 percentage point upward movement with a limited prospect of material downward movement reflects a reasonable level of risk to current rates.
At 31 December 2015, at the Group level, if interest rates on sterling-denominated, eurodenominated and US dollar-denominated cash and borrowings had been 1 percentage point higher with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would actually have been 2.8 million higher 31 December 2014: 1.5 million higher mainly as a result of higher interest income on floating rate cash and cash equivalents partially offset by higher interest expense on floating rate borrowings.
At 31 December 2015, at the CCP level in aggregate, if interest rates on the common interest bearing member liability benchmarks of Eonia, Fed Funds and Sonia, for euro, US dollar and sterling liabilities respectively, had been 1 percentage point higher, with all other variables held constant, the daily impact on post-tax profit for the Group would have been 1.0 million lower 31 December 2014: 1.0 million lower.
This deficit would be recovered as investment yields increase as the portfolio matures and is re-invested.
Market risk Other Price Risk Risk description Risk management approach The Frank Russell Company investment management The Group announced on 8 October 2015 that it has agreed the sale of the investment management business business has material funds under management.
of the Frank Russell Company in its entirety, subject to customary regulatory and other necessary approvals.
The Group continues to progress well with the sale process.
Other price risk arises if, as a result of changes in market prices, the fair value or cash flows associated with Frank At 31 December 2015, 67% of the Frank Russell Company investment management businesss assets under Russell Companys managed financial instruments management was invested in equities and alternatives 31 December 2014: 67%.
If the value of these assets fluctuates and potentially decline in value.
had decreased by 10%, Frank Russell Companys total Net Investment Management Revenue for the year to 31 December 2015 would have seen a corresponding fall of approximately 24 million period ended 31 December 2014: 29 million.
Russell is well diversified in terms of geography, client type and products and strategies.
It maintains a balanced approach across these criteria as shown below: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Assets under management US based 47% 47% Geography Clients Non-US based 53% 53% Number of countries 35 35 Client type Institutional 65% 64% Client US based retail 23% 24% Non-US based retail 12% 12% Number of institutional clients and retail partners 1,700 1,800 Number of funds and separate accounts 400 400 Product Strategy Assets under management represented in top 20 products 30% 32% The Frank Russell Company does not guarantee the performance of its investment management business.
112 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 3.
Significant judgements and estimates Judgements and estimates are regularly evaluated based on historical experience, current circumstances and expectations of future events.
The significant judgements and estimates for the year ended 31 December 2015 are as follows: Goodwill tested for impairment annually.
The recoverable amounts of relevant cash generating units are based on value in use calculations using managements best estimate of future performance and estimates of the return required by investors to determine an appropriate discount rate.
Sensitivity analysis is provided in note 14: Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination valued on acquisition using appropriate methodologies and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives.
These valuations and lives are based on managements best estimates of future performance and periods over which value from the intangible assets are realised: and Defined benefit pension asset or liability determined based on the present value of future pension obligations using assumptions determined by the Group with advice from an independent qualified actuary.
Sensitivity analysis is provided in note 18.
Segmental Information The Group is organised into operating units based on its service lines and has 6 reportable segments.
The Executive Committee monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Sales between segments are carried out at arms length and are eliminated on consolidation.
The revenue from external parties is measured in the same way as in the income statement.
Segmental disclosures for the year ended 31 December 2015 are as follows: Post Trade Services Post Trade Capital CC&G and Services Information Technology Markets Monte Titoli LCH.
Clearnet Services Services Other Eliminations Group m m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 330.3 89.8 302.1 517.4 80.6 4.5 1,324.7 Inter-segmental revenue 0.9 12.9 13.8 Revenue 330.3 90.7 302.1 517.4 93.5 4.5 13.8 1,324.7 Net treasury income through CCP business 29.3 56.4 85.7 Other income 2.2 6.0 8.2 Total income 330.3 120.0 360.7 517.4 93.5 10.5 13.8 1,418.6 Cost of sales 15.1 6.7 28.3 45.4 28.3 1.7 125.5 Gross profit 315.2 113.3 332.4 472.0 65.2 8.8 13.8 1,293.1 Operating profit loss before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 170.9 51.8 90.9 270.6 6.4 2.1 3.8 584.7 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 149.6 Non-recurring items 30.7 Operating profit 404.4 Net finance expense 68.3 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 336.1 Other income statement items Depreciation and software amortisation 10.5 6.7 28.5 11.6 5.4 0.2 4.0 58.9 113 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued Revenue from external customers principally comprises fees for services rendered amounting to 1,239.6 million period ended 31 December 2014: 833.3 million and Technology Services amounting to 80.6 million period ended 31 December 2014: 47.3 million.
The Investment Management segment has been classified as a discontinued operation during the year as a result of the Groups decision to dispose of the Russell Investment Management business in its entirety.
The Group also classified Proquote Ltd as a discontinued operation during the year.
The results of Proquote are no longer presented in the Information Services segment.
Net treasury income through CCP business of 85.7 million period ended 31 December 2014: 69.1 million comprises gross interest income of 261.7 million period ended 31 December 2014: 154.8 million less gross interest expense of 176.0 million period ended 31 December 2014: 85.7 million.
The 2014 comparatives have been amended from those previously reported an increase of 27.8 million to both interest income and interest expense as a result of amounts of negative interest which were previously offset against interest income.
Net treasury income is unchanged.
Interest from investment in securities amount to 4.1 million period ended 31 December 2014: 21.4 million.
Presented within Revenue are net settlement expenses from the CCP business of 3.2 million period ended 31 December 2014: 2.4 million expense which comprise gross settlement income of 13.3 million period ended 31 December 2014: 14.5 million less gross settlement expense of 16.5 million period ended 31 December 2014: 16.9 million.
Comparative segmental disclosures for the period ended 31 December 2014 are as follows: 1, 2 Re-presented Post Trade Services Post Trade Capital CC&G and Services Information Technology Markets Monte Titoli LCH.
Clearnet Services Services Other Eliminations Group m m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 249.1 71.5 238.7 274.0 47.3 4.1 884.7 Inter-segmental revenue 0.9 7.1 8.0 Revenue 249.1 72.4 238.7 274.0 54.4 4.1 8.0 884.7 Net treasury income through CCP business 23.2 45.9 69.1 Other income 0.1 3.4 3.5 Total income 249.1 95.6 284.7 274.0 54.4 7.5 8.0 957.3 Cost of sales 10.9 3.1 10.7 26.1 15.6 3.0 69.4 Gross profit 238.2 92.5 274.0 247.9 38.8 4.5 8.0 887.9 Operating profit before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 125.2 47.1 81.4 142.7 4.6 4.3 0.2 405.5 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 90.3 Impairment of purchased intangible assets and goodwill 22.0 Non-recurring items 60.0 Operating profit 233.2 Net finance expense 51.1 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 182.1 Other income statement items Depreciation and software amortisation 9.5 4.1 19.9 8.3 2.0 0.2 1.4 42.6 1.
Comparatives have been re-presented to reflect the classification of the Russell Investment Management and Proquote businesses as discontinued operations.
Comparative amounts have been re-presented to reflect the presentation of cost of sales and gross profit in the financial statements.
Expenses by nature Expenses comprise the following: Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 1 2 Re-presented Notes m m Employee costs 6 405.5 242.3 Depreciation and non-acquisition software amortisation 58.9 42.6 Impairment and amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 7 180.3 172.3 IT costs 107.4 88.2 Other costs 136.6 109.3 Total operating expenses 888.7 654.7 1.
Foreign exchange gains or losses included in the income statement are immaterial.
Employee costs Employee costs comprise the following: Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 1 Re-presented Note m m Salaries and other short term benefits 322.4 191.6 Social security costs 42.5 33.2 Pension costs 18 18.1 12.1 Share-based compensation 22.5 5.4 Total 405.5 242.3 1.
The average number of employees in the Group from total operations, was: Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 UK 1,731 1,504 Italy 565 537 France 242 174 Sri Lanka 926 688 USA 1,296 1,312 Other 791 477 Total 5,551 4,692 Average is calculated from date of acquisition of a subsidiary company by the Group.
The Company has no employees in the year period ended 31 December 2014: nil.
115 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 1 Re-presented Notes m m Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 14 149.6 90.3 Transaction costs 1.0 54.6 Transaction credit 1.1 2.4 Restructuring costs 9.9 Restructuring credit 3.8 Integration costs 21.4 11.6 Impairment of purchased intangible assets and goodwill 14 22.0 Profit on disposal of assets held for sale 0.5 Total affecting profit 180.3 172.3 Charge for new transaction related revolving credit facility 1.8 Total affecting profit before tax 180.3 174.1 Tax effect on items affecting profit before tax Deferred tax on amortisation and impairment of purchased intangible assets 56.2 32.3 Current tax on amortisation and impairment of purchased intangible assets 1.8 1.4 Tax effect on other items affecting profit before tax 18.0 6.3 Total tax effect on items affecting profit before tax 76.0 40.0 Total charge to income statement 104.3 134.1 1.
Transaction costs comprise charges incurred for ongoing services related to potential or completed acquisitions.
The transaction credit in the current year relates to the release of a contingent consideration liability in respect of a past acquisition of a Group subsidiary.
The contractual terms under which the consideration was payable expired and the financial liability derecognised.
The transaction credit in the prior period relates to a reduction in obligations arising from the acquisition of LCH.
Restructuring and integration costs principally relate to the acquisition, restructuring and integration of LCH.
Clearnet and Frank Russell Company.
The restructuring credit in the prior period relates to contributions made by third parties to cover restructuring costs incurred in previous periods.
The 0.5 million profit on disposal of assets held for sale in the current year relates to the sale of a freehold property and related equipment held by a subsidiary.
These assets were classified as held for sale at 31 December 2014.
The carrying value of the assets at the date of disposal was 5.3 million.
Of the impairment recognised during the prior period, 21.8 million relates to licenses belonging to a cash generating unit within LCH.
Clearnets business in the USA, that was recognised on the acquisition of the LCH.
Following a review, it was determined that the cash flows required to maintain the current valuation are too uncertain.
Consequently, it was considered appropriate to impair the asset.
The Group remains committed to developing the business to provide clearing services in the USA and continues to investigate all opportunities as they arise.
The remaining 0.2 million in the prior period relates to the goodwill on EDX London Limited.
Following the transfer of the UK derivatives business to its parent company, the remaining goodwill allocated to the business was impaired.
116 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 8.
Net finance expense Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 1 Re-presented Notes m m Finance income Expected return on defined benefit pension scheme assets 18 0.6 Bank deposit and other interest income 0.9 1.7 Other finance income 1.4 0.5 2.9 2.2 Finance expense Interest payable on bank and other borrowings 66.0 49.1 Defined benefit pension scheme interest cost 18 1.2 0.5 Other finance expenses 4.0 1.9 Non-recurring credit facility arrangement fees 1.8 71.2 53.3 Net finance expense 68.3 51.1 1.
Net finance expense includes amounts where the Group earns negative interest on its cash deposits.
Taxation The standard UK corporation tax rate was 20.25% 21% for the period ended 31 December 2014.
Year ended Period ended Taxation charged to the income statement 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 1 Re-presented Note m m Current tax: UK corporation tax for the year period 49.8 42.9 Overseas tax for the year period 51.6 48.4 Adjustments in respect of previous years 4.2 9.6 97.2 81.7 Deferred tax: 17 Deferred tax for the year period 0.2 3.0 Adjustments in respect of previous years 2.0 0.4 Deferred tax liability on amortisation and impairment of purchased intangible assets 50.9 33.2 Taxation charge 48.1 51.1 1.
The adjustments in respect of previous years corporation tax are mainly in respect of tax returns submitted to relevant tax authorities.
Taxation on items not credited charged to income statement Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Current tax credit charge : Tax allowance on share options awards in excess of expense recognised 5.8 2.8 Gain on cash flow hedges 17.2 Deferred tax loss credit: Defined benefit pension scheme remeasurement 2.8 0.7 Tax allowance on share options awards in excess of expense recognised 0.1 1.5 Movement in value of available for sale financial assets 0.9 2.9 11.3 117 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued Factors affecting the tax charge for the year period The income statement tax charge for the year period differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25% period ended 31 December 2014: 21% as explained below: Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 1 Re-presented m m Profit before taxation from continuing operations 336.1 182.1 Profit before taxation from discontinued operations 97.6 8.9 433.7 191.0 Profit multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 87.8 40.1 Expenses not deductible income not taxable 3.5 9.4 Adjustment arising from change in tax rate 4.6 0.8 Overseas earnings taxed at higher rate 16.6 25.2 Adjustments in respect of previous years 2.2 10.0 Amortisation and impairment of purchased intangible assets 0.2 9.2 Adjustment arising from changes in tax rates on amortisation of intangible assets 17.0 Deferred tax previously not recognised 7.3 2.7 Income tax from continuing operations 48.1 51.1 Income tax attributable to discontinued operations 28.5 2.5 1.
The UK Finance Bill 2015 was enacted in November 2015 reducing the standard rate of corporation tax from 20% to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and 18% effective from 1 April 2020.
Accordingly the UK deferred tax balances at December 2015 have been stated at 20%, 19% or 18% dependent on when the timing differences are expected to reverse.
The deferred tax balances in other countries are recognised at the substantially enacted rates at the balance sheet date.
Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities held for sale During the year, the Group announced the completion of the comprehensive review focused principally on assessing the strategic fit of the Russell Investment Management business with the Groups long term strategy.
After careful consideration, the conclusion of the comprehensive review was to explore a sale of this business in its entirety.
On 8 October 2015 the Group announced it had agreed the sale of the Russell Investment Management business to TA Associates for gross proceeds of US$1,150 million 752 million cash.
The disposal of the Russell Investment Management business is expected to complete in the first half of 2016, subject to finalising agreements with the purchaser and any regulatory reviews.
At 31 December 2015, the Russell Investment Management business is classified as a disposal group held for sale and as a discontinued operation.
The business of Russell Investment Management represented the entire Investment Management segment in the Groups annual consolidated financial statements for the 9 month period ended 31 December 2014.
With the Russell Investment Management business being classified as a disposal group held for sale and discontinued operations, the Investment Management segment is no longer presented within the income statement analysis in the Segmental Information note Note 4.
During the year, the Group classified Proquote Ltd as a discontinued operation and completed its disposal for cash consideration of 22.0 million.
The carrying value of net assets on disposal amounted to 1.9 million and after transaction costs of 0.2 million, a non-recurring profit on disposal of 19.9 million was recognised in the income statement from discontinued operations.
118 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements The results of discontinued operations are presented below: Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Notes m m Revenue 960.7 86.7 Other income 2.2 Total income 962.9 86.7 Cost of sales 494.9 32.1 Share of profit after tax of associate 0.5 0.1 Expenses Expenses before amortisation of purchase intangible assets and non-recurring items 343.6 42.6 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 14 7.1 2.3 Non-recurring items 22.3 0.9 Operating profit 95.5 8.9 Net finance income 2.1 Profit before tax from discontinued operations 97.6 8.9 Taxation 9 28.5 2.5 Profit after tax from discontinued operations 69.1 6.4 Attributable to: Equity holders 68.7 6.4 Non-controlling interests 0.4 69.1 6.4 Discontinued revenue for the year ended December 2015, relate to Russell Investment Management of 953.1 million period ended December 2014: 79.7 million and Proquote of 7.6 million period ended December 2014: 7.0 million.
During the year, the Group recognised 28.4 million of costs in relation to the planned disposal of the Russell Investment Management business.
The assets and liabilities of Russell Investment Management business as at 31 December 2015, that have been classified as held for sale in the balance sheet, are as follows: 31 December Assets 2015 m Property, plant and equipment 32.0 Intangible assets 691.3 Investments in associates 5.3 Trade and other receivables 204.5 Cash and cash equivalents 252.5 Deferred tax assets 42.3 Other assets 45.7 Assets held for sale 1,273.6 Liabilities Trade and other payables 289.8 Current tax 5.2 Deferred tax liabilities 201.4 Provision 1.1 Other liabilities 41.5 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 539.0 Net assets directly associated with disposal group 734.6 Amounts included in accumulated Other Comprehensive Income: Foreign exchange translation reserves 17.1 Reserve of disposal group classified as held for sale 17.1 The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are held at the lower of cost or net realisable value less costs to sell.
119 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued The net cash flows incurred by discontinued operations during the year period are as follows: Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Cash inflow outflow from operating activities 51.5 7.7 Cash inflow outflow from investing activities 2.9 1.8 Cash outflow inflow from financing activities 5.8 0.5 Net cash inflow outflow 48.6 9.0 11.
Earnings per share Earnings per share is presented on 4 bases: basic earnings per share: diluted earnings per share: adjusted basic earnings per share: and adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Basic earnings per share is in respect of all activities and diluted earnings per share takes into account the dilution effects which would arise on conversion or vesting of share options and share awards under the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP.
Adjusted basic earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share exclude amortisation of purchased intangible assets, non-recurring items and unrealised gains and losses to enable a better comparison of the underlying earnings of the business with prior periods.
Year ended 31 December 2015 Period ended 31 December 2014 1 Re-presented Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total Basic earnings per share 74.8p 19.8p 94.6p 35.9p 2.0p 37.9p Diluted earnings per share 73.7p 19.5p 93.2p 35.5p 1.9p 37.4p Adjusted basic earnings per share 103.4p 26.0p 129.4p 72.9p 2.7p 75.6p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 101.9p 25.7p 127.6p 72.0p 2.7p 74.7p 1.
Profit and adjusted profit for the financial year period attributable to equity holders of the parent: Year ended 31 December 2015 Period ended 31 December 2014 1 Re-presented Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total m m m m m m Profit for the financial year period attributable to the Companys equity holders 259.6 68.7 328.3 116.6 6.4 123.0 Adjustments: Amortisation of purchased intangibles and non recurring items: Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 149.6 7.1 156.7 90.3 2.3 92.6 Transaction costs 1.0 1.0 54.6 54.6 Transaction credit 1.1 1.1 2.4 2.4 Restructuring costs 9.9 42.2 52.1 0.9 0.9 Restructuring credit 3.8 3.8 Integration costs 21.4 21.4 11.6 11.6 Impairment of purchased intangible assets and goodwill 22.0 22.0 Charge for new revolving credit facility 1.8 1.8 Profit on disposal of assets and liabilities held for sale 0.5 19.9 20.4 Other adjusting items: Unrealised net investment loss included in other income 0.1 0.1 Tax effect of amortisation and impairment of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 76.0 7.7 83.7 40.0 0.8 40.8 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets, non-recurring and adjusting items, and taxation attributable to non-controlling interests 5.2 5.2 13.8 13.8 Adjusted profit for the financial year period attributable to the Companys equity holders 358.7 90.4 449.1 236.8 8.8 245.6 Weighted average number of shares million 347.0 324.7 Effect of dilutive share options and awards million 5.1 4.2 Diluted weighted average number of shares million 352.1 328.9 1.
The weighted average number of shares excludes those held in the Employee Benefit Trust.
120 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 12.
Dividends Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Final dividend for 31 December 2014 paid 2 June 2015: 12.8p per Ordinary share 31 March 2014: 20.7p 44.4 56.2 Interim dividend for 31 December 2014 paid 5 January 2015: 9.7p per Ordinary share 33.6 Interim dividend for 31 December 2015 paid 22 September 2015: 10.8p per Ordinary share 37.5 115.5 56.2 The Board has proposed a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 of 25.2p per share, which is estimated to amount to 87.7 million, to be paid in June 2016.
This is not reflected in these financial statements.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Buildings Fixed plant, other plant and Freehold Leasehold equipment Total m m m m Cost: 1 April 2014 55.6 47.2 125.4 228.2 Additions 0.5 0.1 17.6 18.2 Foreign exchange 0.1 0.3 1.3 1.5 Impairment 0.1 0.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries 14.5 15.1 29.6 Reclassification to assets held for sale and other non-current assets 6.2 2.9 9.1 Disposals 0.1 1.4 2.1 3.6 31 December 2014 49.9 60.0 151.8 261.7 Additions 1.0 1.5 28.7 31.2 Foreign exchange 0.2 0.2 2.4 2.4 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Reclassification to assets held for sale 0.3 15.4 17.8 33.5 Disposals 0.2 2.7 12.0 14.9 Disposal of business 1.7 1.7 31 December 2015 50.2 43.6 146.7 240.5 Accumulated depreciation: 1 April 2014 28.4 34.0 72.5 134.9 Charge for the period 0.4 1.9 14.6 16.9 Foreign exchange 0.1 0.2 0.9 1.2 Reclassification to assets held for sale 0.9 0.9 Disposals 0.1 1.4 2.1 3.6 31 December 2014 27.7 34.3 84.1 146.1 Charge for the year 0.2 3.1 17.5 20.8 Foreign exchange 0.2 2.7 2.9 Reclassification to assets held for sale 0.9 0.6 1.5 Disposals 2.7 11.7 14.4 Disposal of business 1.5 1.5 31 December 2015 27.9 33.6 85.1 146.6 Net book values: 31 December 2015 22.3 10.0 61.6 93.9 31 December 2014 22.2 25.7 67.7 115.6 The carrying value of equipment held under finance leases at 31 December 2015 was 7.3 million 31 December 2014: 11.3 million.
121 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
The remaining amortisation periods of the Groups purchased intangible assets range between: 1 and 17 years for the Italian Group: 2 and 22 years for the LCH.
Clearnet Group and the FTSE Group: and 2 and 24 years for the Frank Russell Group.
The goodwill arising on consolidation represents the growth potential and assembled workforces of the Italian Group, LCH.
Clearnet Group, FTSE Group, MillenniumIT, the Frank Russell Group, Turquoise and Exactpro.
The Company has no intangible assets.
During the year, additions relating to internally generated software amounted to 96.5 million 31 December 2014: 48.5 million.
The carrying value of licenses held under finance leases at 31 December 2015 was 0.8 million 31 December 2014: 1.4 million.
In the prior period, the acquisition of the Frank Russell Group and Bonds.
com Group resulted in the recognition of 484.7 million in goodwill.
The exercise of attributing fair value adjustments to the assets and liabilities acquired with both the Frank Russell Group and Bonds.
com businesses was completed during the year ended 31 December 2015.
As a result, goodwill arising on acquisition of the Frank Russell Group and Bonds.
com Group decreased by 9.1 million and 2.6 million, respectively, and purchased intangible assets in relation to the Bonds.
com acquisition increased by 4.4 million.
122 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to 11 cash generating units CGUs, including the Russell Investment Management CGU.
The recoverable amounts of these CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations, using discounted cash flow projections prepared by management covering the 5 year period ending 31 December 2020.
Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using the estimated long term growth rates and applying the pre-tax discount rates referred to below.
The amount of the net book value of goodwill allocated to each CGU is set out below.
Net book value of goodwill Pre-tax Reclassified discount rate 31 December Acquisitions to assets held Foreign 31 December used in value 2014 revised of subsidiaries for sale exchange 2015 in use m m m m m calculations Italian Group: Capital Markets 226.8 12.2 214.6 11.0% Information Services 157.0 8.5 148.5 11.3% Technology Services 29.5 1.6 27.9 11.2% Post Trade Services 342.2 18.4 323.8 11.2% MillenniumIT 1.4 1.4 19.1% Turquoise 7.6 7.6 10.3% FTSE Group 187.6 187.6 7.5% LCH.
Clearnet Group 110.6 6.0 104.6 9.2% Frank Russell Group Information Services 334.9 1.0 19.3 355.2 8.7% Investment Management 134.0 142.4 8.4 N A Exactpro 2.9 2.9 N A 1,531.6 3.9 142.4 19.0 1,374.1 Management has based its value in use calculations for each CGU on key assumptions about short and medium term revenue and cost growth, long term economic growth rates used to determine terminal values and pre-tax discount rates.
The values assigned to short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions are based on the 2016 budget and the Groups approved business plan.
The assumptions are derived from an assessment of current trends, anticipated market and regulatory developments, discussions with customers and suppliers, and managements experience.
These factors are considered in conjunction with the Groups long-term strategic objectives to determine appropriate short and medium growth assumptions.
Long term growth rates assumed to be 1.8% for each of the Italian CGUs, 12.7% for MillenniumIT and 3.0% for the remaining Group represent managements internal forecasts based on external estimates of GDP and inflation for the 16 year period 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2020, and do not exceed the long term average growth rates for the countries in which the CGUs operate.
Pre-tax discount rates are based on a number of factors including the risk-free rates in Italy, France, Sri Lanka, USA and the UK as appropriate, the Groups estimated market risk premium and a premium to reflect the inherent risks of each of the CGUs.
Based on the results of the impairment tests performed, management believes there is no impairment of the carrying value of the goodwill in any CGU.
123 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued Value in use calculations for each CGU are sensitive to changes in short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions, long term growth rates and pre-tax discount rates.
The impact on value in use of reasonable changes in these assumptions is shown below: Impact on value in use of: Excess of 0.5% value in use reduction in 0.5% increase over carrying 5% reduction 5% increase long-term in pre-tax value in revenues in costs growth rate discount rate Cash generating unit m m m m m Italian group: Capital Markets 467.0 86.1 43.0 45.2 58.8 Information Services 53.0 20.1 8.4 12.4 16.2 Technology Services 60.2 12.7 7.7 4.9 6.3 Post Trade Services 328.8 65.6 29.1 36.4 47.4 Management believes goodwill allocated to the Frank Russell Group, LCH.
Clearnet Group, FTSE Group, MillenniumIT, Turquoise and Exactpro CGUs is unlikely to be materially impaired under reasonable changes to key assumptions.
The excess of value in use over carrying value is determined by reference to the net book value as at 31 December 2015.
Revenue and cost sensitivities assume a 5% change in revenues or costs for each of the 5 years in the value in use calculations.
Investment in associates The following table illustrates the summarised financial information of the Groups investment in associates.
Note m 1 April 2014 0.3 Acquisition of associates 11.9 Share of profit 0.1 Share of capital decrease and dividend distribution 0.2 31 December 2014 12.1 Share of profit 0.5 Liquidation of associate 5.8 Reclassification to assets held for sale 10 5.3 Foreign exchange 1.2 31 December 2015 0.3 During the year, Ping AN Russell Investment Management Shanghai Co Limited, the Groups principal associate was liquidated and the invested capital returned to the Group.
Investment in subsidiary undertakings Shares Other Total Company m m m 1 April 2014 3,310.0 548.9 3,858.9 Capital contribution to LSEGH US Holdco Inc. 441.1 441.1 Capital contribution to LSEGH Luxembourg Ltd 581.8 581.8 Other movements during the period 7.3 7.3 31 December 2014 3,891.8 997.3 4,889.1 Movements during the year 7.7 7.7 31 December 2015 3,891.8 1,005.0 4,896.8 124 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Country of Country of principal % equity and Principal subsidiaries: Principal activity incorporation operations votes held Held directly by the Company: London Stock Exchange plc Recognised investment exchange UK UK 100 Held indirectly by the Company: BIt Market Services S. p. A.
Retail information services and market technology Italy Italy 99.99 Borsa Italiana S. p. A. Recognised investment exchange Italy Italy 99.99 Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CCP clearing services Italy Italy 99.99 Exactpro LLC Quality assurance provider Russian Russian 100 Federation Federation FTSE International Ltd Market indices provider UK UK 100 LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited CCP clearing services UK UK 57.80 Monte Titoli S. p. A. Pre-settlement, settlement Italy Italy 98.86 and centralised custody Millennium Information Technologies Software Ltd IT solutions provider Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 100 MTS S. p. A.
Wholesale fixed income bonds Italy Italy 60.36 Turquoise Global Holdings Ltd Multi-lateral trading facility UK UK 51.36 Frank Russell Company Global asset manager and index business USA USA 100 During the year, the Group acquired Exactpro Systems Limited and XTF Inc. for a consideration of 4.3 million and 1.0 million, respectively.
In the prior period, the Group entered into a transaction that resulted in the Group acquiring a 100% stake in Frank Russell Company for a total consideration of 1,678.5 million.
In the prior period, the Group also completed the acquisition of Bonds.
com, resulting in a majority stake of 60.36% in the company for a consideration of 8.8 million.
Under Regulation 7 of The Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008, the Group elected not to prepare partnership accounts for its indirect partnership interest in London Stock Exchange Connectivity Solutions LP, as its results are contained in the consolidated group accounts.
A full list of subsidiaries is provided in Note 35.
Clearnet Group Limited is the only subsidiary that has material non-controlling interests within the Group.
Financial information relating to this subsidiary is provided below: Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Accumulated balances of material non-controlling interests 339.0 329.3 Profits losses allocated to material non-controlling interests 9.7 13.2 Accumulated balances included goodwill, purchased intangible assets and associated amortisation and impairments attributable to non-controlling interests.
The summarised financial information of LCH.
Clearnet Group is provided below.
This information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations.
Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Summarised statement of profit or loss m m Total income 360.6 238.5 Profit for the year period 57.0 27.6 Total comprehensive income 69.3 30.7 Attributable to non-controlling interests 29.2 13.0 125 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Summarised statement of financial position m m Non-current assets 239.4 219.1 Current assets 312,360.9 325,870.2 Current liabilities 311,764.8 325,270.7 Non-current liabilities 152.6 166.9 Total equity 682.9 651.7 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 394.7 376.7 Non-controlling interests 288.2 275.0 Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 14.3 47.7 LCH.
Clearnet Group was acquired on 1 May 2013.
Their results have been incorporated from that date.
Deferred tax The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year period are shown below.
Acquisition Provisions and Accelerated deferred tax other tax and temporary depreciation amortisation differences Total revised Group m m m m 1 April 2014 8.4 316.2 26.4 281.4 Transfer between categories 2.8 5.5 8.3 Tax credited to the income statement 0.7 33.2 1.9 30.6 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income: defined benefit pension scheme remeasurement loss 0.7 0.7 allowance on share options awards 1.5 1.5 movement in value of available for sale financial assets 0.9 0.9 foreign exchange 0.4 10.5 10.1 Balance sheet transfer of pre-acquisition balances 4.5 37.9 33.4 Deferred tax recognised on acquisition revised 580.6 580.6 31 December 2014 revised 5.6 847.6 57.2 784.8 Transfer between categories 3.1 3.1 Tax credited charged to the income statement 1.2 56.2 0.6 56.8 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income: defined benefit pension scheme remeasurement loss 2.8 2.8 foreign exchange 19.2 19.2 Allowance on share options awards to equity 0.1 0.1 Reclassification to assets held for sale 1.6 199.8 42.3 159.1 31 December 2015 8.4 613.9 14.5 591.0 Assets at 31 December 2015 8.4 26.2 34.6 Liabilities at 31 December 2015 613.9 11.7 625.6 Net assets liabilities at 31 December 2015 8.4 613.9 14.5 591.0 Assets at 31 December 2014 10.5 66.0 76.5 Liabilities at 31 December 2014 revised 4.9 847.6 8.8 861.3 Net assets liabilities at 31 December 2014 revised 5.6 847.6 57.2 784.8 The deferred tax assets are recoverable against future taxable profits and are due after more than 1 year.
126 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements The deferred tax asset of 14.5 million 31 December 2014: 57.2 million in respect of provisions and other temporary differences mainly relates to share based payments 7.5 million 31 December 2014: 5.4 million, retirement benefits liability of 3.1 million 31 December 2014: 5.6 million, trading losses 6.1 million 31 December 2014: 4.3 million and other provisions and temporary differences 4.0 million 31 December 2014: 13.4 million.
The purchased intangible assets of the acquired subsidiaries create a deferred tax liability due to the difference between their accounting and tax treatment.
This liability is amortised at the same rate as the intangible assets.
The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of losses of 20.5 million 31 December 2014: 20.4 million within certain Group subsidiaries.
The assets would be recognised in the future only if suitable taxable income were to arise within the Group.
There was no deferred tax in the Company.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates separate defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
The assets of the defined benefit and defined contribution schemes in the UK are held separately from those of the Group in funds administered by trustees.
The funds are primarily managed by Schroder Investment Management Limited, Legal & General Investment Management Limited, PIMCO Europe Limited and a buy in insurance asset with Pension Insurance Corporation.
The assets of the UK schemes are held by the trustees of the respective schemes who are responsible for the schemes governance.
The schemes are invested in a wide range of assets in the UK and overseas, which seek to balance risk and investment return, through investment managers appointed by the schemes trustees.
The plan assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
The Other plans relate to the severance and leaving indemnity scheme Trattamento di Fine Rapporto TFR operated by the Italian group in accordance with Italian law, the employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIT and the pension commitments of LCH.
All schemes are governed by the local regulatory framework and employment laws in the country in which they operate.
The Company has no retirement benefit obligations.
The only schemes operated by FTSE International and Frank Russell Company are defined contribution schemes.
Defined benefit schemes The LSEG UK defined benefit scheme was a non-contributory scheme and closed to new members in 1999.
With effect from 31 March 2012, the scheme also closed to accrual of future benefits for active members and it has been agreed that the benefits for affected members will remain linked to their salary with the Group.
The defined benefit scheme operated by LCH.
Clearnet was closed to new members from 30 September 2009.
The scheme was closed to further employee contributions from 31 March 2013.
Pension scheme obligations and costs are determined by an independent qualified actuary on a regular basis using the projected unit credit method.
The obligations are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the scheme and are reflected in the Group balance sheet.
The TFR operated by the Italian group is classified as an unfunded defined benefit scheme for funds accumulated prior to 1 July 2007.
The service cost, representing deferred salaries accruing to employees, was included as an operating expense and was determined by law at 6.91% of salary payments subject to certain adjustments.
The scheme obligation comprises accumulated service costs and is revalued by law at a rate equal to 75% of national life price index 1.5% by an independent qualified actuary.
Since 1 July 2007, the Group retains no obligation, as contributions are made directly into Italian state funds in the manner of a defined contribution scheme.
The employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIT is classified as a defined benefit plan.
The net obligation in respect of this plan is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
Once an employee is continuously employed for more than 5 years, he or she is entitled to a payment equivalent to half a months gross salary multiplied by the number of years in service at MillenniumIT.
Defined contribution schemes The Groups defined contribution schemes are now the only schemes open to new employees in the Group.
For the UK pension plan, a core contribution of 4 to 8% of pensionable pay is provided and the Group will match employee contributions up to a maximum of 6 to 10% of pensionable pay.
LCH pays fixed contributions to the defined contribution scheme and there is no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions.
127 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued Amounts recognised in the income statement from continuing operations are as follows: 1 Year ended 31 December 2015 Period ended 31 December 2014 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total 1 Re-presented Notes m m m m m m m m Defined contribution schemes 2.7 5.4 6.4 14.5 2.5 5.2 3.7 11.4 Defined benefit scheme current service cost and expenses 1.0 1.1 1.5 3.6 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.7 Total pension charge included in employee costs 6 3.7 6.5 7.9 18.1 3.0 5.3 3.8 12.1 Net finance expense income 8 1.0 0.6 0.2 0.6 0.8 0.6 0.3 0.5 Total recognised in the income statement 4.7 5.9 8.1 18.7 3.8 4.7 4.1 12.6 1.
Defined benefit assets obligations for pension schemes 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total m m m m m m m m Fair value of assets: Equities quoted 6.7 93.6 100.3 9.1 94.6 0.1 103.8 Bonds quoted 116.9 102.5 0.4 219.8 126.7 105.3 0.2 232.2 Property 2.1 2.1 0.8 0.1 0.9 Cash 2.3 2.9 5.2 6.2 7.3 0.1 13.6 Pensioner buy in policy 167.0 167.0 162.0 162.0 Foreign exchange 5.4 0.1 5.5 Total fair value of assets 295.0 199.0 0.4 494.4 304.8 201.8 0.4 507.0 Present value of funded obligations 323.5 173.8 12.5 509.8 331.9 185.8 13.1 530.8 Deficit surplus 28.5 25.2 12.1 15.4 27.1 16.0 12.7 23.8 UK pension plan actuarial assumptions are set out below: Year ended 31 December 2015 Period ended 31 December 2014 LSEG UK LCH UK LSEG UK LCH UK Inflation rate RPI 3.1% 3.1% 3.1% 3.1% Inflation rate CPI 2.1% 2.1% 2.1% 2.1% Rate of increase in salaries 3.1% n a 3.1% n a Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.4% 2.1% 3.4% 2.2% Discount rate 3.9% 4.0% 3.7% 3.7% Life expectancy from age 60 years Non-retired male member 28.7 30.5 28.6 30.4 Non-retired female member 30.6 32.9 30.5 32.8 Retired male member 27.2 28.3 27.1 28.1 Retired female member 29.3 30.5 29.2 30.4 The mortality assumptions are based on the standard tables S1NA published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries adjusted to take account of projected future improvements in life expectancy from the Self Administered Pension Scheme SAPS mortality survey, which was published in 2008.
We have used an allowance for CMI 2013 projections and applied a 1.25% 1.00% for male female long term trend rate in respect of future mortality improvements.
128 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Sensitivities The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the LSEG UK scheme obligations are: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme obligations Inflation rate CPI Increase by 0.5% Increase by 4.2m Rate of increase in pensions payment Increase by 0.5% Increase by 21.5m Discount rate Increase by 0.5% Reduce by 24.1m Mortality rate Increase by 1 year Increase by 10.1m The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations during the year period Year ended 31 December 2015 Period ended 31 December 2014 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total m m m m m m m m Benefit obligation as at beginning of year period 331.9 185.8 13.1 530.8 300.6 153.0 13.4 467.0 Pension expense income : Current service cost 1.8 1.8 0.2 0.1 0.1 Interest cost 12.1 6.8 0.2 19.1 10.0 5.1 0.3 15.4 Subtotal included in the income statement 12.1 6.8 2.0 20.9 10.0 4.9 0.4 15.3 Re-measurement gains losses: Actuarial gains losses financial assumptions 10.6 15.6 1.1 27.3 30.6 31.7 1.1 63.4 Actuarial gains demographic assumptions 3.2 3.2 Actuarial losses gains experience 0.7 0.1 0.6 2.1 0.2 2.3 Other actuarial movements through the income statement 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Subtotal included in other comprehensive income 9.9 15.6 1.3 26.8 28.5 28.5 1.0 58.0 Benefits paid 10.6 2.8 0.6 14.0 7.2 1.8 1.1 10.1 Foreign exchange 0.4 0.7 1.1 1.2 0.6 0.6 Benefit obligation as at end of year period 323.5 173.8 12.5 509.8 331.9 185.8 13.1 530.8 Movement in fair value of scheme assets during the year period Year ended 31 December 2015 Period ended 31 December 2014 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total m m m m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets as at beginning of year period 304.8 201.8 0.4 507.0 276.7 167.5 0.4 444.6 Pension income: Interest income 11.1 7.4 18.5 9.2 5.7 14.9 Subtotal included in the income statement 11.1 7.4 18.5 9.2 5.7 14.9 Re-measurement gains: Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 11.9 7.1 19.0 23.1 29.3 52.4 Subtotal included in other comprehensive income 11.9 7.1 19.0 23.1 29.3 52.4 Contributions by employer 2.6 0.1 2.7 3.5 0.5 0.2 4.2 Expenses 1.0 1.0 0.5 0.2 0.7 Benefits paid 10.6 2.8 13.4 7.2 1.8 0.2 9.2 Foreign exchange 0.4 0.4 0.8 0.8 Fair value of scheme assets as at end of year period 295.0 199.0 0.4 494.4 304.8 201.8 0.4 507.0 The actual loss on plan assets was 0.5 million period ended 31 December 2014: gain 67.2 million.
129 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued Defined benefit actuarial gains and losses recognised The experience adjustments and the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions of the pension scheme during the year are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income: Year ended 31 December 2015 Period ended 31 December 2014 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans m m m m m m Recognised up to beginning year period 33.3 7.2 1.5 27.9 6.6 0.7 Net actuarial loss gain recognised in the year period 2.0 8.5 1.3 5.4 0.6 0.8 Cumulative amount recognised at end of year period 35.3 15.7 0.2 33.3 7.2 1.5 The last actuarial valuation of the defined benefit scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2012 by an independent qualified actuary.
The Group is currently in discussion on the preliminary results of the valuation as at 31 March 2015 and the related schedule of contributions.
The actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2015 may result in an adjustment to future contribution levels.
The Group estimates the present value of the duration of defined benefit obligations on average to fall due over 20 years.
Trade and other receivables Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 revised Note m m m m Trade receivables 178.6 152.8 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 6.7 5.0 Trade receivables net 171.9 147.8 Amounts due from Group undertakings 33 547.9 653.8 Amounts due from associates 0.2 Other receivables 46.2 178.9 0.9 Prepayments and accrued income 113.0 253.5 1.4 0.6 331.3 580.2 550.2 654.4 The carrying values less impairment provision of trade and other receivables are reasonable approximations of fair values.
Trade receivables that are not past due are not considered to be impaired.
The ageing of past due debtors for the Group is as follows: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Impaired Not impaired Impaired Not impaired m m m m 0 to 3 months past due 0.6 12.3 50.5 Greater than 3 months past due 6.1 16.0 5.0 35.1 6.7 28.3 5.0 85.6 The carrying amount of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 revised m m Sterling 126.7 155.5 Euro 79.6 101.0 US Dollar 108.3 310.3 Other Currencies 16.7 13.4 331.3 580.2 130 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m 1 January 2015 1 April 2014 5.0 5.2 Provision for receivables impairment 3.0 2.2 Receivables written off during the year period as uncollectible 1.1 0.4 Provisions no longer required 1.9 Foreign exchange 0.2 0.1 31 December 6.7 5.0 The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in operating expenses in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables and the other categories of financial assets do not contain impaired assets.
Financial assets and financial liabilities Financial instruments by category The financial instruments of the Group and Company are categorised as follows: Group Company Financial Financial Available for instruments at instruments at Held-tosale at fair fair value fair value Loans and maturity value through through profit Loans and through profit receivables assets OCI or loss Total receivables or loss Total 31 December 2015 m m m m m m m m Assets as per balance sheet Financial assets of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading assets 273,531.5 273,531.5 Receivables for repurchase transactions 127,603.0 127,603.0 Other receivables from clearing members 7,119.5 7,119.5 Financial assets 102.4 10,038.3 9,849.6 19,990.3 Cash and cash equivalents of clearing members 28,444.2 28,444.2 Financial assets of the CCP clearing business 163,166.7 102.4 10,038.3 283,381.1 456,688.5 Assets held at fair value 1.4 1.4 Total financial assets for CCP clearing business 163,166.7 102.4 10,038.3 283,382.5 456,689.9 Other non-current assets 46.0 46.0 Trade and other receivables 331.3 331.3 550.2 550.2 Cash and cash equivalents 923.9 923.9 0.9 0.9 Assets held at fair value 8.5 8.5 Available for sale financial assets 61.0 61.0 Derivatives not designated as hedges Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.4 0.4 Derivatives used for hedging Net investment hedges: Cross currency interest rate swaps 47.5 47.5 47.5 47.5 Total 164,467.9 102.4 10,107.8 283,430.4 458,108.5 551.1 47.5 598.6 There were no transfers between categories during the year.
131 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued Group Company Financial Financial liabilities at fair Financial liabilities at fair Financial liabilities value through liabilities at value through at amortised cost profit and loss Total amortised cost profit and loss Total 31 December 2015 m m m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading liabilities 273,531.5 273,531.5 Liabilities under repurchase transactions 127,603.1 127,603.1 Other payables to clearing members 55,528.4 55,528.4 Financial liabilities held at fair value 0.3 0.3 Total financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business 183,131.5 273,531.8 456,663.3 Trade and other payables 452.4 452.4 201.9 201.9 Borrowings 1,608.9 1,608.9 885.1 885.1 Provisions 10.8 10.8 Other non-current liabilities 33.8 31.5 65.3 Other non-current payables 43.5 43.5 Total 185,280.9 273,563.3 458,844.2 1,087.0 1,087.0 There were no transfers between categories during the year.
The financial instruments of the Group and Company at the previous years balance sheet date were as follows: Group Company Financial Financial Available instruments instruments Held-tofor sale at at fair value at fair value Loans and maturity fair value through profit Loans and through profit receivables assets through OCI or loss Total receivables or loss Total 31 December 2014 m m m m m m m m Assets as per balance sheet Financial assets of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading assets 293,722.9 293,722.9 Receivables for repurchase transactions 113,084.8 113,084.8 Other receivables from clearing members 2,908.3 2,908.3 Financial assets 306.1 10,806.8 9,123.9 20,236.8 Cash and cash equivalents of clearing members 21,493.0 21,493.0 Financial assets of the CCP clearing business 137,486.1 306.1 10,806.8 302,846.8 451,445.8 Assets held at fair value 12.4 12.4 Total financial assets for CCP clearing business 137,486.1 306.1 10,806.8 302,859.2 451,458.2 Other non-current assets 42.9 21.9 64.8 Trade and other receivables revised 576.6 3.6 580.2 654.4 654.4 Cash and cash equivalents 1,052.0 75.2 1,127.2 0.2 0.2 Available for sale financial assets 4.8 4.8 Derivatives not designated as hedges Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.4 0.4 Derivatives used for hedging Net investment hedges: Cross currency interest rate swaps 22.7 22.7 22.7 22.7 Total 139,157.6 306.1 10,811.6 302,983.0 453,258.3 654.6 22.7 677.3 Balances on available for sale at fair value through OCI in the prior period, included 306.1 million of government issued bonds, which were held to maturity.
These have been re-classified in the current year.
132 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Group Company Financial Financial Financial liabilities at fair Financial liabilities at fair liabilities at value through liabilities at value through amortised cost profit and loss Total amortised cost profit and loss Total 31 December 2014 m m m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading liabilities 293,722.8 293,722.8 Liabilities under repurchase transactions 113,084.8 113,084.8 Other payables to clearing members 44,650.1 44,650.1 Financial liabilities held at fair value 9.8 9.8 Total financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business 157,734.9 293,732.6 451,467.5 Trade and other payables 727.4 727.4 195.0 195.0 Borrowings 1,726.4 1,726.4 923.7 923.7 Provisions 14.4 14.4 Other non-current liabilities 43.1 34.4 77.5 Other non-current payables 73.3 73.3 Total 160,319.5 293,767.0 454,086.5 1,118.7 1,118.7 There were no transfers between categories during the prior period.
The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2015: Group Quoted prices in active Significant observable Significant markets inputs unobservable inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value m m m m Financial assets measured at fair value: CCP trading assets Derivative instruments: Futures 6,546.1 6,546.1 Options 1,355.0 1,355.0 Commodities derivatives 42.8 42.8 Non-derivative instruments: CCP transactions 5.0 265,582.6 265,587.6 Financial assets: Equities and bonds 9,851.0 9,851.0 Securities 6,605.4 6,605.4 Government backed, bank issue certificates of deposits 3,432.9 3,432.9 Fair value of transactions with CCP members 27,838.2 265,582.6 293,420.8 Assets held at fair value: Government bonds 8.5 8.5 Available for sale financial assets: Investment in unquoted equity Euroclear 4.8 4.8 Government bonds 56.2 56.2 Derivatives not used for hedging: Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.4 0.4 Derivatives used for hedging: Cross currency interest rate swaps 47.5 47.5 At 31 December 2015, the Company had derivative assets of 47.5 million 31 December 2014: 22.7 million.
All derivatives in the Company are cross currency interest rate swaps and classified as Level 2.
133 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued Group Quoted prices in Significant Significant active markets observable inputs unobservable inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value m m m m Financial liabilities measured at fair value: CCP trading liabilities Derivative instruments: Futures 6,546.1 6,546.1 Options 1,355.0 1,355.0 Commodities derivatives 42.8 42.8 Non-derivative instruments: CCP balances 4.9 265,582.7 265,587.6 Financial liabilities held at fair value: Equities and bonds 0.3 0.3 Fair value of transactions with CCP members 7,949.1 265,582.7 273,531.8 Other non-current liabilities: Canadian dollar denominated Put Option 24.0 24.0 Euro denominated Put Option 7.5 7.5 The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2014: Group Quoted prices in Significant Significant active markets observable inputs unobservable inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value m m m m Financial assets measured at fair value: CCP trading assets Derivative instruments: Futures 3,715.9 3,715.9 Options 1,184.3 1,184.3 Commodities derivatives 138.4 138.4 Non-derivative instruments: CCP transactions 5.7 288,678.6 288,684.3 Financial assets: Equities and bonds 6,957.8 6,957.8 Securities 6,491.8 6,491.8 Government backed, bank issued certificates of deposits 6,493.5 6,493.5 Fair value of transactions with CCP members 24,987.4 288,678.6 313,666.0 Available for sale financial assets: Investment in unquoted equity Euroclear 4.8 4.8 Derivatives not used for hedging: Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.4 0.4 Derivatives used for hedging: Cross currency interest rate swaps 22.7 22.7 Other non-current assets: Investments in subordinated trust 11.9 11.9 Investment Funds 2.7 5.3 8.0 Investments in preferred securities 2.0 2.0 Trade and other receivables: Investments in subordinated trusts 3.6 3.6 Cash and cash equivalents: Money market mutual funds 75.2 75.2 134 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Balances on government backed, bank issued certificates of deposits have been restated in the current year to exclude 306.1 million of government issued bonds held to maturity.
Group Quoted prices in active Significant observable Significant markets inputs unobservable inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value m m m m Financial liabilities measured at fair value: CCP trading liabilities Derivative instruments: Futures 3,715.9 3,715.9 Options 1,184.3 1,184.3 Commodities derivatives 138.4 138.4 Non-derivative instruments: CCP balances 5.7 288,678.5 288,684.2 Financial liabilities held at fair value: Equities and bonds 9.8 9.8 Fair value of transactions with CCP members 5,054.1 288,678.5 293,732.6 Other non-current liabilities: Canadian dollar denominated Put Option 26.8 26.8 Euro denominated Put Option 7.6 7.6 The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs, which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
For assets and liabilities classified as Level 1, the fair value is based on market price quotations at the reporting date.
For assets and liabilities classified as Level 2, the fair value is calculated using 1 or more valuation techniques e. g. the market approach or the income approach with market observable inputs.
The selection of the appropriate valuation techniques may be affected by the availability of the relevant inputs as well as the reliability of the inputs.
The inputs may include currency rates, interest rate and forward rate curves and net asset values.
The results of the application of the various techniques may not be equally representative of fair value, due to factors such as assumptions made in the valuation.
There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year or in the prior period.
When observable market data is not available, the Group uses 1 or more valuation techniques e. g. the market approach or the income approach for which sufficient and reliable data is available.
These inputs used in estimating the fair value of Level 3 financial instruments include expected timing and level of future cash flows, timing of settlement, discount rates and net asset values of certain investments.
At the end of the prior period, the Group held investments in preferred securities and investment funds for which there was no active market.
These interests, in the absence of a recent and relevant secondary market transaction, were classified as Level 3 because the valuations required significant levels of management judgement.
All interests in Level 3 investments were reclassified to assets held for sale of during the year.
The Group had no Level 3 financial instruments at the end of the year.
There were no gains or losses from Level 3 assets and liabilities for the year recognised in the income statement and in the statement of other comprehensive income.
135 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued The following table provides a reconciliation from opening balance to closing balance of Level 3 assets: Investment funds Investment in preferred securities m m Balance at 1 January 2015 5.3 2.0 Reclassified to assets held for sale 5.3 2.0 Balance at 31 December 2015 With the exception of Group borrowings, management has assessed that the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities categorised as Loans and receivables, Held to Maturity and Financial liabilities at amortised cost approximate their carrying values.
The fair value of the Groups borrowings is disclosed in Note 24.
The Groups financial assets and liabilities held at fair value consist largely of securities restricted in use for the operations of the Groups CCPs as managers of their respective clearing and guarantee systems.
The nature and composition of the CCP clearing business assets and liabilities are explained in the accounting policies section in Note 1.
As at 31 December 2015, there were no provisions for impairment in relation to any of the CCP financial assets 31 December 2014: nil and none of these assets were past due 31 December 2014: nil.
Other non-current assets include financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss of nil 31 December 2014: 21.9 million, prepayments relating to tax and insurances of 42.5 million 31 December 2014: 35.4 million, rental deposits of 0.8 million 31 December 2014: 0.4 million, deferred commissions of nil 31 December 2014: 1.3 million, finance lease recoverable of 1.9 million 31 December 2014: 1.9 million and other financial assets are 0.8 million 31 December 2014: 3.9 million.
Other non-current liabilities include deferred consideration of 17.1 million 31 December 2014: 15.9 million, put options of 31.5 million 31 December 2014: 34.4 million, non-current lease obligations of nil 31 December 2014: 5.1 million, rental deposits of 2.8 million 31 December 2014: nil and other financial liabilities related to the clearing business of 13.9 million 31 December 2014: 22.1 million.
Other non-current payables included incentive compensation liabilities of 40.7 million 31 December 2014: 31.7 million, deferred compensation of nil 31 December 2014: 12.9 million, tax liabilities of 2.7 million 31 December 2014: 3.0 million and long term liabilities including tenant improvements and rentals of 0.1 million 31 December 2014: 25.7 million.
Hedging activities and derivatives Derivative financial assets of 47.5 million represents the fair value of the cross currency interest rate swaps amounting to 10 contracts totalling 500.0 million notional.
These effectively exchange some of the obligations and coupons of the 2016 and the 2019 250.0 million bonds from Sterling into Euros in order to more closely match the currency of borrowings to the Groups currency of net assets and earnings.
This results in a reduction in translation exposure on Euro denominated net assets and the protection of Sterling cash flows.
These swaps have been designated as a hedge of the Groups net investment in the Italian group and qualify for effective hedge accounting.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group recognised the 24.8 million movement in mark to market value of these derivatives in reserves period ended 31 December 2014: 20.0 million.
Foreign exchange forward contracts were arranged during the year to hedge the fair value of Euro, USD and JPY denominated exposures.
These hedges forward buy and sell payables and receivables denominated in Euro, USD and JPY, with the mark to market adjustments offsetting the hedged item revaluation in the income statement.
This also offers more predictable cash flows to the Group at maturity.
At 31 December 2015, payables of 17 million 31 December 2014: nil and US$28.5 million 31 December 2014: US$12.7 million and receivables of JPY4.2 billion 31 December 2014: JPY4.2 billion were hedged forward into the next financial year.
The market value of the hedges was 0.4 million 31 December 2014: 0.4 million in aggregate.
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The Group reports financial assets and financial liabilities on a net basis on the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
The following table shows the impact of netting arrangements on all financial assets and liabilities that are reported net on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2015.
Gross Amount Net amount as amounts offset reported 31 December 2015 m m m Derivative financial assets 1,619,842.3 1,617,730.3 2,112.0 Reverse repurchase agreements 434,753.9 171,278.6 263,475.3 Total assets 2,054,596.2 1,789,008.9 265,587.3 Derivative financial liabilities 1,614,067.0 1,611,955.0 2,112.0 Reverse repurchase agreements 434,753.9 171,278.6 263,475.3 Total liabilities 2,048,820.9 1,783,233.6 265,587.3 136 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements The impact of netting arrangements on all financial assets and liabilities that are reported net on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2014 is as follows: Gross Amount Net amount as 1 1 amounts offset reported 31 December 2014 m m m Derivative financial assets 3,180,302.5 3,179,055.5 1,247.0 Reverse repurchase agreements 459,908.4 172,469.5 287,438.9 Total assets 3,640,210.9 3,351,525.0 288,685.9 Derivative financial liabilities 3,180,302.5 3,179,055.5 1,247.0 Reverse repurchase agreements 459,908.4 172,469.5 287,438.9 Total liabilities 3,640,210.9 3,351,525.0 288,685.9 1.
G ross amounts and amounts offset in relation to derivative financial assets and liabilities have been amended from those previously reported as at 31 December 2014.
As a result, there has been no impact to the net amount reported in the balance sheet, amounts reported in the income statement, cash flow statement or any other disclosures in the financial statements.
All offset amounts are held in the CCP trading assets and CCP trading liabilities within the Groups financial instruments.
As CCPs, the Groups operating companies sit in the middle of members transactions and hold default funds and margin amounts as a contingency against the default of a member.
As such, further amounts are available to offset in the event of a default reducing the asset and liability of 265,587.3 million 31 December 2014: 288,685.9 million to nil.
Default funds for derivatives of 3,860.0 million 31 December 2014: 5,689.8 million, repurchase agreements of 1,481.9 million 31 December 2014: 1,452.3 million and other transactions of 197.5 million 31 December 2014: 312.6 million are held by the Group.
In addition, the Group holds margin of 71,158.0 million 31 December 2014: 49,400.6 million for derivatives, 29,424.0 million 31 December 2014: 22,249.2 million for repurchase agreements and 3,080.0 million 31 December 2014: 2,305.4 million for other transactions, as well as additional variation margin amounts which are not allocated by business line.
Included within member assets and liabilities are 277.5 million 31 December 2014: nil and 83.1 million 31 December 2014: nil respectively in relation to contracts where changes in net present value have settled to market available for members to opt in with effect from December 2015.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Cash at bank 359.0 929.7 0.9 0.2 Short term deposits 564.9 197.5 923.9 1,127.2 0.9 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents are held with authorised counterparties of a high credit standing, in secured investments at LCH.
Clearnet Group companies and at CC&G and unsecured interest bearing current and call accounts, short term deposits and AAA rated money market funds elsewhere in the Group.
Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by the counterparties holding cash and cash equivalents, and there are no material differences between their book and fair values.
Cash and cash equivalents do not include amounts held by certain subsidiaries on behalf of their clearing members, the use of which is restricted to the operation of the clearers as managers of the clearing and guarantee system see note 20.
At 31 December 2015, cash and cash equivalents shown above include 719.1 million 31 December 2014: 1,011.3 million of amounts held by regulated entities for regulatory and operational purposes.
Total amounts set aside for regulatory and operational purposes include current assets held at fair value of 8.5 million 31 December 2014: nil, non-current assets held at fair value of 56.2 million 31 December 2014: nil and amounts held in the Russell Investment Management business which is now reported as discontinued.
All amounts are subject to regular reviews with regulators in the UK, France, Italy and the USA.
137 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Borrowings Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Current Bank borrowings and trade finance loans 680.0 789.9 88.4 127.0 Bonds 250.2 250.2 930.2 789.9 338.6 127.0 Non-current Bonds 546.5 796.7 546.5 796.7 Preferred securities 132.2 139.8 678.7 936.5 546.5 796.7 The Group has the following committed bank facilities and unsecured notes: Interest rate Carrying value at percentage at 31 December 31 December Notes Facility 2015 2015 Type Expiry Date m m % Drawn value of Facilities Multi-currency revolving credit facility Jun 2017 600.0 530.7 LIBOR 0.6 Multi-currency revolving credit facility Nov 2020 600.0 149.3 LIBOR 0.45 Total Bank Facilities 1,200.0 680.0 Bonds due July 2016 Jul 2016 250.0 250.2 5.875 Bonds due October 2019 Oct 2019 250.0 248.6 9.125 Bonds due November 2021 Nov 2021 300.0 297.9 4.75 LCH.
Clearnet Preferred Securities May 2017 147.4 132.2 6.576 Total Bonds 947.4 928.9 Total Committed Facilities 2,147.4 1,608.9 The carrying value of bank drawn facilities and bonds at 31 December 2014 was 789.1 million and 936.5 million, respectively.
Current borrowings The Group arranged 600 million of new, committed facilities in November 2015 to replace existing facilities of 700 million.
The resulting committed bank lines total 1,200 million.
These facilities were partially utilised at 31 December 2015 with 680.0 million 31 December 2014: 789.1 million drawn which includes 1.7 million of deferred arrangement fees.
In July 2006, the Company issued a 250 million bond which is unsecured and is due for repayment in July 2016.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in January and July each year.
The issue price of the bond was 99.679 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is dependent on movements in the Companys credit rating with Moodys which improved 1 notch to Baa1 during the financial year.
The bond coupon consequently reduced from 6.125% per annum to 5.875% per annum during this year.
In addition, a number of Group entities have access to uncommitted operational, money market and overdraft facilities which support post trade activities and day to day liquidity requirements across its operations.
The aggregate drawings against these facilities as at 31 December 2015 was nil 31 December 2014: 0.8 million.
138 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements CC&G has direct intra-day access to refinancing with the Bank of Italy to cover its operational liquidity requirements in the event of a market stress or participant failure.
In addition, it has arranged back-up credit lines with a number of commercial banks, which totaled 420 million at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: 400 million, for overnight and longer durations to broaden its liquidity resources consistent with requirements under the European Markets Infrastructure Regulation EMIR.
Clearnet SA has a French banking licence and is able to access refinancing at the European Central Bank to support its liquidity position.
Clearnet Limited is deemed to have sufficient fungible liquid assets to maintain an appropriate liquidity position and, following the announcement by the Bank of England on 5 November 2014, is eligible to apply for participation in the sterling monetary framework to further support the CCP in member or market stress scenarios.
Non-current borrowings In June 2009, the Company issued a 250 million bond which is unsecured and is due for repayment in October 2019.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in April and October each year.
The issue price of the bond was 99.548 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is dependent on the Companys credit ratings with Moodys and Standard & Poors.
The bond coupon remained at 9.125% per annum throughout the financial period.
In November 2012, the Company issued a 300 million bond under its euro medium term notes programme launched at the same time which is unsecured and is due for repayment in November 2021.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in May and November each year.
The issue price of the bond was 100 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is fixed at 4.75% per annum.
Clearnet Group Limited issued through Freshwater Finance plc a 200 million of Perpetual Preferred Securities to underpin its capital structure.
20 million of these Securities were subsequently repurchased in the market by LCH.
The coupon on these Securities is currently a fixed rate of 6.576% per annum and interest is paid annually.
In May 2017, this coupon will be replaced by a rate of 3 month Euribor plus 2.1% per annum, and is the trigger point for a first call of the Securities.
Fair values The fair values of the Groups borrowings are as follows: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Group m m m m Borrowings within 1 year 930.2 935.7 789.9 789.9 after more than 1 year 678.7 772.6 936.5 1,067.8 1,608.9 1,708.3 1,726.4 1,857.7 The fair values of the Companys borrowings are as follows: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Company m m m m Borrowings within 1 year 338.5 344.0 127.0 127.0 after more than 1 year 546.6 637.4 796.7 920.0 885.1 981.4 923.7 1,047.0 Borrowings are classified as Level 2 in the Groups hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments.
The fair values of borrowings are based on discounted cash flows using a rate based on borrowing cost.
Floating rate borrowings bear interest at an agreed margin over LIBOR.
The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Drawn Swapped Effective Drawn Swapped Effective Currency m m m m m m Sterling 885.1 368.5 516.6 923.7 389.5 534.2 Euro 132.2 368.5 500.7 140.1 389.5 529.6 USD 591.6 591.6 662.1 662.1 Sri Lankan Rupees 0.5 0.5 Total 1,608.9 1,608.9 1,726.4 1,726.4 The carrying amounts of the Companys borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Drawn Swapped Effective Drawn Swapped Effective Currency m m m m m m Sterling 885.1 368.5 516.6 923.7 389.5 534.2 Euro 368.5 368.5 389.5 389.5 Total 885.1 885.1 923.7 923.7 139 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
Analysis of net debt Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Due within 1 year Cash and cash equivalents 923.9 1,127.2 0.9 0.2 Bank borrowings 680.0 789.9 88.4 127.0 Bonds 250.2 250.2 Derivative financial assets 25.5 0.4 25.0 19.2 337.7 312.7 126.8 Due after 1 year Bonds 546.5 796.7 546.5 796.7 Preferred securities 132.2 139.8 Derivative financial assets 22.4 22.7 22.4 22.7 Total net debt 637.1 576.1 836.8 900.8 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Increase in cash in the year period 90.2 254.5 0.7 0.2 Bank loan repayments less new drawings 143.5 519.9 38.7 101.0 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 233.7 265.4 39.4 100.8 Foreign exchange movements 67.0 29.4 0.1 0.2 Movement on derivative financial assets and liabilities 24.8 23.8 24.7 20.0 Bond valuation adjustment 0.1 0.1 Reclassification to assets held for sale 252.5 Net debt at the start of the year period 576.1 305.2 900.8 819.9 Net debt at the end of the year period 637.1 576.1 836.8 900.8 26.
Share capital and premium Ordinary shares issued and fully paid Number of Ordinary Share 1 shares shares premium Total millions m m m At 1 April 2014 271.1 18.8 18.8 Issue of shares to the Employee Benefit Trust 1.5 0.1 0.1 Rights issue 74.3 5.0 957.7 962.7 At 31 December 2014 346.9 23.9 957.7 981.6 Issue of shares 1.0 0.1 0.1 Issue of shares to the Employee Benefit Trust 0.4 2.3 2.3 At 31 December 2015 348.3 24.0 960.0 984.0 79 1.
Ordinary Shares of 6 86p 79 In the current year, the Group issued 1,000,000 ordinary shares period ended 31 December 2014: 1,500,000 ordinary shares at par value 6 86 pence to the Employee Benefit Trust in relation to the Groups employee share option schemes.
79 In addition, the Group issued 419,602 ordinary shares of par value 6 86 pence at 564.663 pence to settle employee Save As You Earn share plans.
This generated a premium of 2.3 million.
In the prior period, the Group announced a 3 for 11 Rights Issue on 22 August 2014 in relation to the acquisition of the Frank Russell Company.
The Rights Issue 79 took place on 11 September 2014 and constituted 74,347,813 new ordinary shares of par value 6 86 pence at 1,295 pence.
This generated share premium of 957.7 million.
The new ordinary shares issued during the Rights Issue have the same rights as the other shares in issue.
140 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 27.
Provisions Property Other Total Group m m m 1 January 2015 14.4 14.4 Utilised during the year 1.1 1.1 Unwinding of discount on provision 1.2 1.2 Provisions no longer required 3.5 3.5 Additional charge in the year 0.9 0.9 Reclassification to liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 0.8 0.3 1.1 31 December 2015 10.2 0.6 10.8 Current 0.9 0.6 1.5 Non-current 9.3 9.3 31 December 2015 10.2 0.6 10.8 The property provision represents the estimated net present value of future costs for lease rentals and dilapidation costs less the expected receipts from sub-letting space which is surplus to business requirements.
The leases have between 1 and 13 years to expiry.
Other provisions primarily include legal provisions in relation to ongoing disputes with third parties and other claims against the Group.
These claims are expected to be settled in the next financial year.
The Company has no provisions.
Net cash flow generated from operations Group Company Year ended 31 Period ended 31 Year ended 31 Period ended 31 December 2015 December 2014 December 2015 December 2014 Notes m m m m Profit before taxation 433.7 191.0 46.5 166.0 Depreciation and amortisation 217.4 136.3 Profit on disposal of investment in a subsidiary 10 19.9 0.1 Net finance expense income 8,10 66.2 51.1 91.2 128.5 Increase decrease in inventories 2.7 5.9 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 104.2 0.7 153.2 3.7 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 19.2 14.2 34.4 10.4 Impairment of goodwill and intangibles 14 1.0 22.0 Increase decrease in CCP financial assets 31,702.3 20,425.6 Increase decrease in CCP clearing business liabilities 31,649.4 20,380.1 Decrease in assets held at fair value 2.7 5.0 Defined benefit pension obligation contributions in excess of expenses charged 2.8 3.1 Provisions utilised during the year period 4.6 6.9 Reduction in obligation arising from acquisition of business 2.4 Share scheme expense 32.1 4.2 Foreign exchange losses on operating activities 4.6 9.8 24.7 13.7 Purchase of investment funds 21.1 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment and assets held for sale 0.8 Cash generated from operations 734.1 413.4 118.2 30.5 Comprising: Ongoing operating activities 803.7 481.3 159.9 4.1 Non-recurring items 69.6 67.9 41.7 34.6 734.1 413.4 118.2 30.5 29.
Commitments and contingencies Contracted capital commitments and other contracted commitments not provided for in the financial statements of the Group were 0.9 million period ended 31 December 2014: 1.9 million and nil period ended 31 December 2014: nil, respectively.
In the normal course of business, the Group and Company receive legal claims in respect of commercial, employment and other matters.
Where a claim is more likely than not to result in an economic outflow of benefits from the Group or Company, a provision is made representing the expected cost of settling such claims.
141 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 30. Business combinations Acquisitions in the year to 31 December 2015 The Group made 2 acquisitions in the year ended 31 December 2015.
Exactpro Systems Limited On 29 May 2015, the Group acquired a 100% interest in Exactpro Systems Limited Exactpro for a total consideration of US$6.8 million 4.3 million, comprising 2.2 million cash consideration and 2.1 million deferred consideration.
The main activity of Exactpro is to provide quality assurance to exchanges, investment banks, brokers and other financial sector organisations worldwide.
The provisional fair value of net assets acquired was 1.4 million and the Group recognised 2.9 million in goodwill: these fair values will be finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
The Groups consolidated income statement for the year includes revenue of 1.6 million and operating profit of 0.9 million in respect of the Exactpro business since the acquisition date.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2015, the estimated Group revenue for the year from continuing operations would have been 1,327.5 million, with operating profit before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items of 582.9 million.
These amounts have been calculated using the Groups accounting policies and based on available information.
XTF Inc. On 21 December 2015, the Group acquired the trade and assets from XTF Inc. XTF for consideration of US$1.5 million 1.0 million.
Cash consideration amounting to 0.7 million was paid to the seller in the year ended 31 December 2015, and an estimated 0.3 million is payable on completion of the purchase price exercise.
XTF is a U. S. based provider of high-quality ETF data, analytics and ratings.
The Group recognised provisional goodwill of 1.0 million and the provisional fair value of net assets acquired was nil.
The fair values are preliminary and will be finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
The post acquisition revenues and operating profit attributable to the XTF assets were not material to the Group.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2015, the results of XTF would have had an immaterial impact on the Groups revenue and operating profit from continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2015.
None of the goodwill in relation to the 2 acquisitions in the year is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Acquisitions in the period to 31 December 2014 The Group made 2 acquisitions during the period ended 31 December 2014.
Frank Russell Company On 2 December 2014, the Group completed the acquisition of the entire issue share capital of Frank Russell Company Russell.
Russell operated in 2 segments, those being information services through its index business and investment management.
The index business is a leading provider of benchmarks to US-focused equity funds and also provides customised and innovative index solutions for clients.
The investment management business held US$273 billion assets under management at the end of December 2014 and is a leading provider of multi-asset class investment solutions to institutional and retail investors worldwide.
The consideration paid by the Group at completion was 1,678.5 million comprising approximately 962.7 million financed from the net proceeds of a Rights Issue and the remaining financed in US dollars by the Groups multi-currency bank debt facilities, including a 600 million multi-currency revolving credit facility.
In the prior period, the Group recognised 476.0 million in provisional goodwill and the provisional fair value of net assets identified was 1,209.9 million, including 1,514.0 million of other intangibles assets.
Subsequent to the period ended 31 December 2014, the Group completed the exercise of attributing fair value adjustments to the assets and liabilities acquired from the Frank Russell Company.
As a result, final fair value adjustments have been made to the previously presented provisional fair values at 31 December 2014 resulting in a reduction in the value of purchase consideration of 9.1 million and an increase in other receivables of 9.1 million.
The impact of these final fair value adjustments is a decrease in goodwill of 9.1 million to amounts previously disclosed in our 31 December 2014 Annual Report and Interim Report 2015.
These have been incorporated with effect from the date of acquisition and the comparative balance sheet and related notes have been revised to reflect these fair value adjustments.
com Group On 8 May 2014, the Group acquired 100% of Bonds.
com Group, a US-based electronic trading platform for U. S. corporate and emerging market bonds for a consideration of 8.8 million.
As at 31 December 2014, the Group recognised 8.7 million in goodwill and the fair value of net assets identified was 0.1 million.
The valuation on the acquisition of Bonds.
com was finalised during the year ended 31 December 2015 and resulted in a reduction of goodwill of 2.6 million, an increase in purchased intangibles of 4.4 million and an increase in deferred tax liability of 1.8 million compared to amounts previously disclosed in our 31 December 2014 Annual Report and Interim Report 2015.
The impact of these final fair value adjustments have been incorporated with effect from the date of acquisition and the comparative balance sheet and related notes have been revised.
142 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 31.
Leases Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group leases various office properties and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases.
The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are due as follows: Property Equipment 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 Leases expiring in: m m m m Less than 1 year 25.4 46.0 0.1 0.3 More than 1 year but less than 5 years 85.8 145.1 0.1 More than 5 years 81.4 120.0 192.6 311.1 0.1 0.4 Operating lease payments of 25.8 million 31 December 2014: 20.6 million were charged to the income statement in the year in relation to property and 0.6 million 31 December 2014: 0.7 million in the year in relation to equipment.
Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The total future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases for property where the Group is lessor are due as follows: Property 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Leases expiring in: m m Less than 1 year 6.6 5.7 More than 1 year but less than 5 years 25.0 19.5 More than 5 years 7.8 4.1 39.4 29.3 Finance lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has finance lease contracts for certain property rentals and software licenses.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Minimum Present value of Minimum Present value of payments payments payments payments Leases expiring in: m m m m Less than 1 year 0.2 0.2 6.1 5.8 More than 1 year but less than 5 years 5.3 5.2 Total minimum lease payments 0.2 0.2 11.4 11.0 Less amounts representing finance charges 0.4 Present value of minimum lease payments 0.2 0.2 11.0 11.0 The Company has no lease commitments.
Finance lease commitments Group as lessor The Group has finance lease contracts for certain property rentals and software licenses.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments Leases expiring in: m m m m Less than 1 year 0.7 0.6 0.7 0.6 More than 1 year but less than 5 years 1.5 1.4 2.3 2.1 More than 5 years Total minimum lease payments 2.2 2.0 3.0 2.7 Less amounts representing finance charges 0.2 0.3 Present value of minimum lease payments 2.0 2.0 2.7 2.7 The Company has no lease commitments.
143 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 32.
Share Schemes The London Stock Exchange Group Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, approved at the 2015 AGM, has 2 elements, a conditional award of Performance Shares and an award of Matching Shares linked to investment by the executive of annual bonus in the Companys shares the latter element is not applicable to Executive Directors.
Vesting of these awards is dependent upon the Companys total shareholder return performance and adjusted basic earnings per share.
Further details are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 7087.
The SAYE scheme and International Sharesave Plan provide for grants of options to employees who enter into a SAYE savings contract and options were granted at 20% below fair market value.
Share awards were granted at nil cost to employees and other share options were granted at fair market value or above.
The Group has an ESOP discretionary trust to administer the share plans and to acquire the shares to meet commitments to Group employees.
At the year end, 462,378 period ended 31 December 2014: 595,179 shares were held by the trust, funded in part by an interest free loan from the Group and in part by the issue of 1.4 million shares period ended 31 December 2014: 1.5 million shares.
The Company has no employees but, in accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements, has the obligation for the assets, liabilities, income and costs of the ESOP trust and these have been consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
The cost of the Groups shares held by the trust are deducted from retained earnings.
The range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life of awards and options outstanding are as follows: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Weighted Weighted average average remaining remaining contractual contractual Number life Number life outstanding Years outstanding Years Share options Less than 7 4,750 9,128 Between 7 and 8 20,140 24,168 Between 8 and 9 11,452 65,966 0.3 SAYE Less than 7 3,236 424,262 0.1 Between 7 and 8 187,720 205,433 0.2 Between 8 and 9 More than 9 729,861 0.8 530,296 1.1 LTIP Nil 6,253,668 1.0 6,739,835 1.5 Between 8 and 9 134,059 Total 7,210,827 1.4 8,133,147 1.4 The fair value of share awards and share options granted during the year was determined using a stochastic valuation model.
The key assumptions used in the valuation were as follows: 144 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Share Save Performance Shares Matching Shares Restricted Share Award Plan 2 April 15 October 18 November 10 April 15 April 15 October 18 November 2 April 15 October 18 November 5 May 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 Grant date share price 24.84 24.75 25.52 25.85 25.20 24.75 25.52 24.84 24.75 25.52 24.77 Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 0.2 years 0.4 years 0.87 years 3.15 years to 2.9 years to 2.4 years to 2.87 years Exercise price n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a.
The approach adopted by the Group in determining the fair value for the Performance and Matching Shares granted during the year was based on a Total Shareholder Return pricing model which incorporates TSR and EPS performance conditions and references the vesting schedules of the awards.
For all other share awards, including the Share Save Plan, the Black-Scholes model was used.
The significant inputs into both models are the share price at grant date, expected volatility, dividend yields and annual risk-free interest rate.
The volatility assumption is based on the historical 3-year volatility as at the date of grant.
The risk-free interest rate represents the yield available on a UK zero-coupon government bond on the date of grant for a term commensurate with the vesting period of the award.
The expected life refers to the time from the date of grant to the date the awards vest.
Holders of share awards and share options are not entitled to receive dividends declared during the vesting period.
Transactions with Related Parties Key management compensation Compensation for Directors of the Company and key personnel who have authority for planning, directing and controlling the Group: Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Salaries and other short term benefits 13.0 9.7 Pensions 0.9 0.8 Share based payments 13.1 7.9 27.0 18.4 145 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued Inter-company transactions with subsidiary undertakings The Company has loans with some subsidiary undertakings.
Details as at 31 December 2015 are shown in the table below: Amount in millions Interest in millions owed to due from as at charge credit Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December Interest rate as at 31 December 31 December Loan counterparty 2015 2014 Term 31 December 2015 2015 2014 London Stock Exchange plc 170.9 m 158.0 m 25 years from May 2006 with LIBOR plus 4.4 m 3.4 m 5 equal annual repayments 2% per annum commencing in May 2027.
London Stock Exchange Employee 21.0m 13.2m Repayable on demand.
Non-interest nil nil Benefit Trust bearing London Stock Exchange Group 97.7m 201.2m Fifth anniversary of the initial EURIBOR plus 2.4m 1.0m Holdings Italy Limited utilisation date which was April 2013.
1.5% per annum London Stock Exchange Group 340.0m 416.3m Tenth anniversary of the LIBOR plus 18.3m 16.0m Holdings Limited initial utilisation date which 4.0% per annum was October 2009.
LSE Reg Holdings Limited 13.5m 2.7m Fifth anniversary of the EURIBOR plus initial utilisation date which 1.2% per annum was December 2013.
LSE Reg Holdings Limited 1.0 m 0.4m Fifth anniversary of the LIBOR plus initial utilisation date which 1.2% per annum was December 2013.
London Stock Exchange C Limited 48.4m 55.7m Fifth anniversary of the initial EURIBOR plus 0.7m 0.6m utilisation date which was April 2012.
1.5% per annum Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus London Stock Exchange C Limited 12.2m 8.6m utilisation date which was April 2012.
1.5% per annum 0.2m 0.1m London Stock Exchange Group $17.4m $5.8m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 1.5% $0.1m nil Holdings Luxembourg Ltd utilisation date which was December per annum 2014.
LSEG Employment Services Limited 11.0m nil Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 1.2% 0.1m nil utilisation date which was January per annum 2015.
During the period, the Company charged in respect of employee share schemes 3.7 million period ended 31 December 2014: 1.5 million to London Stock Exchange plc, 5.0 million period ended 31 December 2014: nil to LSEG Employment Services Limited, 0.7 million period ended 31 December 2014: 0.1 million to London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Inc, 0.3 million period ended 31 December 2014: 0.1 million to SSC Global Business Services Limited previously London Stock Exchange OV Limited, 0.2 million period ended 31 December 2014: 0.1 million to Turquoise Global Holdings Limited, 0.2 million period ended 31 December 2014: nil to UnaVista Limited, 3.1 million period ended 31 December 2014: 0.7 million to London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy Ltd, 1.1 million period ended 31 December 2014: 0.2 million to Millennium Group, 1.9 million period ended 31 December 2014: 0.2 million to FTSE Group, 4.3 million period ended 31 December 2014: 1.4 million to LCH.
Clearnet Group and 0.7 million period ended 31 December 2014: nil to the Frank Russell Group.
The Company received dividends of 125.2 million period ended 31 December 2014: 156.0 million from its subsidiary London Stock Exchange plc.
The Group had 0.2 million 31 December 2014: nil receivable from associates.
Events after the reporting period On 23 February 2016, the Group confirmed that detailed discussions about a potential merger of equals was under way with Deutsche Brse.
The potential merger would be structured as an all-share merger of equals under a new holding company.
Under the terms of the potential merger, LSEG shareholders would be entitled to receive 0.4421 new shares in exchange for each LSEG share and Deutsche Brse shareholders would be entitled to receive 1 new share in exchange for each Deutsche Brse share.
Based on this exchange ratio, the parties anticipate that Deutsche Brse shareholders would hold 54.4%, and LSEG shareholders would hold 45.6% of the enlarged issued and to be issued share capital of the combined group.
The combined group would have a unitary board composed of equal numbers of LSEG and Deutsche Brse Directors.
Discussions between the parties remain ongoing and any transaction would be subject to regulatory approval, Group shareholder approval and Deutsche Brse shareholders acceptance, as well as other customary conditions.
Other Statutory Information Auditors remuneration payable to Ernst and Young LLP and its associates comprise the following: Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Audit of parent and consolidated financial statements 0.5 0.7 Audit of subsidiary companies 1.5 1.0 Audit related assurance services 0.2 0.3 Other non-audit services: Taxation 0.3 0.1 Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 Total 2.6 2.2 146 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements During the period ended 31 December 2014,  LLP, the Groups previous auditor, and its associates charged 0.9 million in relation to their audits of material subsidiaries of the Group, and 1.5 million in relation to non-audit services.
These amounts are excluded from the table above.
Further details of the services provided by Ernst and Young LLP are given in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 6467.
Directors emoluments comprise the following: Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Salary and fees 3.2 2.5 Performance bonus 3.0 2.1 Gains made on share awards 4.5 5.2 Benefits 0.3 0.3 11.0 10.1 Contributions to defined contribution schemes 0.6 0.5 11.6 10.6 During the year, 1 Director period ended 31 December 2014: 1 had retirement benefits accruing under defined contribution schemes and 1 Director period ended 31 December 2014: 1 had retirement benefits accruing under a defined benefit scheme.
Further details of Directors emoluments are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 7087.
Related undertakings A list of the Groups subsidiaries as at 31 December 2015 is given below including the percentage of each class held and the Groups ownership percentages.
The share ownership percentage records the percentage of each subsidiarys share capital owned within the LSEG Group.
Shares owned directly by LSEG plc are listed as being a direct shareholding, shares owned by other LSEG Group companies are listed as an indirect group interest shareholding.
Where more than 1 LSEG Group company owns shares in a subsidiary these interests have been added together.
The ultimate economic interest percentage on the other hand does not show actual share ownership.
It records LSEG plcs effective interest in the subsidiary, allowing for situations where subsidiaries are owned by partly owned intermediate subsidiaries.
All subsidiaries are consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
Country of incorporation Identity of each Direct or indirect holding Share LSEG plc class of share held ownership ultimate in the subsidiary % economic undertaking interest Name of subsidiary undertaking % A Street Investment Associates, Inc United States Common Indirect group interest 100 100 BANQUE CENTRALE fide COMPENSATION LCH.
Clearnet SA France Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 BIRR Portfolio Analysis Inc United States Common Indirect group interest 100 100 Bit Market Services S. p. A. Italy Ordinary Indirect group interest 99.99 99.99 Bondclear Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Bondnet Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Borsa Italiana SpA Italy Ordinary Indirect group interest 99.99 99.99 Cassa Di Compensazione e Garanzia SpA CC&G Italy Ordinary Indirect group interest 99.99 99.99 Equityclear Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 EuroMTS Limited UK Ordinary A Indirect group interest 100 60.36 EuroTLX SIM SpA Italy Ordinary Indirect group interest 70 69.99 Exactpro Systems Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Exactpro Systems, LLC United States Indirect group interest 100 100 Exactpro, LLC Russian Federation Indirect group interest 100 100 ForexClear Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Frank Russell Company United States Common Indirect group interest 100 100 Frank Russell Investment Partners 1997-2 GP United States Partnership Indirect group interest 100 100 Frank Russell Investment Partners 1997-1 GP United States Partnership Indirect group interest 100 100 FRF Partners II LLC United States Class B Indirect group interest 98.16 98.16 FRF Partners IV LP United States Partnership Indirect group interest 99.34 99.34 FTSE Australia Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 FTSE Beijing Consulting Limited China Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 FTSE Japan Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 FTSE Americas, Inc United States Indirect group interest 100 100 FTSE China Index Ltd Hong Kong Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 FTSE International France Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 FTSE International Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 FTSE International India Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 FTSE International Italy Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 FTSE International MEA Ltd United Arab Emirates Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 FTSE International Brasil Representacoes LTDA Brazil Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 147 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued Country of incorporation Identity of each Direct or indirect holding Share LSEG plc class of share held ownership ultimate in the subsidiary % economic undertaking interest Name of subsidiary undertaking % FTSE International Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 FTSE Mexico Sociedad Mexico Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 1 FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Markets Inc Canada Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 73.94 1 FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Markets Limited UK Ordinary A Indirect group interest 100 72.74 Ordinary B 11.03 1.2 Gatelab Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 67 Gatelab Srl Italy Ordinary Indirect group interest 67 67 globeSettle SA Luxembourg Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Innovate Mortgages Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Innovative Trading Systems UK Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Innovative Trading Systems, LLC Russian Federation Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 International Commodities Clearing House Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 LCH Pensions Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 LCH.
Clearnet Luxembourg S. A. R. L Luxembourg Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 LCH.
Clearnet Funding LP UK Capital Contribution Indirect group interest 100 57.8 LCH.
Clearnet GP Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited UK Ordinary Non Voting Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Ordinary Voting 57.8 LCH.
Clearnet Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 LCH.
Clearnet LLC United States Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 LCH.
Clearnet PLP Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 LCH.
Clearnet Service Company Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 London Stock Exchange C Limited UK Ordinary Direct 100 100 London Stock Exchange Group Services Limited UK Ordinary Direct 100 100 London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy Limited UK Ordinary Direct 100 100 London Stock Exchange Group Holdings R Limited UK Ordinary Direct 100 100 London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italia S. p. A Italy Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Limited UK Ordinary Direct 100 100 London Stock Exchange Plc UK Ordinary Direct 100 100 London Stock Exchange Reg Holdings Limited UK Ordinary Direct 100 100 London Stock Exchange Connectivity Solutions LP UK Partnership Indirect group interest 100 100 LSEG Business Services Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 LSEG Derivatives Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 LSEG Employment Services Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 LSEG Information Services US, Inc. United States Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 LSEG LuxCo 1 S. a. r. l Luxembourg Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 LSEG LuxCo 2 S. a. r. l Luxembourg Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 LSEG Pension Trustees Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 LSEG Post Trade Services Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 LSEG US Holdco, Inc. United States Common Direct 100 100 LSEGH Luxembourg Limited UK Ordinary Direct 100 100 LSEGH Inc. United States Indirect group interest 100 100 LSEM LLC Mongolia Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 March fide TitreS France MTS France France Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 60.36 MillenniumIT US Inc United States Indirect group interest 100 100 Millennium Information Technologies India Private Limited India Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Millennium Information Technologies Limited Sri Lanka Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Millennium It Software Limited Sri Lanka Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Millennium Information Technologies Limited UK Branch UK N A Indirect group interest 100 100 Millennium It Software Limited UK Branch UK N A Indirect group interest 100 100 Millennium Software Canada Inc Canada Indirect group interest 100 100 MillenniumIT Software Limited Hong Kong Branch Hong Kong N A Indirect group interest 100 100 MillenniumIT Software Limited Singapore Branch Singapore N A Indirect group interest 100 100 Monte Titoli SpA Italy Ordinary Indirect group interest 98.87 98.86 MTS Markets International Inc. United States Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 60.36 MTS SpA Italy Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 60.36 Mtsnext Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 73.94 On-Line Partnership Group Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Pension Benchmark Corporation United States Indirect group interest 100 100 Repoclear Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Reponet Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Russell Capital Inc. United States Common Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Employee Benefits Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 148 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Country of incorporation Identity of each Direct or indirect holding Share LSEG plc class of share held ownership ultimate in the subsidiary % economic undertaking interest Name of subsidiary undertaking % Russell Financial Services India Private Ltd India Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Financial Services, Inc. United States Common Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Financial Solutions Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Fund Services Company United States Common Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Implementation Services Inc. United States Common Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Implementation Services Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Institutional Funds Management, LLC United States Membership Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Insurance Agency, Inc. United States Common Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell International Services Company Inc. United States Common Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Investment Advisors Shanghai Co. Ltd China Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Investment Group Japan Co. Ltd Japan Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Investment Group Limited New Zealand Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Investment Group Private Limited Singapore Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Investment Group Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Investment Management Ltd Australia Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Investment Management Company US Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Investment Tujajamun Chusik Hoesa Korea, Republic of Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Investments Canada Limited Canada Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Investments Cayman Ltd Cayman Islands Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Investments Delaware Inc. United States Common Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Investments France SAS France Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Investments Group Inc United States Common Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Investments Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Investments Ireland Ltd. Ireland Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Investments Japan Co. Ltd Japan Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Investments Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Investments South Africa Limited South Africa Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Multi Asset Conservative Strategy Fund UK Indirect group interest 54 59 Russell Multi Asset Growth Fund UK Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Systems Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Real Estate Advisors Inc. United States Common Indirect group interest 100 100 Russell Trust Company United States Common Indirect group interest 100 100 SSC Global Business Services Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Stock Exchange Holdings Limited The UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Swapclear Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 The London Clearing House Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 The London Produce Clearing House Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 The London Stock Exchange Retirement Plan Trustee Company Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 The On-Line Partnership Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 The Whitechurch Network Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Total Risk Management Pty Limited Australia Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Turquoise Global Holdings Limited UK Ordinary A Indirect group interest 100 51.36 Turquoise Trading Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 51.36 U. S. One, Inc United States Common Indirect group interest 100 100 UnaVista LEI Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Unavista Limited UK Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 1.
The absolute indirect group interest and direct holdings by the London Stock Exchange Group is 75.75% The Groups associate undertakings were: Country of incorporation Identity of each class of Direct or indirect holding Share ownership Group share held in the % held by the ultimate subsidiary undertaking Parent Company economic interest Associate name % GGEP Investments Bermuda.
Ltd Bermuda Common Indirect group interest 30 30 GGEP Investments LLC United States Common Indirect group interest 30 30 GGEP Management Bermuda Limited Bermuda Common Indirect group interest 30 30 GGEP Management LLC United States Common Indirect group interest 30 30 MTS Associated Markets S. A. Italy Ordinary A Indirect group interest 21.26 12.83 The accounting reference dates for all of the associates are 31 December.
