The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 35 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and annual report and the accounts in accordance with detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations the Directors Company law requires the Directors to prepare are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, financial statements for each financial year.
Under Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report that law, the Directors have elected to prepare the and Statement of Corporate Governance that comply financial statements in accordance with United with that law and those regulations.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Each of the Directors, whose names and functions United Kingdom Accounting Standards and are listed on pages 22 and 23 confirms that, to the applicable law.
Under Company law the Directors best of his her knowledge: must not approve the financial statements unless the financial statements, which have been they are satisfied that taken as a whole, the annual prepared in accordance with United Kingdom report and accounts are fair, balanced and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United understandable, provide the information necessary Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable for shareholders to assess the Companys law : and performance, business model and strategy and that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, the Company and of the total return or loss of the financial position and net return or loss of the Company for that period.
In order to provide these Company together with a description of the confirmations, and in preparing these financial principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
statements, the Directors are required to: The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply development and performance of the business and them consistently: position of the Company, together with a description of the principle risks and uncertainties that it faces.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The financial statements are published on the www.
co. uk website, which is maintained state whether applicable UK Accounting by the Manager.
The maintenance and integrity of Standards have been followed, subject to any the Companys website.
Legislation in the United material departures disclosed and explained in Kingdom governing the preparation and the financial statements: and dissemination of financial statements may differ from prepare the financial statements on a going legislation in other jurisdictions.
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in The Board confirms that it is satisfied that the annual business report and accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the and the Directors confirm that they have done so.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate strategy and business model of the Company.
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with For and on behalf of the Board reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Hamish Leslie Melville position of the Company and to enable them to Chairman ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for 27th March 2015 safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence
