66 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Shareholder Information continued Glossary of Terms and Definitions Return on Net Assets Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value NAV Total return on net asset value NAV per share, per share on a bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all If the share price of an investment trust is lower than dividends paid out by the Company were reinvested the NAV per share, the shares are said to be trading into the shares of the Company at the NAV per share at a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable trusts shares to trade at a discount than at a which have been declared but which are unpaid at the premium.
balance sheet date are deducted from the NAV per share when calculating the return on net assets.
Fair Value The fair value of the Companys debentures is Return to Shareholders calculated using a discounted cash flow technique Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to which applies the yield from a similarly dated gilt to mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends the debentures issued by the Company and adds to received were reinvested, without transaction costs, that a margin based on the 5 year average for the into the shares of the Company at the time the AA Barclays Sterling Corporate Bond spread.
For the 175 million debenture, the Company takes Benchmark Return the yield on 4.75% Treasury Gilt 07 12 2030.
For the Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market 3.85 million perpetual debenture, the Company value to mid-market value basis, assuming that all applies the yield on 3.50% War Loan.
dividends received were reinvested, without The margin applied on the 5 year average for the transaction costs, into the shares of the underlying AA Barclays Sterling Corporate Bond spread at companies at time the shares were quoted 31st January 2015 was 1.288%.
The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which Performance Attribution should not be taken as wholly representative of the Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded Companys investment universe.
The Companys performance relative to its benchmark.
investment strategy does not track this index and Performance Attribution Definitions: consequently, there may be some divergence Asset Allocation between the Companys performance and that of the Measures the impact of allocating assets differently benchmark.
to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios Ongoing Charges weighting in different countries, sectors or asset The Ongoing Charges represent the Companys types.
management fee and all other operating expenses excluding finance costs payable, expressed as a Stock Selection percentage of the average of the daily net assets Measures the effect of investing in securities to a during the year and is calculated in accordance with greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the guidance issued by the Association of Investment benchmark, or of investing in securities which are Companies.
not included in the benchmark.
Cost of Gearing Effect Gearing Net Cash Measures the impact on relative performance arising Gearing represents the excess amount above from the cost of borrowings.
shareholders funds of total assets expressed as a percentage of the shareholders funds.
Total assets Cash Effect include total investments and net current Measures the impact on relative performance arising assets liabilities less cash cash equivalents and from holding cash balances.
excluding bank loans of less than one year.
If the amount calculated is negative, this is shown as a net cash position.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 67 Effect of Management Fee Other Expenses Leverage The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund of total assets, and therefore has a negative effect on Managers Directive AIFMD, leverage is any method relative performance.
which increases the Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives.
It is Interest Expense cost of debenture expressed as a ratio between the Companys The payment of interest has a negative effect on exposure and its net asset value and is calculated on relative performance.
a gross and a commitment method, in accordance with the AIFMD.
Under the gross method, exposure Repurchase of shares for cancellation represents the sum of the Companys positions Measures the effect on relative performance of without taking into account any hedging and netting repurchasing and cancelling the Companys own arrangements.
Under the commitment method, shares at a price which is less than the net asset exposure is calculated after certain hedging and value per share.
netting positions are offset against each other.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIMFD The Companys maximum and actual leverage see Glossary of Terms and Definitions on page 66 levels at 31st January 2015 are shown below: Gross Commitment Leverage exposure method method Maximum limit 200% 200% Actual 121% 121% Financial Conduct Authority In association with: Beware of share fraud Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
Report a scam How to avoid share fraud 1 Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA 6 Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with not have contact details on the Register or you FCA using the share fraud reporting form at an offer to buy or sell shares.
are told they are out of date.
uk scams, where you can find out more about investment scams.
2 Do not get into a conversation, note the name 7 Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at of the person and firm contacting you and then www.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on end the call.
8 Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an Check the Financial Services Register from unauthorised firm you will not have access to the If you have already paid money to share fraudsters 3 www.
uk to see if the person and firm Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
4 9 Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an Think about getting independent financial and 5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct authorised firm, copying its website or giving professional advice before you hand over any you false contact details.
Authority about share fraud each year, with victims losing an average of 20,000 10 5 Use the firms contact details listed on the Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it Register if you want to call it back.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 69 Information about the Company Financial Calendar Financial year end 31st January Final results announced March April Half year end 31st July Half year results announced September Dividends on ordinary shares paid to shareholders 1st August, 1st November, 1st February, 1st May Interest on 4.25% perpetual debenture stock paid 1st June, 1st December Interest on 6.125% debenture paid 25th February, 25th August Annual General Meeting May or nearest following business day.
History Companys Registered Office The Mercantile Investment & General Trust Company Limited was 60 Victoria Embankment formed in December 1884 with issued capital of 500,000.
The London EC4Y 0JP Company merged with three other investment trusts in 1960 under Telephone number: 020 7742 4000 a scheme of arrangement and changed its name to The Mercantile Please contact Juliet Dearlove for company secretarial and Investment Trust Limited.
In 1982 the Company became The Fleming administrative matters.
JPMorgan has been the Companys manager and secretary since its appointment in 1976.
In April 2008, Depositary the Company adopted its present name, The Mercantile Investment BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited Trust plc.
BNY Mellon Centre 160 Queen Victoria Street A publication entitled The Mercantile Investment Trust plc 125 years is London EC4V 4LA available from the Company Secretary.
The Depositary employs JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as the Companys Company Numbers custodian.
Company Registration number: 20537 London Stock Exchange number: 0579403 Registrars ISIN: GB0005794036 Equiniti Limited Bloomberg ticker: MRC LN Reference 1101 Aspect House Market Information Spencer Way The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Lancing market price is shown daily in the Financial Times, The Guardian, The West Sussex BN99 6DA Times, The Daily Telegraph, The Scotsman and on the JPMorgan internet Telephone number: 0871 384 2329 site at www.
co. uk, where the share price is updated every Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines open fifteen minutes during trading hours.
The overseas helpline number Website is 44 0 121 415 7047. www.
co. uk Notifications of changes of address and enquiries regarding share certificates or dividend cheques should be made in writing to the Share Transactions Registrar quoting reference 1101.
Registered shareholders can obtain The Companys shares may be dealt in directly through a stockbroker further details on their holdings on the internet by visiting or professional adviser acting on an investors behalf.
be purchased and held through the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, J. P. Morgan ISA and J. P. Morgan SIPP.
These products are all available Independent Auditors on the online wealth manager service, J. P. Morgan WealthManager  LLP available at www.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 7 More London Riverside Dividend Re-investment Plan London SE1 2RT The Company operates a dividend re-investment plan.
For further information please contact the Registrars details below.
Brokers Cenkos Securities plc Manager and Secretary 6, 7, 8 Tokenhouse Yard JPMorgan Funds Limited London EC2R 7AS Winterflood Securities Limited The Atrium Building Cannon Bridge House London EC4R 2GA Savings Product Administrators For queries on the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, J. P. Morgan ISA and J. P. Morgan SIPP, see contact details on the back cover of this report.
