Shareholder Information Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive In accordance with the AIFM Directive, information in relation to The Companys maximum and actual leverage levels see Glossary the Companys leverage and the remuneration of the Companys of Terms below at 30 April 2015 are as follows: AIFM, Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, is required to be made available Leverage to investors.
In accordance with the Directive, the AIFM remuneration policy is available from Baillie Gifford & Co Limited Gross method Commitment method on request see contact details on the back cover and the Maximum limit 2.50:1 2.00:1 numerical remuneration disclosures in respect of the AIFMs first Actual 1.12:1 1.12:1 relevant reporting period year ended 31 March 2016 will be made available in due course.
Glossary of Terms Total Assets Gearing Total assets less current liabilities, before deduction of all borrowings.
At its simplest, gearing is borrowing.
Just like any other public company, an investment trust can borrow money to invest in Net Asset Value additional investments for its portfolio.
The effect of the borrowing Net Asset Value NAV is the value of total assets less liabilities on the shareholders assets is called gearing.
If the Companys including borrowings.
The NAV per share is calculated by assets grow, the shareholders assets grow proportionately more dividing this amount by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
because the debt remains the same.
But if the value of the Companys assets falls, the situation is reversed.
Gearing can Net Asset Value at Fair therefore enhance performance in rising markets but can Borrowings are valued at an estimate of their market worth.
adversely impact performance in falling markets.
The level of gearing can be adjusted through the use of derivatives which Net Asset Value at Par affect the sensitivity of the value of the portfolio to changes in the Borrowings are valued at their nominal par value.
Discount Premium Potential gearing is the Companys borrowings expressed as a As stockmarkets and share prices vary, an investment trusts percentage of shareholders funds.
share price is rarely the same as its NAV.
When the share price is Gearing is the Companys borrowings at par less cash and cash lower than the NAV per share it is said to be trading at a discount.
equivalents expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
The size of the discount is calculated by subtracting the share price from the NAV per share and is usually expressed as a Effective gearing, as defined by the Board and Managers of percentage of the NAV per share.
If the share price is higher than Monks, is the Companys borrowings at par less cash and cash the NAV per share, this situation is called a premium.
equivalents and investment grade bonds maturing within one year, as adjusted to take into account the exposure effect of derivative Total Return holdings, expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
The total return is the return to shareholders after reinvesting the Leverage net dividend on the date that the share price goes xd.
For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Ongoing Charges AIFM Directive, leverage is any method which increases the The total expenses excluding borrowing costs incurred by the Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the Company as a percentage of the average net asset value with use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a ratio between the debt at fair value.
Companys exposure and its net asset value and can be calculated on a gross and a commitment method.
Under the Active Share gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys Active share, a measure of how actively a portfolio is managed, is positions after the deduction of sterling cash balances, without the percentage of the portfolio that differs from its comparative taking into account any hedging and netting arrangements.
It is calculated by deducting from 100 the percentage of the commitment method, exposure is calculated without the the portfolio that overlaps with the comparative index.
An active deduction of sterling cash balances and after certain hedging and share of 100 indicates no overlap with the index and an active netting positions are offset against each other.
share of zero indicates a portfolio that tracks the index.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 55 Directors Registered Office Managers and Secretaries Chairman: Computershare Investor Services PLC JGD Ferguson Baillie Gifford & Co Limited Moor House Calton Square 120 London Wall CC Ferguson 1 Greenside Row London EM Harley Edinburgh EC2Y 5ET DCP McDougall EH1 3AN KS Sternberg Tel: 0131 275 2000 JJ Tigue www.
com Registrar Independent Auditors Depositary Computershare  LLP BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary Investor Services PLC UK Limited Chartered Accountants and The Pavilions Statutory Auditors BNY Mellon Centre Bridgwater Road Atria One 160 Queen Victoria Street Bristol 144 Morrison Street London BS99 6ZZ Edinburgh EC4V 4LA Tel: 0870 707 1170 EH3 8EX Brokers Company Details Further Information Canaccord Genuity Limited www.
co. uk Client Relations Team 88 Wood Street Company Registration Baillie Gifford Savings No.
00236964 Management Limited London ISIN GB0030517261 Calton Square EC2V 7QR Sedol 3051726 1 Greenside Row Ticker MNKS Edinburgh EH1 3AN Tel: 0800 917 2112 Email: trustenquiries@bailliegifford.
