Shareholder Information Communicating with Shareholders Trust Magazine Literature in Alternative Formats Trust is the Baillie Gifford investment trust magazine which is It is possible to provide copies of the literature in alternative published three times a year.
It provides an insight to our formats, such as large print or on audio tape.
Please contact the investment approach by including interviews with our fund Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team for more information.
managers, as well as containing investment trust news, Client Relations Team Contact Details investment features and articles about the trusts managed by You can contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team by Baillie Gifford, including Monks.
Trust plays an important role in telephone, email, fax or post: helping to explain our products so that readers can really understand them.
For a copy of Trust, please contact the Baillie Telephone: 0800 917 2112 Gifford Client Relations Team see contact details opposite.
Your call may be recorded for training or monitoring purposes.
com An online version of Trust can be found at Website: www.
Fax: 0131 275 3955 Client Relations Team Monks on the Web Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited Up-to-date information about Monks can be found on the Calton Square Companys page of the Managers website at 1 Greenside Row www.
Edinburgh EH1 3AN In the Investment Trust section you will find full monthly details on Monks, including recent portfolio information and performance figures.
Please note that Baillie Gifford is not permitted to give financial advice.
If you would like advice or if you have any Suggestions and Questions questions about the suitability of any of these plans for Any suggestions on how communications with shareholders can you, please ask an authorised intermediary.
Please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team see contact details opposite and give them your suggestions.
They will also be very happy to answer questions that you may have, either about Monks or the plans described on page 53.
