Financial S Financial St tatements atements Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Report and the financial statements in accordance with responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors applicable law and regulations.
Remuneration Report and Statement of Corporate Governance that comply with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the The financial statements are published on murray-intl.
co. uk Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards integrity of the corporate and financial information included and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied the preparation and dissemination of financial statements that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Each of the Directors confirms that to the best of his or her Directors are required to: knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the consistently: applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of make judgments and accounting estimates that are the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of reasonable and prudent: and, the Company: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed review of the development and performance of the and explained in the financial statements.
business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate Company faces: and accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain that in the opinion of the Board, the Annual Report and the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable Financial Statements taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company understandable and it provides the information necessary and enable them to ensure that the financial statements to assess the Companys performance, business model and comply with the Companies Act 2006.
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and For Murray International Trust PLC detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Kevin Carter Chairman 11 March 2016 Murray International Trust PLC 45
