Corporate information Investor Information AIFMD Keeping You Informed The Company has appointed Aberdeen Fund Managers For internet users, detailed data on the Company, including Limited as its alternative investment fund manager and BNY price, performance information and a monthly fact sheet is Mellon as its depositary under the AIFMD.
Details of the available from the Trusts website murray-intl.
co. uk and the leverage and risk policies which the Company is required to TrustNet website trustnet.
Alternatively you can call have in place under AIFMD are published in the Companys 0500 00 00 40 free when dialling from a UK landline for PIDD which can be found on the website murray-intl.
The periodic disclosures required to be made by the AIFM under the AIFMD are set out on page 81.
If you have any questions about your Company, the Manager or performance, please telephone the AAM Customer Benchmark Services Department direct private investors on 0500 00 00 40.
Alternatively, internet users may email AAM at The Companys benchmark is a composite index comprising inv.
com or write to Aberdeen 40% of the FTSE World UK Index and 60% of the FTSE World Investment Trusts, PO Box 11020, Chelmsford, Essex CM99 ex-UK Index.
Website Shareholder Enquiries Further information on the Company can be found on its In the event of queries regarding their holdings of shares, lost own dedicated website: murray-intl.
This allows web certificates dividend payments, registered details, etc users to access information on the Companys share price shareholders holding their shares in the Company directly performance, capital structure, stock exchange should contact the registrars, Capita Asset Services at The announcements and monthly reports.
Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU or Tel: 0371 664 0300 Lines are open 8.30a.
m. to 5.30 p. m. Investor Warning London Time Monday to Friday.
Calls may be recorded and The Board has been made aware by Aberdeen that some monitored randomly for security and training purposes.
investors have received telephone calls from people purporting to work for Aberdeen, or third parties, who have Changes of address must be notified to the registrars in offered to buy their investment trust shares.
Any general enquiries about the Company should be scams which attempt to gain personal information with directed to the Company Secretary, Murray International which to commit identity fraud or could be boiler room Trust PLC, 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2BY or by scams where a payment from an investor is required to emailing investment.
secretarial@aberdeenrelease the supposed payment for their shares.
These callers do not work for Aberdeen and any third party Direct making such offers has no link with Aberdeen.
Aberdeen Investors can buy and sell shares in the Company directly never makes these types of offers and does not cold-call through a stockbroker or indirectly through a lawyer, investors in this way.
If investors have any doubt over the accountant or other professional adviser.
Alternatively, for veracity of a caller, they should not offer any personal retail clients, shares can be bought directly through information, end the call and contact Aberdeens investor Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children, Aberdeens services centre using the details provided below.
Investment Trust Share Plan and Investment Trust ISA.
Dividend Tax Allowance Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children From April 2016 dividend tax credits will be replaced by an Aberdeen runs an Investment Plan for Children the annual 5,000 tax-free allowance on dividend income across Childrens Plan which covers a number of investment an individuals entire share portfolio.
Above this amount, companies under its management including the Company.
individuals will pay tax on their dividend income at a rate Anyone can invest in the Childrens Plan, including parents, dependent on their income tax bracket and personal grandparents and family friends subject to the eligibility circumstances.
The Company will continue to provide criteria as stated within the terms and conditions.
All registered shareholders with a confirmation of dividends paid investments are free of dealing charges on the initial by the Company and this should be included with any other purchase of shares, although investors will suffer the biddividend income received when calculating and reporting offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be a significant total dividend income received to HMRC.
Lump sum investments start at 150 per trust, while shareholders responsibility to include all dividend income regular savers may invest from 30 per month.
Investors when calculating any tax liability.
simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on all 78 Annual Report 2015 purchases.
There is no restriction Literature Request Service on how long an investor need invest in the Childrens Plan, For literature and application forms for the Company and the and regular savers can stop or suspend participation by Aberdeen Groups investment trust products, please contact: instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In common with other schemes of this type, all investments are held in Telephone: 0500 00 40 00 nominee accounts.
Investors have full voting and other rights Email: aam@lit-request.
For information on the Investment Plan for Children, Share Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan Plan, ISA or ISA Transfer please contact: AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares in the Company can be purchased.
There are no dealing charges Aberdeen Investment Trust Administration on the initial purchase of shares, although investors will PO Box 11020 suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be Chelmsford a significant amount.
Lump sum investments start at 250, Essex, CM99 2DB while regular savers may invest from 100 per month.
Telephone: 0500 00 00 40 Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently free when dialling from a UK landline 0.5%.
There is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in a Plan, and regular savers Terms and conditions for the AAM managed savings products can stop or suspend participation by instructing AAM in can also be found under the literature section of writing at any time.
In common with other schemes of this invtrusts.
co. uk type, all investments are held in nominee accounts.
Investors have full voting and other rights of share ownership.
Online Dealing details Investor information Stocks and Shares ISA There are a number of other ways in which you can buy and An investment of up to 15,240 can be made in the tax year hold shares in this investment company.
Online dealing The annual ISA administration charge is 24 VAT, There are a number of online dealing platforms for private calculated annually and applied on 31 March or the last investors that offer share dealing, ISAs and other means to business day in March and collected soon thereafter either invest in the company.
Real-time execution-only by direct debit or, if there is no valid direct debit mandate in stockbroking services allow you to trade online, manage your place, from the available cash in the Plan prior to the portfolio and buy UK listed shares.
These sites do not give distribution or reinvestment of any income, or, where there is advice.
Some comparison websites also look at dealing rates insufficient cash in the Plan, from the sale of investments and terms.
Some well-known online providers, which can be held in the Plan.
Investors have full voting and other rights of found through internet search engines, include: share ownership.
Under current legislation, investments in ISAs can grow free of capital gains tax.
AJ Bell You Invest Alliance Trust Savings ISA Transfer Barclays Stockbrokers You can choose to transfer previous tax year investments to Charles Stanley Direct us which can be invested in the Company while retaining Halifax Share Dealing your ISA wrapper.
The minimum lump sum for an ISA Hargreave Hale transfer is 1,000 and is subject to a minimum per trust of Idealing 250.
Selftrade The Share Centre Pre-investment Disclosure Document PIDD Stocktrade The AIFMD requires Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited, as the Hargreaves Lansdown alternative investment fund manager of Murray International TD Direct Trust PLC, to make available to investors certain information Interactive Investor prior to such investors investment in the Company.
The Companys PIDD is available for viewing at Discretionary Private Client Stockbrokers If you have a large sum to invest, you may wish to contact a www.
co. uk en  literature discretionary private client stockbroker.
They can manage your entire portfolio of shares and will advise you on your Murray International Trust PLC 79 Corporate information Investor Information continued investments.
To find a private client stockbroker visit the Note Wealth Management Association at thewma.
co. uk Please remember that past performance is not a guide to the future.
Stock market and currency movements may Independent Financial Advisers cause the value of shares and the income from them to fall To find an adviser who recommends on investment trusts, as well as rise and investors may not get back the amount visit unbiased.
co. uk they originally invested.
Regulation of Stockbrokers As with all equity investments, the value of investment Before approaching a stockbroker, always check that they are trusts purchased will immediately be reduced by the regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority: difference between the buying and selling prices of the Tel: 0800 111 6768 or at www.
uk firms systemsshares, the market makers spread.
reporting register search Email: register@fca.
uk Investors should further bear in mind that the value of any tax relief will depend on the individual circumstances of Suitable for Retail NMPI Status the investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the The Companys securities are intended for investors primarily tax treatment of ISAs may be changed by future in the UK including retail investors, professional-advised legislation.
private clients and institutional investors who are wanting to benefit from the growth prospects of global companies by The information on pages 78 to 80 has been approved for the investment in a relatively risk averse investment trust and purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets who understand and are willing to accept the risks of Act 2000 as amended by the Financial Services Act 2012 by exposure to equities.
Investors should consider consulting a Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited which is authorised and financial adviser who specialises in advising on the regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority acquisition of shares and other securities before acquiring shares.
Investors should be capable of evaluating the risks and merits of such an investment and should have sufficient resources to bear any loss that may result.
The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its securities can be recommended by a financial adviser to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA rules in relation to nonmainstream pooled investments NMPIs and intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
The Companys shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
