FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 ANNUAL REPORT NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 4 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Directors The Directors are related parties and are remunerated for their services at a fee of 35,000 per annum 45,000 for the Chairman.
In addition, the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee receives an additional 5,000 for his services in this role.
The Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee receive an additional 2,500 each per annum.
The Directors fee for the two Luxembourg subsidiaries, whose Directors are unrelated to the Guernsey Board members, amounts to 14,700 per annum per subsidiary.
Of these, $396 were prepaid at the year end.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Guernsey Directors fees and travel expenses amounted to $273,850 31 December 2014: $226,142.
Of these, $2,074 were prepaid at the year end 31 December 2014: $46,311 were unpaid.
As at 31 December 2015, Mr Battey, Mrs Platts, Mr Dorey and Mr Frewen had 30,077, 10,069, 20,000 and 9,895 Sterling Ordinary Shares in the Company respectively 31 December 2014: Mr Battey, Mrs Platts and Mr Frewen 30,077, 10,069 and 9,895 Sterling Ordinary Shares in the Company respectively.
Neuberger Berman Europe Limited and Neuberger Berman Investment Advisers LLC formerly Neuberger Berman Fixed Income LLC The contracts with Neuberger Berman Europe Limited and Neuberger Berman Investment Advisers LLC are classified as related party transactions.
Other than fees payable in the ordinary course of business and the additional fees disclosed in Note 3, there have been no material transactions with related parties, which have affected the financial position or performance of the Company in the financial period.
NOTE 5 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS A financial instrument is defined by ASC 825, Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments, as cash, evidence of an ownership interest in an entity, or a contract that creates a contractual obligation or right to deliver to or receive cash or another financial instrument from a second entity on potentially favourable terms.
Fair value estimates are made at a discrete point in time, based on relevant market data, information about the financial instruments, and other factors.
Fair value was determined using available market information and appropriate valuation methodologies.
Estimates of fair value of financial instruments without quoted market prices are subjective in nature and involve various assumptions and estimates that are matters of judgment.
Accordingly, fair values are not necessarily indicative of the amounts realised on disposition of financial instruments.
The use of different market assumptions and or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on estimated fair value amounts.
The following estimates and assumptions were used at 31 December 2015 to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments: - Valuation of financial investments The loans and bonds are valued at bid price.
The Investment Manager believes that bid price is the best estimate of fair value and is in line with the valuation policy adopted by the Company.
- Cash and cash equivalents The carrying value is a reasonable estimate of fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
- Receivables for investments sold The carrying value reasonably approximates fair value as they reflect the value at which investments are sold to a willing buyer and settlement period on their balances is short term.
- Interest receivables The carrying value reasonably approximates fair value.
- Other receivables and prepayments The carrying value reasonably approximates fair value.
62 NEUBERGER BERMAN NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 5 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED - Derivatives The Company estimates fair values of derivatives based on the latest available forward exchange rates.
- Payables for investments purchased The carrying value reasonably approximates fair value as they reflect the value at which investments are purchased from a willing seller and settlement period on their balances is short term.
- Payables to the Investment Manager and affiliates The carrying value reasonably approximates fair value.
- Accrued expenses and other liabilities The carrying value reasonably approximates fair value.
A fair value hierarchy that prioritises the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value is established under FASB ASC Topic 820.
The objective of a fair value measurement is to determine the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date an exit price.
Accordingly, the fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to valuations based upon unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 and the lowest priority to valuations based upon unobservable inputs that are significant to the valuation Level 3.
The levels of the fair value hierarchy under FASB ASC Topic 820-10-35-39 to 55 are as follows: The guidance establishes three levels of the fair value hierarchy as follows: Level 1: price quotations in active markets exchanges for identical securities: Level 2: other observable inputs including but not limited to: quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the assets or liabilities such as interest rates, yield curves, volatilities, prepayment speeds, loss severities, credit risks and default rates or other market-corroborated inputs : and Level 3: unobservable inputs based on the best information available in the circumstance, to the extent observable inputs are not available including the Companys own assumption used in determining the fair value of investments.
The Company has adopted the authoritative guidance contained in FASB ASC 820-10, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, for estimating the fair value of the financial instruments that have calculated Net Asset Value per share in accordance with FASB ASC 946-10.
The inputs or methodology used for valuing securities are not necessarily an indication of the risk associated with investing in those securities.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2015 63 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 ANNUAL REPORT NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 5 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED The following table details the Companys financial instruments that were accounted for at fair value as at 31 December 2015.
