NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 5 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED The Derivatives assets and liabilities are offset in accordance with the guidance in sections 210-20-45 and 815-10-45 to determine the net amounts presented in the Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities.
All derivative trades have an enforceable master netting agreement so the net amount based on this is the same as the net amount disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities.
As at 31 December 2015, there were two counterparties for the Forwards 31 December 2014: two.
The following table presents the impact of derivative instruments on the Consolidated Statement of Operations in conformity with US GAAP.
For the year ended For the year ended Primary underlying risk 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 $ $ Net realised loss gain on derivatives 102,456,812 13,539,314 Net change in unrealised Appreciation depreciation on derivatives 18,342,698 98,935,336 Total 84,114,114 85,396,022 Primary underlying risks credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk associated with the derivatives are explained in Note 6.
There is no collateral for forward contracts.
The Company presents the gain or loss on derivatives in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
The Company uses independent third party vendors to price its portfolio.
As part of its valuation process, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager evaluates the number of broker quotes that combine to make up the valuation provided by these vendors and if it believes that the number of broker quotes is not sufficient to ensure a Level 2 price it designates those positions Level 3.
As at 31 December 2015 the Alternative Investment Fund Manager designated 10 of its floating rate senior secured loans at Level 3.
NOTE 6 RISKS The Company is subject to various risks, including, but not limited to, market risk, foreign exchange risk, credit risk, geographic concentration risk and liquidity risk.
The Investment Manager attempts to monitor and manage these risks on an ongoing basis.
Market Risk and Price Risk Market risk is the potential for changes in the value of investments.
Categories of market risk include, but are not limited to interest rate, foreign exchange and price risk.
Interest rate risk primarily results from exposures to changes in the level, slope and curvature of the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates and credit spreads.
Investments in senior loans are subject to interest rate risk.
Price risk is the risk that the price of the security will fall.
The Investment Manager manages the exposure to price risk by diversifying the portfolio.
Foreign Exchange Risk Foreign exchange risk arises from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to Sterling and Euro investments and share issue proceeds.
The Company makes use of hedging techniques, as part of its risk management strategy, including but not limited to the use of forward exchange contracts to mitigate its exposure to this risk.
These instruments involve market risk, credit risk, or both kinds of risks.
Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from movement in currency and securities values and interest rates.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2015 65 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 ANNUAL REPORT NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 6 RISKS CONTINUED Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of losses due to the failure of counterparty to perform according to the terms of a contract.
Since the Company does not clear all of its own securities transactions, it has established accounts with other financial institutions for this purpose.
This can, and often does, result in a concentration of credit risk with one or more of these institutions.
Such risk, however, is partially mitigated by the obligation of certain of these financial institutions to comply with rules and regulations governing financial institutions in countries where they conduct their business activities.
The Company may invest in a range of bank debt investments and corporate and other bonds.
Until such investments are sold or are paid in full at maturity, the Company is exposed to credit risk relating to whether the issuer will meet its obligations when the securities come due.
The cash and other liquid securities held can subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk.
The Investment Manager attempts to mitigate the credit risk that exists with cash deposits and other liquid securities by regularly monitoring the credit ratings of such financial institutions.
These rules and regulations generally require maintenance of minimum net capital and may also require segregation of customers funds and financial instruments from the holdings of the financial institutions themselves.
The Company actively reviews and attempts to manage exposures to various financial institutions in an attempt to mitigate these risks.
Geographic Concentration Risk The Company may invest a relatively large percentage of its assets in issuers located in a single country, a small number of countries, or a particular geographic region.
As a result, the Companys performance may be closely aligned with the market, currency or economic, political or regulatory conditions and developments in those countries or that region, and could be more volatile than the performance of more geographically diversified investments.
Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its obligations as and when these fall due.
Liquidity risk is managed by the Investment Manager to ensure that the Company maintains sufficient working capital in cash or near cash form so as to be able to meet the Companys ongoing requirements as they fall due.
Participation Commitments With respect to the senior loans the Company may: 1 invest in assignments: 2 act as a participant in primary lending syndicates: or 3 invest in participations.
If a Company purchases a participation of a senior loan interest, the Company would typically enter into a contractual agreement with the lender or other third party selling the participation, rather than directly with the borrower.
As such, the Company not only assumes the credit risk of the borrower, but also that of the selling participant or other persons inter positioned between the Company and the borrower.
As of 31 December 2015, there were no such outstanding participation commitments in the Company.
Other Risks Legal, tax and regulatory changes could occur during the term of the Company that may adversely affect the Company.
The regulatory environment for alternative investment companies is evolving, and changes in the regulation of investment companies may adversely affect the value of investments held by the Company or the ability of the Company to pursue its trading strategies.
The effect of any future regulatory change on the Company could be substantial and adverse.
