Governance 112 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Five-year history of Board evaluation at Old Mutual plc 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Agreed effectiveness improvements and Board development facilitated both internally and externally Led by Helen Pitcher of Detailed questionnaire Board profile Board Governance Board profile updated IDDAS, and including supplemented updated and discussion Review internally led leavers and joiners a Governance and by 1:1 interviews.
with IDDAS on the with external input.
and reviewed with Compliance Report 2012 review findings.
and Board IDDAS compared the Board profile Dynamics Review.
findings from this to the Board Risk Committee updated and reviewed Detailed questionnaire, 2011 outputs and effectiveness review.
supplemented by 1:1 Board profile reviewed commented on where interviews with each and shared.
progress had been Board culture survey.
reviewed and made recommendations for Short questionnaire improvements on Board focused on progress Key information packs.
against the action plan and Board values.
External Supplemented by 1:1 Full Board effectiveness facilitation interviews.
review led by Helen Internal Pitcher of Advanced facilitation Board Excellence.
Joint facilitation The Company also operates a Responsible Board Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Business Committee, which monitors Mike Arnold Chairman since 2010 For details of the Remuneration Committee, progress against the Groups commitment Zoe Cruz since 2014 see the Directors Remuneration Report.
to responsible business principles and Roger Marshall since 2010 Other committees addresses matters that could impact on the Trevor Manuel since January 2016 The Board establishes special-purpose Groups reputation or licence to operate.
Vassi Naidoo since May 2015 committees, as required, to deal with Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita since 2013 Reports from the Boards particular strategic projects or other Other member of the committee during matters.
In doing so, it specifies a remit, standing committees part of the year: quorum and appropriate mix of executive The following reports on the activities of Reuel Khoza 2010 to May 2015 the Group Audit, Board Risk and and non-executive participation.
Secretary to the committee: Nomination and Governance Committees Colin Campbell since 2012 A number of standing executive committees during 2015 have been submitted by their help the Group Chief Executive with the respective Chairmen.
The activities of the Nomination and Governance day-to-day management of the Group.
Remuneration Committee are described in Committee These include the Group Executive the Directors Remuneration Report later Patrick OSullivan Chairman since 2010 Committee mentioned earlier in this in this document.
Alan Gillespie since 2010 report, the Group Executive Risk Committee Danuta Gray since 2013 and the Group Capital Management Vassi Naidoo since May 2015 Committee, whose role is, among other Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita since 2013 things, to agree capital allocations within Other member of the committee during certain limits or make recommendations part of the year: to the Board regarding any allocations Reuel Khoza 2010 to May 2015 beyond such limits and to approve the Secretary to the committee: Groups capital plan as part of the annual Martin Murray since 1999 business planning process.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance The Group Audit Committee the committee end of 2015 with the benefit of input from 113 met six times during 2015.
Two meetings the Group Chief Actuary and KPMG LLP.
REPORT FROM THE were held partly as joint sessions with In addition to our usual role in reviewing the GROUP AUDIT members of the Board Risk Committee to materials submitted to the Board in support COMMITTEE discuss matters of mutual interest, with of the going concern statement, we also this particular focus on the Groups cyberyear addressed for the first time the new security environment and the credit requirement for a longer-term viability provisioning methodologies applied by the statement and discussed the appropriate Groups South African businesses.
As far as duration of and wording for this for the credit provisioning methodologies are Board to approve.
concerned, the committee asked KPMG LLP to carry out a deep dive into Compared to the prior year, issues relating this at OMEM and the unsecured retail to tax provisioning reduced in significance.
book of Nedbank as part of its year-end A number of tax issues have been agreed audit.
Their report included a number of with the relevant tax authorities during the observations and recommendations which year and tax provisioning is no longer a the businesses will be implementing in 2016. key judgement area.
The committee assisted the Board in Set out below is a summary of areas of monitoring the Groups preparations for focus during the year, in addition to the Roger Marshall compliance with the new Solvency II regime committees usual oversight responsibilities, Chairman of the and considered the calculations and which are described in the table on methodologies used in the reporting of the page 115.
Group Audit Committee Groups Solvency II capital position at the Group Audit Committee How the matter was reviewed focus area Assumptions related to The Group Chief Actuary confirmed that There was a focus on persistency, expense policyholder liabilities appropriate valuation models had been and mortality assumptions proposed for the recognised by the Groups used to determine the value of policyholder South African long-term business and on insurance businesses liabilities.
This included the presentation of changes to explicit discretionary reserves.
The Group recognised insurance results from experience and assumption The committee was comfortable with the policyholder liabilities of validation reviews.
In areas where significant assumptions chosen.
7, 714 million at 31 December assumption changes were proposed, the 2015 2014: 10,519 million.
rationale for these changes was explained Estimation of these routinely to the committee.
involves assessment of risk exposures, expense allocations and business persistency.
Loan loss provisions The committee considered this area in detail, Local governance structures provide Loan loss provisioning requires particularly in light of the deterioration in assurance on the adequacy of loan loss the assessment of recoverable credit conditions and outlook that has taken provisioning and key matters arising were amounts, which requires place in South Africa since the end of Q3 2015. routinely highlighted in discussions with judgement in the estimation The committee reviewed information related local audit committee chairmen.
to detailed credit exposures including, in particular, unsecured lending in Nedbank At 31 December 2015, the and Old Mutual Finance and Nedbanks Groups total advances were large exposure watchlists.
The committee 31,724 million, with related was satisfied that adequate provisions were provisions of 759 million carried at 31 December 2015 under current 2014: 35,714 million and accounting standards.
Loans outstanding are principally from Nedbank.
Goodwill The committee reviewed the impairment This analysis supported the committee in Goodwill and intangible calculations on a preliminary basis in concluding that goodwill and intangible assets amounted to 3,276 million December 2015 and then reviewed updated assets were appropriately valued.
at 31 December 2015 2014: calculations at the end of February 2016, 2,763 million.
These balances reflecting the downturn in markets at the start principally relate to the Old of 2016.
The committee also looked at Mutual Wealth and OM Asset sensitivity analysis on the basis of declining Management businesses.
growth rates and increasing discount rates.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance 114 The outcome underpins our Alternative profit measure recommendation to reappoint KPMG LLP The Group makes a number of adjustments CORPOR ATE in relation to the audit for the year ending to IFRS profit to derive an Adjusted GOVERNANCE 31 December 2016 at this years AGM.
This is CONTINUED common practice among peers.
Some Non-audit services of these eliminate IFRS valuations that The Group operates within a clearly introduce distorting results, such as defined policy on the nature and amount of recognising gains or losses on own debt.
non-audit services that can be provided by Other adjustments seek to adjust the IFRS the Groups external auditor see Audit result in order to arrive at more normalised arrangements later in this report.
The profit by, for example, substituting a policy itself is formally reviewed annually.
Long-Term Investment Return for the Under the policy now in force, total fees for actual investment returns for the year, and non-audit services are limited to a adjusting the IFRS finance cost so that it maximum of 25% of the total fees for reflects certain costs of financing otherwise external audit services, although we have recognised in equity.
The committee reviews recently made some relaxations to the the appropriateness of the AOP measure relevant definitions of non-audit services in on an ongoing basis.
It also reviews the recognition of the additional work that Long-Term Investment Return rate annually.
KPMG LLP will be expected to do as part of The committee seeks to validate that the the Groups preparations for and adjustments made in determining AOP are compliance with the Solvency II regime in appropriate to the objective of presenting a the UK and SAM in South Africa.
measure of the long-term profitability of the business to users of the financial statements.
As Chairman of the committee, I am notified of expenditure on non-audit This year the committee considered again services monthly and for certain services the appropriateness of excluding from AOP I will be consulted for pre-approval.
the costs related to Old Mutual Wealths The committee reviews compliance with programme to develop new platform the non-audit services policy each quarter.
capabilities and to outsource its UK business administration.
This was pertinent The committee is satisfied that KPMG LLP in light of the considerable increase in the has been engaged by the Group in In 2015, projects anticipated cost.
The committee accordance with the requirements of this has concluded that the treatment policy during 2015. we introduced remains appropriate.
Internal Audit a new, externally Audit tender and rotation The committee pays close attention to A competitive tender for the Groups facilitated, quality Internal Audit reports and to the progress external audit was carried out in 2014. of management actions to address assurance process Further details of the tender process were weaknesses.
Internal Audit complies with included in last years report.
the recent Financial Services Internal Audit for Internal Audit Code and in particular is encouraged to The outcome of the process was that the carry out work in advance of or in parallel committee recommended that the Board with developments, rather than intervening should retain KPMG LLP as the Groups after the event.
external auditor from 2016 onwards, subject to the usual annual shareholder Internal Audits overall conclusion for 2015 approval of their re-appointment at was that it had not observed any forthcoming AGMs.
The Board duly unmitigated material issues that would accepted this recommendation.
Guidance indicate that the overall control environment from the European Parliament will require in the Group was unsatisfactory.
the rotation of the Groups external auditor In 2015, we introduced a new quality no later than 2023. assurance process for Internal Audit using External auditor effectiveness an external firm and reporting directly to the committee.
We consider that this During the year, we reviewed KPMG LLPs leading-edge approach will bring effectiveness as our current auditor increased independence to the process with support from Group Internal Audit and confirmed satisfaction with the quality and also enhance Internal Audits knowledge of best practice.
The review analysed critical competencies expected of our external The Groups Internal Audit Charter remains auditor and included feedback from unchanged from last year and is available key finance personnel from Group and on the Companys website.
subsidiary entities and audit committee members at subsidiaries and Group level.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
