Financials As set out in the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report and Accounts, the Board has considered the financial impacts of the 275 managed separation as part of the process of assessing the adequacy of the Groups capital and resources to support the desired outcome.
This assessment has supported the continued adoption of the going concern assumption when preparing these financial statements and the Boards statement in relation to the Groups viability.
At the current time, given the precise means by which the managed separation of the Group will be effected is yet to be determined the financial impacts cannot be evaluated in these financial statements.
K: Discontinued operations and disposal groups held for sale K1: Discontinued operations Income statement from discontinued operations m Y ear ended Y ear ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Loss before tax from discontinued operations trading activities expenses 35 Loss on disposal 21 19 Loss before tax from discontinued operations 21 54 Income tax credit 4 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 21 50 The loss on disposal for the year ended 31 December 2015 and year ended 31 December 2014 related to the settlement of litigation arising on the disposal of US Life in 2011, following a court ruling in favour of the plaintiff on the main matter in dispute.
These amounts were paid in cash during 2015.
The loss before tax from discontinued operations for the year ended 31 December 2014 related to the disposal of Nordic in 2012.
The Group continued to incur costs directly related to the sale of these businesses relating to the transition of IT and other services back to the Group.
Nordic previously provided these services to the wider Group.
K2: Assets and liabilities held for sale Assets held for sale of 123 million relate to Emerging Markets 84 million, Institutional Asset Management 35 million and Old Mutual Wealth 4 million.
Liabilities held for sale of 12 million relate to Institutional Asset Management.
Emerging Markets Emerging Markets has classified 84 million R1,923 million of investment properties as held for sale.
These transactions are expected to complete in the next 12 months.
The investment properties form part of the policyholder assets and therefore have no impact on profit or loss of the Group.
Institutional Asset Management On 8 February 2016, the Group announced that it has agreed to sell Rogge Global Partners PLC Rogge to Allianz Global Investors GmbH.
The transaction is expected to complete in the second quarter of 2016.
Due to the imminence of the disposal, total assets to the value of 35 million, including 20 million cash and cash equivalents and 10 million other assets, and total liabilities to the value of 12 million, have been classified as held for sale at the reporting date.
None of these amounts have been impaired in the financial statements.
Old Mutual Wealth Old Mutual Wealth has classified property, plant and equipment of 4 million as held for sale.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
