Strategic report 89 5. Credit risk and location of credit risk across the Group Risk mitigation and How it impacts Old Mutual 2015 and beyond management actions One of our largest risks to Group earnings Our credit risk remains within appetite.
Stress testing is carried out at Nedbank and is our exposure to banking credit risk from However, the high levels of personal Emerging Markets and, by extension, Group lending and other financing activities through indebtedness and pressure on consumers to understand exposure to credit events.
our ownership of Nedbank and to a lesser in South Africa remain a challenge, as does Nedbank has defined risk limits and early but growing extent within Emerging Markets.
the impact on corporate credit performance warning thresholds for credit loss ratios, from continuing weakness in commodity Nedbank is a universal bank offering which are continuously monitored and prices.
Short-term pressure on credit spreads diversified product lines, across secured remained within their target range throughout is increasing on state-owned enterprises and unsecured lending.
Nedbank also reviews the quality of such as Eskom.
However, the risk of credit portfolios to ensure impairment Our exposure through Nedbank is primarily default is low, given explicit South African provisions are adequate.
a risk to earnings and remittances, as government guarantees.
Nedbanks capital and liquidity requirements As the Emerging Markets portfolio has The appetite for consumption of Group are both met from its own available resources.
grown, we are in the process of strengthening products depends on macro-economic our own expertise and the governance of Within Emerging Markets, banking credit factors that are outside our control, as credit risks.
We have also sought external risk is expected to increase due to planned discussed earlier in this section.
views on areas of greater risk, such as our growth as part of the strategy to become an Our lending credit exposure is concentrated exposures to unsecured lending.
Further integrated financial services business.
Banking in secured lending by Nedbank.
Nedbank development of the credit risk and liquidity credit risk arises in our unsecured lending intends to grow its transactional banking risk management framework will continue.
business, Old Mutual Finance OMF, Faulu, franchise and balance its funding mix to a Kenyan consumer finance business, and our For unsecured lending, OMF continues to reduce reliance on wholesale funding through building society in Zimbabwe known as CABS.
focus on quality business through regular its strategic portfolio tilt initiative.
Unsecured adjustment of affordability and credit Associated funding risk arises as funds flow lending growth is expected to remain slow.
scorecards and risk-based product metrics from insurance to banking lending businesses In line with Group strategy, credit risk loan term, size and interest rates, based in Emerging Markets, which requires a robust increased in 2015 across the Group, but on changing market conditions.
mainly in Emerging Markets growing Refer to the Nedbank and Emerging Investment credit risk arises in Old Mutual lending and annuity businesses.
Markets detailed Business Review, found in Specialised Finance and the South African Within Emerging Markets, OMF has achieved the 2015 Preliminary Results statement, for life business, predominantly through controlled growth in unsecured lending from more information on credit exposures.
the management of assets backing a low base, applying stringent affordability annuity products.
requirements and strict credit criteria.
Credit risk outside Nedbank and Emerging However, in the context of the challenging Markets is relatively limited.
macro-economic environment, there has been some deterioration in the average credit quality of loans and advances.
Emerging Markets is planning further lending growth in Faulu, CABS, and OMF.
This will be accompanied by strong credit risk and liquidity risk management together with risk oversight and governance.
How principal risks have changed over the year Principal risks have remained broadly similar since the 2014 Annual Solvency II: The Solvency II capital coverage ratio remains stable, Report.
The following risks were highlighted in the 2014 Annual Report within the range of expectations relative to last year, and regulatory and are emphasised less or no longer explicitly discussed: decisions on key aspects have been communicated.
Power outages in South Africa: South African businesses have Tax risk and uncertainties: Legacy issues have been satisfactorily navigated through the disruption caused by outages.
closed and the Group has a low risk appetite for tax risk.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 90 Our risk and governance framework is Our risk strategy principles set out in the Group Operating Model.
Our risk strategy is supported by principles RISKS It is supported by economic capital tools that must be considered in deciding CONTINUED and transparent processes for managing, whether or not to pursue an opportunity.
We only take on risks that we continue to refine structures and processes understand and can price appropriately as necessary, but the overall governance so that expected reward exceeds structures are operating well within the minimum risk-adjusted return for businesses and the Group.
These structures RISK AND shareholders and have the skills and processes, together with businesses that to monitor and manage.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT are adequately, though not excessively, 2.
We prefer risks that are capital-efficient capitalised, provide a solid base to support to underwrite.
The impact on our business as we pursue our managed diversification or concentration with separation strategy over the next few years.
the existing risk profile should be Culture and values are aligned across the understood and considered.
Risk framework Group and embedded through our Code 3.
We consider risk by business, taking Our risk framework aims to align strategy, of Conduct and ACT NOW!
Leadership into account the available regulatory Behaviours.
Risk culture and conduct capital, processes, people, technology and and economic capital in the business, knowledge in order to evaluate and manage are receiving increased supervisory and in aggregate at Group level.
business opportunities, uncertainties and and regulatory attention, and risk culture metrics and appetite are included in our threats in a structured, disciplined manner.
We avoid risks that expose us to very In this way we seek to ensure that risk risk management framework.
Our focus volatile or potentially extreme adverse on customer culture and values provides and capital implications are considered outcomes, such as catastrophe risk.
a sound foundation for this activity.
when we make strategic and operational 5.
Operational risk should be minimised decisions.
Risk management is designed and mitigated, taking into account the Our risk strategy to increase our understanding of the risks cost versus the benefit of doing so.
and risk appetite inherent in the business, to improve decisionOur overall strategic aim is to build and Our risk universe is set out on the making which includes accepting risk.
grow each of our businesses in line with their following page.
Risk frameworks and governance model are respective strategies.
Central to this is overseen centrally but implemented by our maintaining the Groups and each businesses locally, so that we can address business brand and reputation.
We are local requirements appropriately.
This committed to operating responsibly, approach is reinforced through Group examining the impacts and risks of our representation on business Boards, coupled decisions on all our stakeholders as an Doing the with formal dual reporting for key control integral part of our decision-making process right thing by and management functions.
Further details for further information on our responsible can be found in the Directors Report on business approach see the Stakeholder all our Corporate Governance on page 103.
Relationships section on page 13, and the stakeholders is Positives Futures Plan which can be found As a consequence of the strategic review, in the Old Mutual Reporting Centre, at the heart of our risk focus will adapt as we monitor www.
the operational execution of the intended all our businesses Doing the right thing by all our stakeholders business changes.
The existing one-year is at the heart of all our businesses and is metrics provide an initial view of the risks and is therefore therefore the foundation for our risk appetite.
we face which is augmented by multi-year the foundation Our risk strategy guides the way we scenario testing results to monitor creeping take on risk in the course of running our risks.
The Groups key objective is to ensure for our that the Group and each business have business and managing value for all risk appetite stakeholders.
It is a core component of our adequate capital and cash generation for business strategy, influenced not only by the their needs and delivery of their strategy.
available regulatory and economic capital and earnings at risk, but also by reference to factors such as our customer focus.
The Groups key objective is to ensure that the Group and each business have adequate capital and cash generation that is appropriate to their needs and delivery of their strategy OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report OUR RISK UNIVERSE 91 3 Strategic Market risk risk Compliance Business & Regulatory risk Old Mutual risk Risk Categorisation Model Liquidity Liability risk risk 2 1 Credit & Operational Counterparty risk risk 2 3 1 Risk exposure captured via Risk exposure captured via Risk exposure largely not quantitative risk metrics quantitative risk metrics stressed quantifiable, but risks actively Economic Capital at Risk, cash balances are considered as managed.
Risk metrics are Earnings at Risk and Operational part of stress and scenario testing.
projected for the business plan Risk one-year metrics, augmented period of three years as part of Liquidity buffers are held at by multi-year scenario testing multi-year scenario testing, which Group and business unit level.
over the three-year business provides insights into these risk planning horizon.
The potential financial impact from compliance failures and regulatory breaches is captured in the operational risk measure and operational risk economic capital within economic capital at risk and earnings at risk.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 92 Operational risk The risk arising from operational activities, RISKS such as a failure of a major system, CONTINUED or losses incurred as a consequence of people and or process failures, including external events.
Compliance and regulatory risk The risk that laws and regulations will be Risk descriptions breached.
This includes risk of regulatory Liability risk intervention resulting in sanctions being We assume liability risk, sometimes imposed or a temporary restriction on our referred to as insurance risk, by issuing ability to operate and or an additional insurance contracts under which we regulatory capital charge.
It also includes agree to compensate the policyholder or failure to adapt to regulatory change and beneficiary if a specified uncertain future business conduct risk.
event affecting the policyholder occurs.
This risk includes mortality and morbidity Strategic risk risk, as well as non-life risk from events The risk of failing to implement the such as fire or accident.
strategy of each business and the Group managed separation strategy and the Market risk management of associated changes to This is the risk of a financial impact arising the business, including external factors from changes in the value of financial such as political risk.
assets or financial liabilities from changes in equity, bond and property prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
We separately consider currency translation risk, which relates to the translation of earnings and capital to our reporting currency.
Secondary market risk arises OUR RISK MANAGEMENT from our exposure to asset-based fee risk.
CONSIDERS: CAPITAL Credit and counterparty risk EARNINGS, LIQUIDITY This relates to the risk of credit defaults.
AND REPUTATION It includes lending risk, where a borrower becomes unable to repay outstanding balances for instance banking credit risk, as well as counterparty risk where an asset is not repaid in accordance with the terms of the contract.
The risk of credit spreads changing is included under market risk.
Business risk The risk that business performance will be below projections as a result of negative variances in new business volumes and margins, and lapse, rebate and expense experience.
Liquidity risk The risk that liquid assets may not be available to pay obligations at a reasonable cost, when due.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 93 Risk appetite principles Capital Earnings Liquidity The Group has limited appetite for regulatory The Group accepts that as part of its The Group has no appetite for failing to intervention perceived or real.
As such, we growth aspirations, especially in new areas, deliver on its payment obligations and holds a hold a buffer above minimum regulatory earnings volatility and execution risk are buffer at Group level to support this, sufficient requirements in order to remain solvent.
to withstand a liquidity survival horizon of at least 12 months.
Our key principles for setting this buffer are to However, we have no appetite for big ensure all of our businesses are each surprises: earnings volatility that cannot be The Group should be able to meet short-term well-capitalised, and that the Group position anticipated by the market or significant plausible but extreme losses.
We use must remain compliant with regulatory operational losses.
multi-year stress and scenario testing to requirements at all times.
We recognise that project stressed cash balances and ensure As such, a key focus is on understanding the the Group position does not afford we are holding sufficient liquidity buffers and different drivers of earnings volatility, focusing transparency into the underlying strength of hard currency to service debt, meet head on identifying acceptable and unacceptable our business units, or enable ready office costs and pay dividends.
causes of profit volatility, and monitoring comparisons with peers, and we are our exposure and experience over time to prepared to accept this provided the ensure that outcomes are within our risk underlying businesses remain adequately tolerance framework.
capitalised and resilient to downside stresses.
These principles will be used to define our appetite for regulatory capital risk throughout the managed separation process.
As regulatory capital varies by sector, we also have an economic capital appetite which reflects our own view of 1-in-200 year risk events or slightly higher for Nedbank.
Risk and control culture A proactive risk and control culture is essential to support our reputation and operation as a responsible business.
Individual behaviours and judgements support a strong risk governance framework.
We measure our risk and control culture by considering our governance and tone from the top, understanding of risk, attitude to risk, control functions, quality of management information, and remuneration structures.
Our risk appetite framework supports monitor material risks more regularly and in introduced a different regulatory lens delivery of our risk strategy.
It includes risk more detail.
For 2015, all risk metrics across through which we look at Group capital.
appetite principles to guide our businesses the Group were within risk appetite limits.
Economic capital continues to be monitored and clarify our risk strategy in line with the Each business monitors more granular risk as part of the Groups risk management Groups risk appetite, as set out above.
limits, which vary by business.
framework, however, as we manage capital These principles are supported by where the risks lie and given the strategic In addition we monitor early warning qualitative risk appetite statements in the intent outlined in the managed separation, indicators across all our businesses that Groups risk policy suite, and by our focus is on ensuring the individual trigger investigative action to identify and quantitative risk limits for our risk appetite businesses are adequately, though not understand sources of additional risk and metrics, set as an iterative part of our excessively, capitalised.
Given this changing management actions needed to avoid business planning process to ensure that regulatory framework and as we transition breaching the risk appetite limits.
local risk limits are consistent with local towards separation, the lead regulator for business plans.
As part of this process we each of our businesses will become the The Groups regulatory framework is set risk limits by risk type, at both Group changing primarily as a result of the local regulator.
We will work with each and business level.
Twice a year there is a entity to ensure relevant regulatory implementation of Solvency II in Europe formal review of risk exposures against the requirements are met and we will review and SAM and Twin Peaks in South Africa, limits and early warning thresholds.
As well as well as Basel III in our banking risk appetite metrics as appropriate.
as this, businesses use operational limits to businesses.
The Solvency II regime has The Groups regulatory framework is changing primarily as a result of the implementation of Solvency II in Europe and SAM and Twin Peaks in South Africa, as well as Basel III in our banking businesses.
The Solvency II regime has introduced a different regulatory lens through which we look at Group capital.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 94 Economic capital Risk profile of the Old Mutual Group by business unit RISKS CONTINUED 1 OLD MUTUAL GROUP The Groups economic capital risk profile, and for each business, as at 31 December 1 2015 is shown to the right.
The Groups current overall risk profile allows for additional risks at Group level not included in the business pie charts most notably currency translation risk due to our significant surplus assets in South 6 Africa, which in this calculation are assumed to be fully transferable.
Currency translation risk represents almost 2 5 100% a quarter of our Group risk profile.
This risk relates mainly to the translation of surplus capital from rand to sterling and is a structural feature of the current Group structure.
As our capital is held where our risks are located, the risk would only be 4 3 realised if we were to require transfer of surplus capital between regions during periods of stress.
Groups risk profile We assess the Groups risk profile through several different lenses, in line with our risk appetite.
Market risk 24% capital efficiency, avoiding excessive risk 2. Credit and counterparty 14% concentrations and diversifying risk where 3. Business 23% possible.
In this context, we review risk 4.
Liability 11% concentration and diversification within 5.
Each of our businesses and 6.
Currency 22% regulated companies within businesses is sufficiently capitalised in its own right.
The distribution and allocation of capital to our businesses largely reflects the different risk profiles within their regions and the prevailing regulatory requirements.
Even when applying significant economic stresses to our current capital, the Group remains adequately capitalised.
The Group is more sensitive to changes in earnings, cash remittances from each business and subsequently dividends.
We apply multiyear scenario testing including reverse stress testing to test the viability of the business model and to support risk management of the managed separation.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report The economic capital risk profile of the Group is 95 based on standalone economic capital at risk, i. e. the relative contribution of each risk is determined before allowing for the impact of diversification between risks, as at 31 December 2015.
For risk 2 3 management purposes, we believe that it is EMERGING MARKETS NEDB ANK appropriate to consider the risk exposure before diversification, to enable us to assess changes in quantifiable risks impacting the business units No chart is shown for Old Mutual Bermuda, which provides 2% of standalone economic capital.
6 1 1 5 5 4 Group risks provide 22% of standalone economic capital 1 The chart shows Old Mutuals 76.7% gross of shares to EBT proportionate share of OMAMs 3 4 4 economic capital exposure 2 2 Emerging Markets business includes our exposure 40% 16% to Africa, Latin America and Asia 2 3 The chart shows Old Mutuals 54.9% proportionate 4 share of Nedbanks economic capital exposure 3 4 % of Group standalone economic capital at risk for business unit.
Market risk 20% 2. Credit and counterparty 8% 2. Credit and counterparty 60% 3. Business 30% 3. Business 13% 4.
Currency 0% OLD MUTUAL ASSET OLD MUTUAL WEALTH MANAGEMENT 6 1 1 5 5 4 4 4 19% 2% 2 3 3 1.
Market risk 31% 2. Credit and counterparty 0% 2. Credit and counterparty 3% 3. Business 23% 3. Business 45% 4.
Currency 5% OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 96 RISKS CONTINUED Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA We do not view risk as something separate from our business strategy and We have further enhanced the Group stress and scenario testing process.
Risk strategy is implicit in our business strategy, and the aim of the We are achieving greater consistency by engaging with business units to ORSA is to bring this out more explicitly.
The ORSA is an integral part of our produce the same set of scenarios, with aggregation and top-down existing business management, risk management, business planning and overlays performed at Group level.
New scenario parameters, drawn from decision-making processes.
It is also an integral tool for justifying our viability discussions with economists across the Group, were presented to the Board statement, as set out on page 122 of the Corporate Governance section.
Risk Committee for challenge and approval.
The ORSA includes all the processes for risk identification, risk assessment The scenarios tested at Group level are determined with reference to our and measurement, risk management, risk monitoring and reporting overall strategy and the macro-economic environment we are operating in.
that are in place through the Group Operating Model and Group For 2015, these were: Enterprise Risk Management framework.
The impact of an adverse South African economic outlook, leading to a Capital and risk exposure metrics methodology and results are challenged South African sovereign downgrade to sub-investment grade status with and reviewed as part of the ORSA.
This includes regulatory capital, further economic implications economic capital, earnings and cash flow profiles, over a three-year The impact of prolonged low growth in developed markets, horizon.
This allows us to view risks through various lenses and shows which keeping interest rates low for a longer period, affecting our businesses in risks impact our one-year earnings views differently from multi-year the UK and the US creeping risks and longer-term capitalised balance sheet risks.
For example, losses due to credit impairments or defaults impact earnings relatively more A reverse stress test a scenario which may result in the business model than capital: therefore counterparty default is a higher proportion of the and or business plan becoming unviable, including idiosyncratic impacts earnings at risk profile over time relative to the economic capital at risk specific to the business units.
Further details on Solvency II results can be found in the Solvency II We have adopted a modular approach to the ORSA, and the Board has press release accompanying the preliminary results.
reviewed the respective elements of the ORSA during the year as part of the business review cycle.
The Group ORSA report has been shared with the Prudential Regulation Authority.
The Business Units had sufficient capital to withstand these very significant shocks, and the capital positions recover as management actions take effect.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 97 We seek to optimise capital efficiency, avoiding excessive risk concentrations and diversifying risk where possible.
In this context, we review risk concentration and diversification within each business Key parameters used in the stress testing scenario over the business planning horizon: 2016 2017 2018 As part of our ongoing stress and scenario testing we have assessed Equity markets the impact on Group capital of a downgrade in the investment status of SWIX RSA 23% 9% 1% South Africa, coupled with a deteriorating economic outlook for the rest FTSE 100 UK 13% 0% 5% of the world.
RLV 1000 USA 10% 0% 5% The Business Units had sufficient capital to withstand these very Interest rates significant shocks, and the capital positions recover as management actions take effect.
RSA Prime Nedbank 13.3% 12.1% 10.2% RSA 10-year government bond OMEM 10.9% 9.8% 8.7% The Group solvency ratio remains stable due to a combination of the resilience of Old Mutual Wealth, the ability of the restricted surplus in Rand GBP average 29.2 31.3 33.4 OMEM and Nedbank to absorb the effects of the shock, and the depreciation of the Rand.
Credit risk Although the capital position is resilient, this scenario would materially affect earnings in the business units which reduce substantially in 2016 and 100bps spread widening OMEM recover only modestly as management actions take effect.
The Group Up to 1.6% additional average credit loss ratio in Nedbank, 2.7% in OMEM dividend flexes within the dividend policy to accommodate the materially Business risk lower earnings and to protect the cash position within the Group.
20% decrease in new business sales in OMEM 20% increase in lapses in OMEM The Strategic Report on pages 1-97 was approved by the Board of Directors on 11 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by Bruce Hemphill Group Chief Executive OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
