Currency translation risk, location of capital and sources of remittances Risk mitigation and How it impacts Old Mutual 2015 and beyond management actions Our Group earnings, dividend and regulatory In 2015 the rand depreciated by a further We hold our capital resources including much surplus capital are reported in sterling but 28%, with an average rate of R19.51 against of the Groups issued debt to meet capital c. 70% of our earnings and surplus capital the pound.
This followed depreciations of requirements in matched currencies, and are denominated in South African rand.
It reflected service interest on debt with matching the relative weakness of South Africas earnings and cash flows.
The translation of our rand earnings and economic outlook, political uncertainty and, balance sheet value will reflect exchange We closely monitor the balance of cash flows in part, a declining appetite for emerging rate movements.
earned in rand and other currencies, and market currencies.
our dividend policy helps to address this risk Our capital is held where our risks are We see macro-economic factors pointing to through its link to earnings.
located and in the appropriate currency for further rand weakness in the medium term.
those risks: so risk would only be realised if We use forward currency contracts to hedge These include the continuing current account we were to require a transfer of surplus capital expected rand and other currency cash flows deficit and the possibility of further capital between regions during periods of stress.
over the year ahead, needed to make outflows from South Africa.
For example, dividend and other payments in sterling.
Due to exchange controls and terms of the some external investors may sell their holdings demutualisation agreement, capital from Regular stress and scenario testing helps us of South African government bonds if global South Africa is not fully freely transferable.
understand and monitor the resilience of our interest rates rise and or the countrys For the stress scenarios we assess, the key capital and capacity to pay dividends over the sovereign rating is further downgraded.
impact on Group is through cash and business plan horizon.
The chosen scenarios dividends, as referred to in the principal risk include a decline in the rand, alongside Uncertain global economic conditions.
further significant currency movements or restrictions however remote on the flow of The Groups overall solvency position is funds from South Africa.
Our modelling further desensitised to currency movements shows we are sufficiently capitalised in line by the Solvency II fungibility restrictions.
with our philosophy of holding capital Clarification on the treatment of surplus where the risks lie.
However, to maintain the fungibility has been confirmed and non-EU dividend cover required in our dividend policy surpluses may not be included in our in severe scenarios, a fall in the sterling value Solvency II calculations.
of rand-based earnings could result in significantly lower sterling-based dividends.
The managed separation will ensure that each business will be able to access capital more easily from, and be more closely aligned to, its natural shareholder bases.
This addresses challenges the Group has faced with translation of rand earnings, cash remittances and consequent impact on dividends amidst significant rand depreciation, and lack of transparency of underlying businesses capital strength in the Groups overall solvency position due to fungibility constraints.
The managed separation will ensure that each business will be able to access capital more easily from, and be more closely aligned to, their natural shareholder bases OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
