Financials 276 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2015 L1: Accounting policies on financial assets and liabilities The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets investments and loans, financial liabilities investment contracts, customer deposits and borrowings, reinsurance assets and insurance liabilities.
The key focus of financial risk management for the Group is ensuring that the proceeds from its financial assets are sufficient to fund the obligations arising from its insurance and banking operations.
The most important components of financial risk are credit risk, market risk arising from changes in equity, bond prices, interest and foreign exchange rates and liquidity risk.
a Recognition and derecognition A financial asset or liability is recognised when, and only when, the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
The Group derecognises a financial asset when, and only when: The contractual rights to the cash flows arising from the financial assets have expired or been forfeited by the Group or It transfers the financial asset including substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset or It transfers the financial asset and neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and does not retain control.
A financial liability is derecognised when, and only when the liability is extinguished.
That is when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, assigned, cancelled or has expired.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability or part thereof extinguished or transferred to another party and consideration received, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss.
All purchases and sales of financial assets that require delivery within the timeframe established by regulation or market convention regular way purchases and sales are recognised at trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Loans and receivables are recognised at fair value plus attributable transaction costs when cash is advanced to borrowers.
b Initial measurement Financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset or financial liability.
c Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the statement of financial position at fair value.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices, discounted cash flow models and option pricing models as appropriate.
All derivatives are carried as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives not designated as hedges for hedge accounting purposes are included in investment income or finance costs as appropriate.
d Hedge accounting Qualifying hedging instruments must either be derivative financial instruments or non-derivative financial instruments used to hedge the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in fair value or changes in cash flows.
Changes in the value of the financial instrument should be expected to offset changes in the fair value or cash flows of the underlying hedged item.
The Group designates certain qualifying hedging instruments as either 1 a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment fair value hedge or 2 a hedge of a future cash flow attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecasted transaction, and could affect profit or loss cash flow hedge or 3 a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Hedge accounting is used for qualifying hedging instruments designated in this way provided certain criteria are met.
The Groups criteria in accordance with reporting standards for a qualifying hedging instrument to be accounted for as a hedge include: Upfront formal documentation of the hedging instrument, hedged item or transaction, risk management objective and strategy, the nature of the risk being hedged and the effectiveness measurement methodology that will be applied is prepared before hedge accounting is adopted The hedge is documented showing that it is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in the fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the risk management and strategy detailed in the upfront hedge documentation The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured The hedge is assessed and determined to have been highly effective on an ongoing basis OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Financials For cash flow hedges of a forecast transaction, an assessment that it is highly probable that the hedged transaction will occur and will 277 carry profit or loss risk.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges and that prove to be highly effective in relation to hedged risk, are recorded in profit or loss, along with the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to that specific hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, and that prove to be highly effective in relation to the hedged risk, are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Any ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognised in profit or loss.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
For fair value hedge accounting, any previous adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged interest-bearing financial instrument carried at amortised cost as a result of previous hedge accounting, is amortised in profit or loss from the date hedge accounting ceases, to the maturity date of the financial instrument, based on the effective interest method.
For hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, any cumulative gains or losses in equity are recognised in profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
e Embedded derivatives Certain derivatives embedded in financial and non-financial instruments, such as the conversion option in a convertible bond, are treated as separate derivatives and recognised as such on a standalone basis, when a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a derivative, their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value with unrealised gains and losses reported in profit or loss.
If it is not possible to determine the fair value of the embedded derivative, the entire hybrid instrument is categorised as fair value through profit or loss and measured at fair value.
f Offsetting financial instruments and related income Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position only when there is currently a legally enforceable right to set off and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Income and expense items are offset only to the extent that their related instruments have been offset in the statement of financial position, with the exception of those relating to hedges, which are disclosed in accordance with profit or loss effect of the hedged item.
g Interest income and expense Interest income and expense in relation to financial instruments carried at amortised cost or held as available-for-sale are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method, taking into account the expected timing and amount of cash flows.
Interest income and expense include the amortisation of any discount or premium or other differences between the initial carrying amount of an interestbearing instrument and its amount at maturity calculated on an effective interest basis.
Interest income and expense on financial instruments carried at fair value through profit or loss are presented as part of interest income or expense.
h Non-interest revenue Non-interest revenue in respect of financial instruments principally comprises fees and commission and other operating income.
These are accounted for as set out below.
Fees and commission income Loan origination fees, for loans that are probable of being drawn down, are deferred together with related direct costs and recognised as an adjustment to the effective yield on the loan.
Fees and commission arising from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of a transaction for a third-party, such as the acquisition of loans, shares or other securities or the purchase or sale of businesses, are recognised on completion of the underlying transaction.
Other income Revenue other than interest, fees and commission including fees and insurance premiums, which includes exchange and securities trading income, dividends from investments and net gains on the sale of banking assets, is recognised in profit or loss when the amount of revenue from the transaction or service can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic benefits of the transaction or service will flow to the Group.
i Financial assets Non-derivative financial assets are recorded as held-for-trading, designated as fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity or available-for-sale.
An analysis of the Groups statement of financial position, showing the categorisation of financial assets, together with financial liabilities is set out in note E1.
j Classification of financial instruments Held-for-trading financial assets Held-for-trading financial assets are those that were either acquired for generating a profit from short-term fluctuations in price or dealers margin, or are securities included in a portfolio in which a pattern of short-term profit taking exists, or are derivatives that are not designated as effective hedging instruments.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Financials 278 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2015 L1: Accounting policies on financial assets and liabilities continued j Classification of financial instruments continued Financial assets designated as fair value through profit or loss Financial assets that the Group has elected to designate as fair value through profit or loss are those where the treatment either eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise when using a different measurement basis for instance with respect to financial assets supporting insurance contract liabilities or are managed, evaluated and reported using a fair value basis for instance financial assets supporting shareholders funds.
All financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss, whether held-for-trading or designated, are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently remeasured at fair value based on bid prices quoted in active markets.
If such price information is not available for these instruments, the Group uses other valuation techniques, including internal models, to measure these instruments.
These techniques use market observable inputs where available, derived from similar assets and liabilities in similar and active markets, from recent transaction prices for comparable items or from other observable market data.
For positions where observable reference data is not available for some or all parameters, the Group estimates the non-market observable inputs used in its valuation models.
Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are based on managements best estimates and the discount rate used is a market-related rate at the reporting date for an instrument with similar terms and conditions.
Fair values of certain financial instruments, such as over-the-counter OTC derivative instruments, are determined using pricing models that consider, among other factors, contractual and market prices, correlations, yield curves, credit spreads, and volatility factors.
Realised and unrealised fair value gains and losses on all financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are included in investment return non-banking or in banking trading, investment and similar income as appropriate.
Interest earned whilst holding financial assets at fair value through profit or loss is reported within investment return non-banking or banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
Dividends receivable are included separately in dividend income, within investment return non-banking or banking trading, investment and similar income, when a dividend is declared.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, other than those classified by the Group as fair value through profit or loss or available-for-sale.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost less any impairment write-downs.
Third-party expenses such as legal fees incurred in securing a loan are treated as part of the cost of the transaction.
Held-to-maturity financial assets Financial assets with fixed maturity dates which are quoted in an active market and where management has both the intent and the ability to hold the asset to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity.
These assets are carried at amortised cost less any impairment write-downs.
Interest earned on held-to-maturity financial assets is reported within investment return non-banking or banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
Available-for-sale financial assets Financial assets intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices other than those designated fair value through profit or loss or as loans and receivables, are classified as available-for-sale.
Management determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of the purchase.
Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value based on bid prices quoted in active markets.
If such prices are unavailable or determined to be unreliable, the fair value of the financial asset is estimated using pricing models or discounted cash flow techniques.
Where pricing models are used, inputs are based on observable market data where available at the reporting date.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in other comprehensive income.
When available-for-sale financial assets are disposed, the related accumulated fair value adjustments are included in profit or loss as gains and losses from available-for-sale financial assets.
When available-for-sale assets are impaired the resulting loss is shown separately in profit or loss as an impairment charge.
Interest earned on available-for-sale financial assets is reported within investment return non-banking or banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
Dividends receivable are included separately in dividend income, within investment return non-banking or banking trading, investment and similar income, as appropriate when a dividend is declared.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Financials Financial liabilities other than investment contracts and derivatives 279 Non-derivative financial liabilities, including borrowed funds, amounts owed to depositors and liabilities under acceptances are recorded as held-for-trading, designated as fair value through profit or loss or as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Liabilities that the Group has elected to designate as fair value through profit or loss are those where the treatment either eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise when using a different measurement basis or are managed, evaluated and reported using a fair value basis.
For financial liabilities recorded at fair value and which contain a demand feature, the fair value of the liability is not less than the amount payable on demand, discounted from the first date that the amount could be required to be paid.
Financial liabilities categorised at amortised cost are recognised initially at fair value, which is normally represented by the transaction price, less directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition these financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in profit or loss over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Equity classified conversion options included within financial liabilities are recorded separately in shareholders equity.
The Group does not recognise any change in the value of this option in subsequent periods.
The remaining obligation to make future payments of principal and interest to bondholders is calculated using a market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond and is presented on the amortised cost basis in other borrowed funds until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the statement of financial position and the difference between the carrying amount of a liability and the consideration paid is included in other income.
k Reclassifications of financial assets A non-derivative financial asset that would have met the definition of loans and receivables at initial recognition that was required to be categorised as held-for-trading on the basis that it was held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term may under exceptional circumstances be reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category if the Group intends and is able to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
If a financial asset is so reclassified, it is reclassified at its fair value on the date of reclassification.
Any gain or loss already recognised in profit or loss is not reversed.
The fair value at the date of reclassification becomes its new cost or amortised cost, as applicable.
Other non-derivative financial assets that were required to be categorised as held-for-trading at initial recognition may be reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category in rare circumstances.
Measurement of the asset after reclassification depends on the subsequent categorisation.
A non-derivative financial asset that would have met the definition of loans and receivables at initial recognition that was designated as available-for-sale may under exceptional circumstances be reclassified out of the available-for-sale category to the loans and receivables category if it meets the loans and receivables definition at the date of reclassification and if the Group intends and is able to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
In the case of a financial asset with a fixed maturity, the gain or loss already recognised in the available-for-sale reserve in equity is amortised to profit or loss over the remaining life using the effective interest method together with any difference between the new amortised cost and the maturity amount.
In the case of a financial asset that does not have a fixed maturity, the gain or loss already recognised in the availablefor-sale reserve in equity is recognised in profit or loss when the financial asset is sold or otherwise disposed.
l Sale and repurchase agreements and lending of securities Securities sold subject to linked repurchase agreements are retained in the financial statements as appropriate when considering the fide-recognition criteria contained within IAS 39.
The securities that are retained in the financial statements are reflected as trading or investment securities and the counterparty liability is included in amounts owed to other depositors, deposits from other banks, or other money market deposits, as appropriate.
Securities purchased under agreements to resell at a pre-determined price are recorded as loans and advances to other banks or customers as appropriate.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over the lives of agreements using the effective interest method.
Securities lent to counterparties are retained in the financial statements and any interest earned recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
Securities borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case the purchase and sale are recorded with the gain or loss included in trading income.
The obligation to return them is recorded at fair value as a trading liability.
m Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates are recorded at cost.
Impairments of Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates are accounted for in the same way as impairments of other non-financial assets.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Financials 280 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2015 L1: Accounting policies on financial assets and liabilities continued n Impairments of financial assets Indicators of impairment A provision for impairment is established if there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover all amounts relating to the financial asset.
Observable data that could come to the attention of the Group that could lead to a provision for impairment to be made include: Significant financial difficulty of the counterparty A breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments The Group, for economic or legal reasons relating to the counterpartys financial difficulty, grants to the counterparty a concession that the Group would not otherwise consider It becoming probable that the counterparty will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation Observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows from a group of assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identified with the individual financial assets, including: adverse changes in the payment status of counterparties in the group of financial assets: or national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets in the group of financial assets.
In addition, for an available-for-sale financial asset, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value below its cost is also objective evidence of impairment.
Financial assets at amortised cost The amount of the impairment of a financial asset held at amortised cost is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount, being the value of expected cash flows, including amounts recoverable from guarantees and collateral, discounted based on the effective interest rate at initial recognition.
In estimating future expected cash flows the Group looks at the contractual cash flows of the assets and adjusts these contractual cash flows for historical loss experience of assets with similar credit risks, with this adjusted to reflect any additional conditions that are expected to arise or to account for those which no longer exist.
This is done to predict inherent losses which exist in the asset as at the reporting date but have not been reported.
The impairment provision also covers losses where there is objective evidence that losses are present in components of the loan portfolio at the reporting date, but these components have not yet been specifically identified.
When a loan is uncollectable, it is written-off against the related impairment provision.
If the amount of impairment subsequently decreases due to an event occurring after the write-down, the release of the impairment provision is credited to profit or loss.
Impairment reversals are limited to what the carrying amount would have been, had no impairment losses been recognised.
Interest income on impaired loans and receivables is recognised on the impaired amount using the original effective interest rate before the impairment.
Available-for-sale financial assets The amount of the impairment loss of an available-for-sale financial asset is the cumulative loss that has been recognised in other comprehensive income, being the difference between the acquisition cost and the assets current fair value, less any impairment loss on that asset previously recognised in profit or loss.
For available-for-sale debt securities, fair value is determined as the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of interest.
All such impairments are recognised in profit or loss.
The release of an impairment allowance in respect of a debt instrument categorised as available-for-sale is credited to profit or loss, the release in respect of an equity instrument categorised as available-for-sale is credited to the available-for-sale reserve within equity.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
