Governance Hemphill, who replaced Julian Roberts with 103 effect from the beginning of November 2015.
Vassi Naidoo joined the Board as a new non-executive director in May 2015, succeeding Reuel Khoza as Chairman of Nedbank Group Limited and Nedbank CORPORATE Limited, and Trevor Manuel, the former South African Minister of Finance, has joined the Board as a new non-executive director GOVERNANCE with effect from January 2016.
We have five female members of the Board and I am delighted that our progress in fostering diversity on our Board was recognised during 2015 by our being cited as the UK public company that had made the best progress in this area over the past few years.
During 2015, the Board focused on operational delivery and execution, including the integration of the Groups significant recent acquisitions in the UK, South Africa and the Rest of Africa.
Board meetings were held in Johannesburg in June July and in Cape Town in November December.
Other areas of particular Board focus this year included preparations for Solvency II and the forthcoming introduction of Twin Peaks regulation in South Africa, with its associated implications for the governance and oversight of the Groups major businesses in that country.
We have recently embarked on a review of Board information and other materials to ensure that these remain appropriately focused and fit for purpose.
This topic was also raised by those consulted during our annual Board evaluation process, which was conducted internally this year.
Patrick OSullivan A fuller account of the Boards activities Chairman is included in the following pages.
We shall be saying farewell to our Group I am pleased to introduce this Corporate We have also included in our Corporate Company Secretary, Martin Murray, this Governance report in which, among other Governance report this year, in response year, as he is due to retire at the end of May, things, we describe the Companys to changes in the latest version of the after 17 years in his current role with the compliance with the UK Corporate UK Corporate Governance Code, a Company.
I would like to thank him for his Governance Code 2014, explain how the statement about the longer-term viability valuable contribution over this period.
Board and its main standing committees of the Group, which sits alongside our Annual General Meeting have operated during the past year, going concern statement.
and describe how effective stewardship AGM Board is exercised over the Groups activities Our AGM will be held in London later in Since last years report, we have recruited in the interests of shareholders and the year.
As described in the Directors a new Group Chief Executive, Bruce other stakeholders.
Remuneration Report, we will be consulting about proposed changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy following the outcome of the strategic review, so we will convene our AGM once this has been completed.
As usual, the AGM will be webcast via our website and there will be an opportunity for shareholders to submit questions beforehand to be dealt with at the meeting.
BOARD FOCUS DURING 2015 Our shareholder circular relating to the Group Chief Executive succession AGM will include further details.
We will continue to monitor and develop Preparation for the introduction of Solvency II our Groups corporate governance as we Future strategic positioning and development adapt to an ever-changing environment.
Continued monitoring of the Groups culture Patrick OSullivan and investors views of the Company Chairman OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance 104 To establish clear principles of delegation non-executive directors on the boards of and escalation designed to provide its major subsidiaries to ensure transparent CORPOR ATE appropriate levels of assurance about communication of information in both GOVERNANCE the control environment, while retaining directions.
The boards of Old Mutual CONTINUED flexibility for our businesses to Wealth, Nedbank Group Limited and operate efficiently Old Mutual Emerging Markets are independently regulated and have To set out a clear and comprehensive a majority of independent directors.
governance framework with What is the Companys The Groups major subsidiaries also appropriate procedures, systems and approach to governance?
have their own Audit, Risk and controls facilitating the satisfactory As the Companys primary listing known Remuneration Committees.
discharge of the duties and obligations in the UK as a premium listing is on the of regulated firms, directors and The major businesses hold quarterly London Stock Exchange, this report mainly employees within the Group business reviews with the Company, addresses the matters covered by the UK To articulate clearly what Old Mutual plc to monitor their performance and Corporate Governance Code 2014, but the as shareholder expects from business prospects against a wide spectrum of Company also has appropriate regard to unit boards when exercising their powers criteria.
These arrangements sit alongside governance expectations in other territories as set out in their respective constitutions the submission of detailed monthly financial where its shares are listed.
The text of the reports and communication of risk To take due account of the regulatory UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 and internal audit information through requirement that boards of regulated is available on the Financial Reporting each of the latters functional lines.
entities maintain proper controls over Councils website at www.
the affairs of their respective businesses The GOM also incorporates the three lines Has the Company complied To protect the interests of the Groups of defence principles, assigning roles and with the UK Corporate various stakeholders, including its responsibilities under three categories: Governance Code?
shareholders, creditors, policyholders acceptors of risk, overseers of the risks Throughout the year ended 31 December and customers.
being taken, and independent reviewers 2015 and in the preparation of this Annual and reporters of risk.
How the GOM operates Report and Accounts, the Company has Under the GOM and related The governance relationship with the complied with the main and supporting arrangements with our partly owned Groups majority-owned subsidiary, principles and provisions set out in the subsidiaries Nedbank and OMAM, the Nedbank, recognises the latters own UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 Company appoints up to three members of governance framework as a applicable to that period, as described senior Group executive management as separately-listed entity on the JSE Limited in more detail in the following sections of and the fact that it has minority shareholders.
The Company has a relationship The Companys compliance with the agreement with Nedbank that sets out provisions of the UK Corporate the Companys requirements and Governance Code 2014, and the expectations as its majority shareholder.
statement relating to the going concern The text of that relationship agreement basis adopted in preparing the financial is available on the Companys website.
statements set out towards the end of this Nedbank has also adopted the GOM, section of this report, have been reviewed subject to certain waivers in by the Companys auditor, KPMG LLP, We aim to take a acknowledgement of its separately-listed in accordance with guidance published and regulated status, which sits alongside holistic approach by the UK Auditing Practices Board.
to governance, Approach to governance The Groups major South African public We aim to take a holistic approach to subsidiary companies are subject to with a proactive governance, with a proactive and applicable local governance expectations, and effective effective Board providing the framework including those contained in King III for addressing the Groups long-term and, for Nedbank, the JSEs Listings Board providing sustainability.
In addition, given that the the framework Group has two domestic systemically The current Group Operating Model important financial institutions GOM was adopted in 2010 and has for addressing the Old Mutual Emerging Markets and continued to evolve since then as the Nedbank we are actively considering Groups long-term Groups governance has adapted to how we may need to adapt the future changing regulatory expectations and sustainability governance of our South African corporate events such as the sale of operations as South Africa migrates to Skandia Nordic in 2012 and the partial IPO a Twin Peaks regulatory model similar of our US asset management business, OM to the UKs.
Discussions will now take place Asset Management plc OMAM, in 2014. with local regulators to establish how the Our GOM is based on a strategic Groups proposed managed separation controller model steered from our Group may affect these matters.
Its objectives are: OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance OMAM, the Groups US majority-owned Julian Roberts, the former Group 105 TENURE OF THE institutional asset manager, is listed on the Chief Executive, ceased to be a NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
It is director on 31 October 2015 INCLUDING THE CHAIRMAN therefore subject to the rules of the US Bruce Hemphill joined the Board Securities and Exchange Commission, the AND TREVOR MANUEL as Group Chief Executive on NYSE listing rules and other requirements AT 1 JANUARY 2016 1 November 2015 applicable to US publicly-listed entities, On 3 December 2015, the Company including those of the Sarbanes-Oxley announced that Trevor Manuel would Act of 2002.
OMAM has adopted policies join the Board as a non-executive and governance principles that are closely 1 director from 1 January 2016. aligned with those set out in the GOM.
In In September 2015, we announced that addition, as part of the arrangements 4 Paul Hanratty, our Chief Operating Officer, leading up to its separate listing, OMAM 2 would be stepping down from the Board entered into a shareholders agreement in March 2016. with Old Mutual plc and OM Group UK Limited giving the Group various rights with Tenure of non-executive respect to the management and conduct of directors OMAMs affairs.
A copy of this agreement Other than in exceptional circumstances, 3 is available on the Companys website.
non-executive directors including the We anticipate that the GOM will undergo Chairman serve a maximum of nine years further revision during 2016 as a in office.
This maximum period consists of consequence of the recently completed two three-year terms, followed by up to 1.
12 months strategic review and proposed managed three further one-year terms.
1-3 years separation of the Group.
3-6 years successive terms is not automatic and the 4.
6 years Who serves on the Board continued suitability of each non-executive and how does it operate?
director is assessed by the Nomination Old Mutuals Board currently has 14 and Governance Committee before their members, three of whom are executive and appointment is renewed.
1 1 of whom including the Chairman are The table below sets out the Boards non-executive.
The following changes to the continuing membership in more detail Boards membership took place during 2015: and in order of original appointment.
Vassi Naidoo joined the Board as a For a description of how people are non-executive director on 1 May 2015 selected to join the Board and how orderly Reuel Khoza ceased to be a nonsuccession planning for the non-executive executive director on 14 May 2015, directors is addressed, see the Report following his retirement as Chairman from the Nomination and Governance of Nedbank Committee later in this report.
The Boards current membership Date of original appointment to the Date current term ends, where Current term as director, where Role Name and nationality Board applicable applicable Non-executive director Mike Arnold British September 2009 September 2016 3rd First year Chairman Patrick OSullivan Irish January 2010 January 2017 3rd First year Non-executive director Roger Marshall British August 2010 August 2016 2nd Senior Independent Director Alan Gillespie British November 2010 November 2016 2nd Nonkululeko  director Heita SA March 2012 March 2018 2nd Non-executive director Danuta Gray British March 2013 March 2019 2nd Non-executive director Nkosana Moyo Zim September 2013 September 2016 1st Non-executive director Zoe Cruz US January 2014 January 2017 1st Non-executive director Adiba Ighodaro British January 2014 January 2017 1st Chief Operating Officer Paul Hanratty Zim Irish July 2014 12 March 2016 Group Finance Director Ingrid Johnson SA July 2014 Non-executive director Vassi Naidoo SA British May 2015 May 2018 1st Group Chief Executive Bruce Hemphill SA November 2015 Non-executive director Trevor Manuel SA January 2016 January 2019 1st OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
