Uncertain global economic conditions Risk mitigation and How it impacts Old Mutual 2015 and beyond management actions Like all global financial services firms, the The global economic outlook remains We monitor multiple external economic Group is exposed to global economic uncertain, impacting all of the Groups factors and incorporate them into stress and conditions.
The main impact is on Group businesses.
Volatility in global equity markets scenario testing to understand our earnings, profitability.
The current persistently volatile, over 2015 and the early part of 2016 had liquidity and capital resilience to severe uncertain, complex and ambiguous a negative impact on asset growth and net macro-economic events.
macroeconomic and geopolitical client cash flows for Old Mutual Wealth Within Emerging Markets, market risk environments exacerbate this impact.
arising from guaranteed products is The Groups US and UK businesses and While the South African economy shares actively managed by their Balance Sheet Emerging Markets asset management in global economic conditions and is Management team.
Guaranteed products businesses are explicitly seeking market risk therefore affected by the interest rate in Old Mutual Bermuda are managed via as part of their business strategies.
Volatile trajectory in the US, the slowdown in China various hedging programmes.
For more and uncertain global markets could therefore and lower-for-longer oil prices it is also detail on Old Mutual Bermudas hedging adversely affect earnings levels.
Old Mutual impacted by domestic factors.
programmes, please refer to page 227, note Wealth, Old Mutual Investment Group within G of the consolidated financial statements.
During 2015, amidst a benign global Emerging Markets and OMAM are exposed economic recovery, South Africas economic The key impact on Group from a South to secondary market risk through asset-based growth forecasts were revised downwards.
African sovereign rating downgrade is fee risk.
Market risk also arises through Key factors were volatile emerging market reduced remittances from the South African guaranteed business in Emerging Markets economies, driven by weaker growth in China, businesses and consequently the adjustment and residual guarantees in Old Mutual and muted domestic prospects arising from to dividends.
During the heightened market Bermuda, as the sale of that business only weaker commodity prices and energy supply volatility following the South African finance related to the non-guarantee business.
These contributed to a sovereign minister changes in December 2015 and In our insurance and investment businesses, credit downgrade by Fitch in December.
China slowdown in early 2016, the Groups and especially in Emerging Markets, our position was monitored on a daily basis A prolonged period of low oil prices, cutting earnings are at risk if our customers are and has remained within risk appetite.
The transport and food costs, could help to unable to keep up premiums, cancel existing deterioration in the rand, interest rates, credit support disposable incomes and spending, policies or withdraw their savings earlier than spreads and other economic measures were and reduce inflationary pressures, despite anticipated collectively known as lapse risk.
within of the bounds of our scenario analysis.
However, this has been Additionally, our future profits will be at risk if Our business plans are also regularly somewhat offset by drought-induced customers do not buy insurance policies from updated and include consideration of upward pressure on food prices.
us or invest their savings with us at the levels severe adverse scenarios.
If the sovereign credit rating was further we anticipate.
We are actively engaging with the South downgraded to below investment grade In our banking and credit businesses, our African government see the following status, the impact on the Groups business earnings are at risk if counterparties fail to page on Political risk for more detail.
outside South Africa would be limited.
Within meet their contractual servicing of interest South Africa, the impact would come from the We step up our activity to help clients and principal.
Uncertainty and deterioration economic and market-related consequences, during periods of volatility, with a focus on in global economic conditions may affect such as changes in interest rates, foreign understanding individual customers financial the capacity of counterparties to meet exchange rates and international capital positions at the point of sale.
Refer to the these obligations.
Market interest rates, exchange rates Business Review sections for case studies on Credit risk is further assessed as a principal and credit default spreads have priced in the how we partner with and help our customers.
risk on page 89. impact of a soft downgrade.
However, the Our businesses manage premium collections range of consequences is wide, meaning Our exposure to South African sovereign and credit payments, while monitoring for more severe impacts are possible.
debt and parastatals lies only within the early indicators of financial distress.
South African businesses, in line with market We manage our cost base judiciously, and regulatory expectations.
while investing sustainably for the future.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
