Strategic execution risk and breadth of regulatory change across the Group Risk mitigation and How it impacts Old Mutual 2015 and beyond management actions Currently, and for the foreseeable future, there As part of delivering the strategy for each of The risks associated with managed is a high degree of execution risk across the our businesses, we have agreed various separation have been subject to detailed Group.
Regulatory changes affect the entire acquisitions, partnerships and transformation external review covering business industry but the risks of integration of newly programmes over the past two years.
The competitiveness, and the regulatory, legal and acquired business in Emerging Markets and challenge now is to execute the stated strategy stakeholder risks relating to a managed Old Mutual Wealth as well as IT and business within each of the businesses and deliver the separation.
The managed separation execution process transformations will be specific to our intended benefits.
is against the backdrop of challenging businesses.
While many of these regulatory macro-economic conditions, as referred to In addition, the strategy of a managed changes represent opportunities for our previously.
There has been extensive stress and separation announced in March 2016 will businesses, the cumulative impact could scenario testing of the potential impact bring a new set of execution risks.
result in margin compression and increased on cash, capital and earnings.
Emerging Markets completed the operational risk during the transition.
An executive steering group and a bespoke acquisition of a majority holding in UAP in Emerging Markets is impacted by Board oversight committee has been 2015.
Emerging Markets transformation the Retirement Fund Reform and the Retail established to facilitate regular monitoring.
initiative aims to invest in strategic IT-enabled Distribution review in South Africa, which The Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan is being business change, with priorities to improve will mean significant transformation in the revised to reflect the objectives and risks of the customer and intermediary experience medium term.
The National Credit Act will managed separation.
impact the unsecured lending business.
Preparations continue for the SAM regulatory We seek external input for material initiatives Nedbank is affected by the substantial requirements, initially expected to be across our businesses requiring specialist skills.
changes in banking regulation, in particular implemented on 1 January 2016, but delayed Within Emerging Markets, there is a Basel III, that will be phased in by 2019, as until at least 1 January 2017. structured programme for the integration well as increased focus on financial crime Nedbank intends to continue rationalising of the business in Kenya following the UAP prevention and customer-related regulations and simplifying core systems as part of its acquisition.
In addition, oversight committees such as the National Credit Act and FAIS.
strategy, with significant IT programmes at both executive and Board levels have been Twin Peaks regulation is likely to come into focused on regulatory change, compliance, established to oversee the IT and business effect in 2017, potentially affecting both strategic security, client experience, business transformation initiative.
OMEM and Nedbank as domestic processes and growth.
Nedbank has a mature Board-level systemically important financial institutions.
We have established a programme for governance framework for management of This will be followed by SAM regulatory meeting Twin Peaks requirements.
We major IT change and this approach has been capital requirements.
will continue to work towards readiness of extended to cover the regulatory change For Old Mutual Wealth, there have been governance and risk structures, dovetailed programmes, including external reviews.
substantial changes to the UK pensions with the managed separation programme.
In Old Mutual Wealth, on encountering regime resulting in higher inflows and outflows Old Mutual Wealth aims to transform itself delays and cost increases in the transformation across the industry and increased need for into a simpler, vertically integrated business programme, we commissioned a detailed customers to have access to advice to with updated IT systems.
While the level of independent review of the governance and understand the impact of the new choices operational risk in Old Mutual Wealth is within risk frameworks which has resulted in available to them.
New pensions freedoms our risk appetite, it remains high in the short replanning and onboarding of external became effective on 6 April 2015 and Old term pending the implementation of the programme managers to work through Mutual Wealth needs to continue to develop outsourcing arrangement and business remedial actions.
Lessons from this key propositions to remain competitive.
Many transformation programme with IFDS and the change project have been shared across other regulatory developments and actions integration of Intrinsic and Quilter Cheviot.
which continue to be managed as is OMAM will endeavour to identify and seize Within OMAM, new partnership appropriate.
new partnership opportunities as they arise, in opportunities are reviewed and evaluated Within OMAM the key execution risks line with its strategy of building long-term according to strict investment criteria and relate to development of its long-term value for shareholders.
It did not conclude any appropriate governance processes.
strategy, which includes seeking new transactions in 2015. partnership opportunities.
We seek external input for material initiatives across our businesses requiring specialist skills OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
