Financials 301 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2015 1 Financial assets and liabilities Company statement of financial position The Company is principally involved in the management of its investments in subsidiaries, with its risks considered to be consistent with those in the operations themselves.
Full details of the financial risks are provided in the Group financial statements, note F3.
The most important components of financial risk for the Company itself are interest rate risk, currency risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
These risks arise from open positions in interest rate, currency and equity products, all of which are exposed to general and specific market movements.
a Categories of financial instruments The financial instruments of the Company consist of derivative assets and liabilities, both of which are treated as held-for-trading, other assets and cash and cash equivalents which are treated as loan and receivables, borrowed funds of which 535 million is designated as fair value through the income statement and 567 million at amortised cost 2014: 565 million and 114 million respectively and other liabilities which are also measured at amortised cost.
For financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through the income statement, the hierarchy classification as detailed in the Group financial statements, note E3 of derivative assets and liabilities is level 2 and borrowed funds level 1. b Capital risk management Old Mutual plc is the holding company of the Group and is responsible for the raising and allocation of capital in line with the Groups capital management policies set out in note E1 to the consolidated financial statements and for ensuring the operational funding and regulatory capital needs of the holding company and its subsidiaries are met at all times.
c Currency risk The Company is exposed to effects of fluctuations in the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates on its financial position and cash flows through the impact that currency movements have on its derivative.
The principal foreign currency risk arises from the fact that the Companys functional currency is pounds sterling, whereas the functional currency of its principal operations is South African rand, US dollar and Euro.
The exposure of the Group to currency risk is disclosed in the Group consolidated financial statements, note F4.
The Company hedges some of this currency translation risk through currency swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange rate contracts.
Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters utilising forward exchange contracts and currency swap agreements.
A 10% deterioration in the values of the major currencies the Company is exposed to in relation to GBP would result in a decrease in the Companys equity holders funds of 65 million 2014: decrease of 66 million.
d Credit risk The Company is principally exposed to credit risk through its derivative asset positions, investment and securities, holdings of cash and cash equivalents which it holds to back shareholder liabilities and the ability of its subsidiaries to repay amounts due to the Company.
The exposure of the Group to credit risk is disclosed in the consolidated financial statements, note F3 a.
Credit risk is managed by placing limits on exposures to any single counterparty, or groups of counterparties and to geographical and industry segments.
Credit risk is monitored with reference to established credit rating agencies, with limits placed on exposure to below investment grade holdings, or the financial position of companies within the Group.
Of the Companys financial assets bearing credit risk, derivative assets, investment and securities, bonds and cash and cash equivalents are rated as investment grade being AAA to BBB for Standard & Poors or an equivalent.
The other financial assets bearing credit risk are not rated.
e Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that fluctuating interest rates will unfavourably affect the Companys earnings and the value of its assets, liabilities and capital.
The Company employs currency and interest rate swap transactions to mitigate against the impact of changes in the fair values of its borrowed funds.
Details of the arrangements in place are shown in the Group financial statements note G5 Hedge accounting.
f Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Companys short-, mediumand long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Company has net current assets of 46 million 2014: 387 million, all of which represent liabilities to other Group companies.
The Company manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows of both the Company and its subsidiaries.
The key information reviewed by the Companys executive directors and Executive Committee, together with the Capital Management Committee, is a detailed management report on the Companys current and planned capital and liquidity position.
Forecasts are updated regularly based on when new information is received, and as part of the annual business planning cycle.
The Companys liquidity and capital position and forecast is presented to the Companys Board of Directors on a regular basis.
Further information on liquidity and the Companys cash flows is contained in other sections of this Annual Report, for example the business review and Group Finance Directors statement.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
