Political risk Risk mitigation and How it impacts Old Mutual 2015 and beyond management actions Changing government and public sentiment South African policymakers will continue to face Old Mutual will continue to engage and work in the key countries where we operate could challenging economic conditions, as well as the with relevant stakeholders to be alert to adverse potentially influence external perceptions of the increasing prominence of opposition parties political developments.
Political risk may also present additional and a more difficult fiscal position.
Political risk our South African businesses and the Group risks in the macro-economic environment.
and uncertainty are likely to increase.
continue to monitor and assess the impact of political risks.
Given the significant portion of our business Possible negative events that might affect in South Africa, we are particularly exposed Old Mutual are described below.
We are actively engaging with the South to political developments there.
This includes leading In South Africa: include the substantial business we receive from the engagement with government and Change to the regulations and taxation collective labour organisations in South Africa, South Africas big businesses across governing the products we sell or manage which could be adversely impacted by a financial services, mining, industrial and Change in the ownership of the businesses change in sentiment.
telecommunications sectors, on ways to we invest in or do business with, impacting improve sentiment on South Africas investment The nature of a disruptive political event, our customer base case and managing the sovereign ratings and the possible consequences for our South Restrictions on the ability of our South African downgrade risk.
These discussions fed into African business, are particularly difficult to business to remit profits to Group, impacting the 2016 State of the Nation Address and foresee, as are the triggers that might cause the affordability of shareholder dividends.
An event may affect any of In the UK: our key cash flow, capital or liquidity metrics.
In 2015 we commissioned independent political The likelihood of a Brexit following the See more on possible impacts in the Own Risk risk consultants to further analyse the mediumEU referendum in 2016 set for 23 June has and Solvency Assessment section on page 94. to long-term implications for the Group.
increased, with polling suggesting a very Brexit following the 2016 EU referendum impacts Political risk scenarios have been included in close split between Britain remaining in or a small part of the UK heritage business in business planning and in our Own Risk and leaving the EU.
This brings economic and Old Mutual Wealth, which continues to manage Solvency Assessment process.
EEA legacy business, but is not expected to be In Zimbabwe: material.
Old Mutual Global Investors and The risks on government debt, which are Quilter Cheviot might need to set up European offset by the US dollar-denominated currency Economic Area subsidiaries in order to continue and assurances that the country will not be to sell business in Europe.
Though the economic reverting to the Zimbabwe dollar.
However, implications of Brexit are uncertain, one possible government policy moves on reverting to the consequence is sterling depreciation, which has local currency are uncertain already been observed in early 2016.
If the rand strengthens relative to sterling as a result of Brexit, The timing of the pensions commission inquiry from a Group reporting perspective, this could and indigenisation law implementation is mitigate rand depreciation from a South African uncertain and may take time to fully conclude.
In Zimbabwe, the local government has begun re-engaging internationally with the IMF on its debt programme $1.8 billion owed to the ECB and IMF and will have repaid its debts by April 2016, diverting funding into Zimbabwe.
A key concern for Old Mutual is our exposure to the government 200m as at December 2015 and its potential to default on its debt.
The situation in Zimbabwe is exacerbated by current economic conditions and severe drought.
During the heightened market volatility following the South African finance minister changes in December 2015 and China slowdown in early 2016, the Groups position was monitored on a daily basis and has remained within risk appetite.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
