Financials 168 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2015 A: Significant accounting policies A1: Basis of preparation Statement of compliance Old Mutual plc the Company is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates and joint ventures other than those held by life assurance funds which are accounted for as investments at fair value through profit or loss.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Both the Parent Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
On publishing the Parent Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
The accounting policies adopted by the Company and Group, unless otherwise stated, have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, financial assets and liabilities designated as fair value through profit or loss or as available-for-sale, owner-occupied property and investment property, cash-settled share based payments, pension scheme assets and insurance and investment contract liabilities.
Assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of the previous carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell.
The Parent Company financial statements are prepared in accordance with these accounting policies, other than for investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates, which are stated at cost less impairments in accordance with IAS 27.
The Company and Group financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis which the directors believe to be appropriate, having taken into consideration the points as set out in the Directors Report in the section headed Going Concern.
The Group has prepared the financial statements in accordance with its detailed accounting policies which can be found at http: reports2015.
The significant accounting policies are contained in the financial statements and are included in the specific notes to which they relate.
The accounting policies on financial assets and liabilities are included in note L. Judgements made by the directors in the application of these accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements, and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year, are discussed in note A3.
Accounting policy elections The following significant accounting policy elections have been made by the Group: Property and equipment Land and buildings are stated at revalued amounts.
Revaluation surpluses are recognised directly in equity, through other comprehensive income.
Investment in venture capital divisions In venture capital divisions and insurance funds, the Group has elected to carry associate and and insurance funds joint venture entities at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial instruments The Group has elected to designate certain fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss to reduce the accounting mismatch.
Regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised using trade date accounting.
Investment properties The Group has elected to recognise all investment properties at fair value, with changes in fair value being recognised in profit and loss for the year.
Investments in subsidiaries, associate The Group has elected to recognise these investments at cost in the Company financial companies and joint arrangements statements.
Translation of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated from their respective functional currencies into the Groups presentation currency using the year-end exchange rates, and their income and expenses using the average exchange rates for the year.
Other than in respect of cumulative translation gains and losses up to 1 January 2004, cumulative unrealised gains or losses resulting from translation of functional currencies to the presentation currency are included as a separate component of shareholders equity.
To the extent that these gains and losses are effectively hedged, the cumulative effect of such gains and losses arising on the hedging instruments are also included in that component of shareholders equity.
Upon the disposal of subsidiaries the cumulative amount of exchange differences deferred in shareholders equity, net of attributable amounts in relation to net investments, is recognised in profit or loss.
Cumulative translation gains and losses up to 1 January 2004, being the effective date of the Groups conversion to IFRS, were reset to zero.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Financials The exchange rates used to translate the operating results, assets and liabilities of key foreign business segments to pounds sterling are: 169 Y ear ended Y ear ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Statement Statement Income of financial Income of financial statement position statement position average rate closing rate average rate closing rate Rand 19.5223 22.8183 17.8712 17.9976 US dollars 1.5285 1.4734 1.6474 1.5581 Euro 1.3765 1.3560 1.2399 1.2877 A2: Significant corporate activity and business changes during the year Acquisitions completed during the year Acquisition of Quilter Cheviot On 25 February 2015, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of Quilter Cheviot, a leading UK-based discretionary investment manager, for a total consideration of 585 million, comprising of 543 million cash and 42 million of deferred consideration that will be settled in Old Mutual plc shares.
An additional 23 million was paid to the seller to compensate for the increase in the net asset value of Quilter Cheviot between the date at which the acquisition was agreed and the completion of the transaction.
The purchase consideration for the acquisition of Quilter Cheviot was the total cash paid of 566 million.
Goodwill of 292 million and other intangible assets of 288 million 273 million customer relationships and 15 million brand were recognised as a result of the transaction.
Acquisition of UAP Holdings Limited On 24 June 2015, the Group obtained control of UAP Holdings Limited UAP through the acquisition, in two tranches, of a 60.7% ownership interest in UAP for 152 million.
UAP is an East African financial services group that mainly operates in East Africa.
An initial stake of 23.3% was acquired on 1 February 2015, while the remaining 37.
3% stake was acquired on 24 June 2015.
The results and movements in reserves were equity accounted from 1 February 2015 to the date that control was obtained.
Subsequently, from 24 June 2015, the financial results and financial position were consolidated in the Group financial statements.
The purchase price per share did not vary between the acquisition of the two tranches.
Goodwill of 150 million and other intangible assets of 20 million 17 million brand and 3 million customer relationships were recognised as a result of the transaction.
Acquisition of an additional stake in Credit Guarantee Insurance Corporation of Africa Limited CGIC On 1 October 2015, the Group acquired an additional 33.6% stake in Credit Guarantee Insurance Corporation of Africa Limited CGIC for 26 million.
The transaction increased the Groups total holding in CGIC to 86.1%.
The transaction resulted in a decrease in equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent of 15 million and a decrease in non-controlling interests of 11 million.
Acquisition of African Infrastructure Investment Managers Pty Limited On 10 December 2015, the Group acquired an additional 50% stake in African Infrastructure Investment Managers Pty Limited AIIM for 16 million.
As the Group now has a controlling shareholding of 100%, the financial results and position of AIIM have been consolidated with effect from 10 December 2015.
The accounting related to the step up in ownership from 50% to 100% which effectively involved a simultaneous sale of 50% of the business, followed by an acquisition of the fair value of 100% of the business.
Consequently a profit of 15 million was realised on the transaction.
Consistent with usual Group practice, this profit was recognised in the IFRS profit or loss, but excluded from AOP.
Work is currently being undertaken to determine the purchase price allocation of the fair value of 100% of the AIIM business.
Provisional goodwill of 25 million has been recognised on this transaction.
Disposals completed during the year Disposal of Skandia Luxembourg and Skandia France On 2 February 2015, the Group completed the sale of Skandia Luxembourg and Skandia France, part of Old Mutual Wealth.
The Group recognised a loss on disposal of 1 million.
Merger reserves of 68 million relating to these businesses were released directly to retained earnings.
Disposal of Skandia Switzerland On 30 September 2015, the Group completed the sale of Skandia Leben AG, part of Old Mutual Wealth.
The Group recognised a loss on disposal of 51 million.
Merger reserves of 22 million relating to this business were released directly to retained earnings.
Disposal of Old Mutual Bermuda Limited OMB and certain related obligations to Beechwood Bermuda Limited On 31 December 2015, the Group completed the sale of Old Mutual Bermuda Limited OMB to Beechwood Bermuda Limited Beechwood.
In anticipation of the sale, OMBs remaining variable annuity guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits GMAB obligations, which mature in 2017 and 2018, were reinsured to another of the Groups subsidiaries.
A loss on this transaction of 0.4 million was recognised in profit or loss.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Financials 170 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2015 A: Significant accounting policies continued A2: Significant corporate activity and business changes during the year continued As part of the transaction, the Group has agreed to provide Beechwood with administration services for three years.
Except for the GMAB obligations referred to above, all other guarantees and responsibilities for the remaining policyholder administration were transferred to the buyer.
Refer to note J8 for further information.
Unwinding of Black Economic Empowerment BEE Schemes The majority of the Groups South African BEE schemes, established in 2005, have unwound during 2015.
The total value of cash that Group businesses have received in relation to this is 175 million.
The BEE schemes comprise business partner and community schemes in Nedbank and Emerging Markets OMEM.
All the schemes involved the granting of shares to various BEE vehicles in 2005.
In 2015, participants access to these shares has become unrestricted following the settlement of funding provided to them by Group companies and the meeting of vesting criteria in H1 2015.
The notional funding associated with the OMEM schemes was settled with proceeds from the sale of shares by the trusts.
The notional funding associated with the Nedbank schemes has been settled by calling back sufficient shares to settle the amount due to Nedbank.
Shares held by the BEE schemes were previously classified as treasury shares, but are now recognised as issued for Group financial reporting purposes.
OM Asset Management plc OMAM further public share offering On 22 June 2015, the Group disposed of a further 13.3 million OMAM shares for a consideration of $257 million 163 million.
A profit of 49 million was recognised directly in equity reflecting the excess of the consideration over the share of net assets disposed.
Additional non-controlling interests of 114 million were recognised in the statement of financial position.
Disposals announced, but not yet completed Disposal of Rogge Global Partners PLC On 8 February 2016, the Group announced that it has agreed to sell Rogge Global Partners PLC Rogge to Allianz Global Investors GmbH.
The transaction is expected to complete in the second quarter of 2016.
The assets and liabilities of Rogge were classified as held for sale at 31 December 2015.
Refer to note K2 for further information.
Financing activities during the year Old Mutual plc the Company On 3 November 2015, the Company issued 450 million Dated Tier 2 Subordinated Notes under its existing 5,000 million Euro Note Programme.
The notes have a maturity date of 3 November 2025 and pay interest biannually on 3 May and 3 November at a fixed rate of 7.
88% per annum up to and including the maturity date.
On 4 November 2015, being the First Call Date, the Company redeemed the outstanding 374 million 253 million Upper Tier 2 perpetual notes at their nominal value, together with accrued and unpaid interest.
A loss of 11 million on the repurchase was recognised directly in equity and represents the difference between the historical cost and the settlement amount of these instruments.
Emerging Markets On 19 March 2015, OMLAC SA issued R2,061 million 90 million of floating and fixed rate instruments, which have been classified as subordinated debt.
These instruments have maturity dates ranging from 2025 to 2030.
On 11 September 2015, OMLAC SA issued R2,479 million 109 million of floating and fixed rate instruments which has been classified as subordinated debt.
These instruments have maturity dates ranging from 2015 to 2030.
On 27 October 2015, OMLAC SA redeemed R3 billion notes, together with interest accrued to this date.
These notes were issued on 27 October 2005, under OMLAC SA s Unsecured Subordinated Callable Note Programme dated 25 October 2005.
On 3 November 2015, OMLAC SA issued a R460 million 20 million fixed rate instrument which has been classified as subordinated debt.
The final maturity date of this instrument is 19 March 2030.
All of the new instruments were issued through the existing ZAR Unsecured Subordinated Callable Note Programme.
Nedbank Nedbank issued and redeemed debt instruments in the normal course of its funding programme.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Financials 171 A3: Critical accounting estimates and judgements In the preparation of these financial statements, the Group is required to make estimates and judgements that affect items reported in the consolidated income statement, statement of financial position, other primary statements and related supporting notes.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements are those which involve the most complex or subjective judgements or assessments.
Where applicable the Group applies estimation and assumption setting techniques that are aligned with relevant actuarial and accounting guidance based on knowledge of the current situation.
This requires assumptions and predictions of future events and actions.
There have been no significant methodology changes to the critical accounting estimates and judgements that the Group applied at 31 December 2014.
The significant accounting policies are described in the relevant notes.
The key areas of the Groups business that typically require such estimates and the relevant accounting policies and notes are as follows: Area Policy note More detail Loans and advances G1 G1 Life assurance contract provisions G6 G6 Intangible assets and goodwill H1 H1 Consolidation I1 I3 Tax D1 D1 H7 A4: Liquidity analysis of the statement of financial position The Groups statement of financial position is in order of liquidity as is permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
In order to satisfy the requirements of IAS 1, the following analysis is given to describe how the statement of financial position lines are categorised between current and non-current balances, applying the principles laid out in IAS 1.
The following statement of financial position captions are generally classified as current cash and cash equivalents, non-current assets held for sale, current tax receivable, third-party interests in the consolidation of funds, current tax payable, liabilities under acceptances and non-current liabilities held for sale.
The following balances are generally classified as non-current goodwill and other intangible assets, mandatory reserve deposits with central banks, property, plant and equipment, investment property, deferred tax assets, investments in associated undertakings and jointly controlled operations, deferred acquisition costs, deposits held with reinsurers, provisions, deferred revenue and deferred tax liabilities.
The following balances include both current and non-current portions reinsurers shares of life assurance and property & casualty business policyholder liabilities, loans and advances, investments and securities, other assets, derivative financial assets and liabilities, life assurance and property & casualty policyholder liabilities, borrowed funds, amounts owed to bank depositors and other liabilities.
The split between the current and non-current portions for these assets and liabilities is given either by way of a footnote to the relevant note to the accounts or by way of a maturity analysis in respect of major financial liability captions.
A5: Standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations adopted in the 2015 annual financial statements During the year, there were no new standards implemented that had a material effect on the financial statements of the Group.
A6: Future standards, amendments to standards and interpretations not early-adopted in the 2015 annual financial statements At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations, which are relevant to the Group, have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments In July 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for how an entity should classify and measure financial assets, requires changes to the reporting of own credit with respect to issued debt liabilities that are designated at fair value, replaces the current rules for impairment of financial assets and amends the requirements for hedge accounting.
Classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities IFRS 9 requires that an entitys business model and a financial instruments contractual cash flows will determine its classification and therefore its measurement in the financial statements.
Upon assessment each financial asset will be classified as either fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, amortised cost, or fair value through Other Comprehensive Income FVOCI.
As these requirements are different than the assessments under the existing IAS 39 rules, some differences to classification and measurement of financial assets are to be expected.
The classification and measurement of financial liabilities remain largely unchanged under IFRS 9 from current requirements.
However, where issued debt liabilities are designated at fair value, the fair value movements attributable to an entitys own credit risk will be recognised in Other Comprehensive Income rather than in the consolidated income statement under IFRS 9.
Impairment of financial assets The impairment rules under IFRS 9 will apply to those financial assets that are measured at amortised cost and debt instruments measured at FVOCI.
Impairment will move from a model whereby credit losses are recognised when a trigger event occurs under IAS 39 to an expected loss model, where provisions are taken upon initial recognition of the financial asset based on expectations of potential credit losses at that time.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Financials 172 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2015 A: Significant accounting policies continued A6: Future standards, amendments to standards and interpretations not early-adopted in the 2015 annual financial statements continued The allowance for credit losses provided for on initial recognition will be based on a 12-month expected credit loss basis.
Subsequently, should the probability of default of the issuer increase significantly, the expected credit loss of the financial asset over its lifetime lifetime expected losses will be recognised as an additional provision.
As a result of the changes to impairment rules, IFRS 9 will result in an increase in subjectivity as provisions will be based on forward-looking, probability-weighted information that is continuously monitored and incorporated over the life of the financial asset.
This is in contrast to impairment recognition that is based on credit events that have already occurred under IAS 39.
IFRS 9 is expected to result in an increase in the overall level of impairment allowances, due to the likelihood that there will be a larger population of financial assets to which lifetime expected losses applies as compared to the population of financial assets for which credit events have already occurred under IAS 39.
Hedge accounting IFRS 9 also incorporates new hedge accounting rules that intend to align hedge accounting with risk management practices.
Generally, some restrictions under current rules have been removed and a greater variety of hedging instruments and hedged items become available for hedge accounting.
IFRS 9 allows the deferral of the requirements relating to hedge accounting, permitting continuation with IAS 39 principles until the IASBs macro-hedging project is completed, so as to ensure that reporting entities do not have to comply with interim measures before macro-hedging rules are finalised.
The Group, like most financial institutions, is considering adopting the deferral option.
Accordingly, the new hedging model is not expected to have a significant impact on the micro-hedge accounting of the Group.
Effective date IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 9 which is expected to have the largest impact on the Groups banking operations.
The standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which specifies how and when revenue is recognised, but does not impact income recognition related to financial instruments in scope of IFRS 9 or IAS 39.
IFRS 15 replaces several other IFRS standards and interpretations that currently govern revenue recognition under IFRS and provides a single, principles-based five-step model to be applied to all contracts with customers.
The standard also requires entities to provide users of financial statements with more informative and relevant disclosures.
The implementation of the standard will primarily impact the Groups asset management business.
The treatment of revenue relating to financial instruments and insurance contracts will be dealt with according to the specific standard.
Effective date IFRS 15 will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 15.
IFRS 16 Leases The IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases in January 2016.
IFRS 16 sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract, i. e. the customer lessee and the supplier lessor.
IFRS 16 replaces the previous leases standard, IAS 17 Leases, and related Interpretations.
The Group as lessee IFRS 16 eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases as is required by IAS 17 and, instead, introduces a single lessee accounting model.
Applying that model, a lessee is required to recognise: a assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value: and b depreciation of lease assets separately from interest on lease liabilities in the income statement.
The Group as lessor IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17.
Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as operating leases or finance leases, and to account for those two types of leases differently.
The most significant effect of the new requirements in IFRS 16 will be an increase in lease assets and financial liabilities.
The Group is in the process of quantifying the aforementioned increase in lease assets and financial liabilities.
Effective date IFRS 16 will be effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
Early application is permitted for companies that also apply IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
