Financials 168 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2015 A: Significant accounting policies A1: Basis of preparation Statement of compliance Old Mutual plc the Company is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates and joint ventures other than those held by life assurance funds which are accounted for as investments at fair value through profit or loss.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Both the Parent Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
On publishing the Parent Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
The accounting policies adopted by the Company and Group, unless otherwise stated, have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, financial assets and liabilities designated as fair value through profit or loss or as available-for-sale, owner-occupied property and investment property, cash-settled share based payments, pension scheme assets and insurance and investment contract liabilities.
Assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of the previous carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell.
The Parent Company financial statements are prepared in accordance with these accounting policies, other than for investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates, which are stated at cost less impairments in accordance with IAS 27.
The Company and Group financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis which the directors believe to be appropriate, having taken into consideration the points as set out in the Directors Report in the section headed Going Concern.
The Group has prepared the financial statements in accordance with its detailed accounting policies which can be found at http: reports2015.
The significant accounting policies are contained in the financial statements and are included in the specific notes to which they relate.
The accounting policies on financial assets and liabilities are included in note L. Judgements made by the directors in the application of these accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements, and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year, are discussed in note A3.
Accounting policy elections The following significant accounting policy elections have been made by the Group: Property and equipment Land and buildings are stated at revalued amounts.
Revaluation surpluses are recognised directly in equity, through other comprehensive income.
Investment in venture capital divisions In venture capital divisions and insurance funds, the Group has elected to carry associate and and insurance funds joint venture entities at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial instruments The Group has elected to designate certain fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss to reduce the accounting mismatch.
Regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised using trade date accounting.
Investment properties The Group has elected to recognise all investment properties at fair value, with changes in fair value being recognised in profit and loss for the year.
Investments in subsidiaries, associate The Group has elected to recognise these investments at cost in the Company financial companies and joint arrangements statements.
Translation of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated from their respective functional currencies into the Groups presentation currency using the year-end exchange rates, and their income and expenses using the average exchange rates for the year.
Other than in respect of cumulative translation gains and losses up to 1 January 2004, cumulative unrealised gains or losses resulting from translation of functional currencies to the presentation currency are included as a separate component of shareholders equity.
To the extent that these gains and losses are effectively hedged, the cumulative effect of such gains and losses arising on the hedging instruments are also included in that component of shareholders equity.
Upon the disposal of subsidiaries the cumulative amount of exchange differences deferred in shareholders equity, net of attributable amounts in relation to net investments, is recognised in profit or loss.
Cumulative translation gains and losses up to 1 January 2004, being the effective date of the Groups conversion to IFRS, were reset to zero.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
