ShAREhOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE The Companys investment objective is to provide Shareholders with an attractive level of dividend income and capital growth through exposure to investments in alternative finance and related instruments.
INVESTMENT POLICY The Companys investment policy was amended pursuant to a resolution passed at a general meeting held on 15 June 2015 in order to provide increased flexibility for the investment and management of the Companys assets.
The new investment policy as adopted at that meeting is as follows: The Company invests in consumer loans, SME loans, corporate loans, and advances and loans against corporate trade receivables and other assets, which have been originated via Platforms.
The Company may also invest in facilities, securities or other interests backed by a portfolio of any of the aforementioned loans, assets or receivables all of the foregoing, Credit Assets.
The Company will typically seek to invest in Credit Assets with targeted net annualised returns of 5 to 15 per cent.
The Company purchases Credit Assets directly via Platforms and also invests in Credit Assets indirectly via other investment funds including those managed by the Investment Manager, the Sub-Manager or their affiliates that it deems suitable with a view to enhancing Shareholder returns and providing diversification of the Companys assets.
The Company will generally only seek to invest via other investment funds where these enable investments in Credit Assets from Platforms that the Company either cannot gain direct access to or could only gain direct access to on less favourable terms than an investment via another investment fund.
The Companys investments in Credit Assets may be made through subsidiaries of the Company.
The Company may also invest in aggregate up to 10 per cent.
of Gross Assets at the time of investment in the listed or unlisted securities issued by one or more Platforms.
This restriction shall not apply to any consideration paid by the Company for the issue to it of any convertible securities by a Platform.
however, it will apply to any consideration payable by the Company at the time of exercise of any such convertible securities or any warrants issued by a Platform.
The Company invests across various Platforms, asset classes, geographies primarily US and Europe and credit risk bands in order to ensure diversification and to seek to mitigate concentration risks.
The following investment limits and restrictions apply to the Company, to ensure that the diversification of the Companys portfolio is maintained and that concentration risk is limited: Platform restrictions The Company will not invest more than 33 per cent.
of Gross Assets via any single Platform.
This limit may be increased to 66 per cent.
of Gross Assets via any single Platform, provided that where this limit is so increased in respect of any Platform the Company does not invest an amount which is greater than 25 per cent.
by value of the total loan origination of the preceding calendar year through such Platform.
Asset class and geographic restrictions No single loan acquired by the Company will have an Expected Average Life of greater than 5 years.
No single trade receivable asset acquired by the Company will be for a term longer than 180 days.
The Company will not invest more than 20 per cent.
of Gross Assets, at the time of investment, via any single investment fund investing in Credit Assets.
The Company will not invest, in aggregate, more than 60 per cent.
of Gross Assets, at the time of investment, in other investment funds that invest in Credit Assets.
The Company will not invest more than 10 per cent.
of its Gross Assets, at the time of investment, in other listed closed-ended investment funds, whether managed by the Investment Manager or not, except that this restriction shall not apply to investments in listed closedended investment funds which themselves have stated investment policies to invest no more than 15 per cent.
of their gross assets in other listed closed-ended investment funds.
P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 83 ShAREhOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED The following apply, in each case at the time of investment by the Company, to both Credit Assets acquired by the Company directly and on a look-through basis to any Credit Assets held by another investment fund in which the Company invests proportionate to the percentage interest the Company has in such investment fund.
It is intended that: No single consumer loan shall exceed 0.25 per cent.
No single SME loan shall exceed 5.0 per cent.
No single advance or loan against a trade receivable asset shall exceed 5.0 per cent.
No single corporate loan shall exceed 5 per cent.
No single facility, security or other interest backed by a portfolio of loans, assets or receivables excluding any borrowing ring-fenced within any SPV which would be without recourse to the Company shall exceed 20 per cent.
For illustrative purposes only, if the Company acquires a 10 per cent.
interest in another investment fund which invests in Credit Assets, at the time of investment in that other investment fund, no single consumer loan held by that investment fund may exceed 2.5 per cent.
The following restrictions apply to both Credit Assets acquired by the Company directly and on a lookthrough basis to any Credit Assets held by another investment fund in which the Company invests proportionate to the percentage interest the Company has in such investment fund : At least 10 per cent.
of Gross Assets will be maintained in consumer Credit Assets, not more than 50 per cent.
of Gross Assets will be maintained in SME Credit Assets and not more than 50 per cent.
of Gross Assets will be maintained in trade receivable assets.
The Company will maintain at least 10 per cent.
of Gross Assets in Credit Assets in Europe and at least 10 per cent.
of Gross Assets in Credit Assets in the United States.
Other restrictions The Company may invest in cash, cash equivalents and fixed income instruments for cash management purposes and with a view to enhancing returns to Shareholders or mitigating credit exposure.
however, the Company will only invest in fixed income instruments of investment grade.
The Company will not invest in Collateralised Debt Obligations CDOs.
Borrowing policy Borrowings may be employed at the level of the Company and at the level of any investee entity including, without limitation, any other investment fund in which the Company invests or any special purpose vehicle SPV that may be established by the Company in connection with obtaining leverage against any of its assets or any issuer vehicle of facilities, securities or other interests backed by a portfolio of Credit Assets.
The aggregate leverage of the Company and any investee entity on a look-through basis, proportionate to the percentage interest the Company retains in the most junior tranche of such investee entity shall not exceed 1.5 times Net Asset Value.
The Company may seek to securitise portfolios of Credit Assets and may establish one or more SPVs in connection with any suchsecuritisation.
84 P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 ShAREhOLDER INFORMATION The Company may also use SPVs in connection with obtaining leverage against Credit Assets to seek to protect the levered portfolio from group level bankruptcy or financing risks.
The Company may also, in connection with seeking such leverage or securitising its loans, seek to assign existing assets to one or more SPVs and or seek to acquire loans using an SPV.
The Company will ensure that any SPV used by it to acquire or receive by way of assignment or otherwise any loans to UK consumers shall first obtain any required authorisation from the FCA for consumer credit business.
No material change will be made to the investment policy without the approval of Shareholders by ordinary resolution.
SHARE REGISTER ENQUIRIES The registers for the ordinary and C shares are maintained by Capita Asset Services.
In the event of queries regarding your holding, please contact the Registrar by telephone on 0871 664 0300 calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone company's access charge.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open between 09:00-17:30, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
If calling from overseas please use the following number: 44 20 3728 5000.
Similarly you can email shareholder.
Changes in name or address must be notified in writing to the Registrar: Shareholder Services, Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS Communications with shareholders are mailed to the last address held on the share register.
Any change or amendment should be notified to Capita Registrars at the address given above, under the signature of the registered holder.
SHARE CAPITAL AND NET ASSET VALUE INFORMATION Ordinary 0.01 Shares 46,754,919 C 0.10 Shares 40,000,000 SEDOL Number BLP57Y9 SEDOL Number BYRY7J0 ISIN Number GB00BLP57Y95 ISIN Number GB00BYRY7J03 The Company releases its net asset value per share to the London Stock Exchange monthly.
SHARE PRICES The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
ANNUAL AND HALF-YEARLY REPORTS Copies of the Annual and half-Yearly Reports are available from the Secretary on telephone 44 0 207 204 7573 and are available on the Companys website www.
ASSOCIATION OF INVESTMENT COMPANIES The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 85 ShAREhOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED PROVISIONAL FINANCIAL CALENDAR March 2016 Payment of interim dividend to 31 December 2015 April 2016 Announcement of annual results May 2016 Posting of Annual Report 9 June 2016 Annual General Meeting May 2016 Payment of interim dividend to 31 March 2016 30 June 2016 half-year End August 2016 Announcement of half-yearly results August 2016 Payment of interim dividend to 30 June 2016 November 2016 Payment of interim dividend to 30 September 2016 31 December 2016 Year End DIVIDENDS Shareholders who wish to have dividends paid directly into a bank account rather than by cheque to their registered address can complete a mandate from for the purpose.
Mandate forms may be obtained from Capita Asset Services, The Registry, Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
The Company operates the BACS system for the payment of dividends.
Where dividends are paid directly into shareholders bank accounts, dividend tax vouchers are sent to shareholders registered addresses.
DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN DRIP A DRIP service is provided by Capita Asset Services a trading name of Capita IRG Trustees Ltd.
The DRIP allows eligible shareholders to use the whole of their cash dividend to buy additional shares in the Company, thereby increasing their shareholding.
Additional information, including details of how to sign up, can be obtained from the Companys website at www.
com and from Capita Asset Services: telephone within the UK 0371 664 0381 0300 calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary byprovider.
Lines are open between 09:00-17:30, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales or email us at shares@capita.
86 P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
