RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS a The Group Mr A K Fletcher, an independent non-executive director of the Company, is a director of Paragon Pension Plan Trustees Limited, which acts as the corporate trustee of the Paragon Pension Plan the Plan.
Mr Fletcher was appointed a trustee of the Plan on 27 May 2010, and a director of Paragon Pension Trustees Limited on 7 November 2011.
The Plan moved to corporate trusteeship in the first quarter of 2013 at which point all individuals ceased to be trustees of the Plan on their own account.
In respect of this appointment he was paid 10,000 in the year ended 30 September 2015 by Paragon Finance PLC, the sponsoring company of the plan 2014: 10,000.
The Plan is a related party of the Group.
Transactions with the Plan are described in note 52.
The Group had no other transactions with related parties other than the key management compensation disclosed in note 15. b The Company During the year the parent company entered into transactions with its subsidiaries, which are related parties.
Management services were provided to the Company by one of its subsidiaries and the Company granted awards under the share based payment arrangements described in note 16 to employees of subsidiary undertakings.
The Company also issued shares to the trustees of its ESOP trusts, as described in note 39.
Details of the Companys investments in subsidiaries and the income derived from them are shown in notes 27 and 64.
Outstanding current account balances with subsidiaries are shown in notes 36 and 55.
During the year the Company incurred interest costs of 9.4m in respect of borrowings from its subsidiaries 2014: 7.6m.
ACQUISITION After the year end, on 3 November 2015 the Group acquired the entire share capital of Five Arrows Leasing Group Limited from Rothschild & Co. Five Arrows Leasing Group Limited is the parent company of a group of companies Five Arrows Leasing Group providing a range of asset finance products to UK SMEs, including equipment, vehicle and construction equipment finance and is also a provider of lease servicing.
The acquisition allows the Group to diversify its range of both products and the markets it serves within the financial services sector.
The Group has acquired 100% of the voting equity interests in Five Arrows Leasing Group Limited and the consideration was satisfied entirely in cash.
Cash transferred on completion was 308.2m, 117.0m in respect of equity and 191.2m to settle existing debt owed by Five Arrows Leasing Group to the vendor.
There are no contingent consideration arrangements.
Costs of the acquisition will be included in operating expenses for the year ending 30 September 2016.
The principal operating companies of the Five Arrows Leasing Group are listed below.
Company Principal Activity Five Arrows Leasing Group Limited Holding company Dash Commercial Finance Limited Asset finance Five Arrows Business Finance PLC Asset finance Five Arrows Media Finance Limited Asset finance Five Arrows Outsourcing Solutions Limited Portfolio administration Specialist Fleet Services Limited Asset finance and contract hire The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 229 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS
