FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Fair values have been determined for all derivatives, listed securities and any other financial assets and liabilities for which an active and liquid market exists.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair values in the accounts.
The Group uses a number of techniques to determine the fair values of its derivative assets and liabilities, for which observable prices in active markets are not available.
These are principally present value calculations based on estimated future cash flows arising from the instruments, discounted using a risk adjusted interest rate.
The principal inputs to these valuation models are LIBOR benchmark interest rates for the currencies in which the instruments are denominated, sterling, euros and dollars.
The cross currency basis swaps have a notional principal related to the outstanding currency borrowings and therefore the estimated rate of repayment of these notes also affects the valuation of the swaps.
In order to determine the fair values the management applies valuation adjustments to observed data where that data would not fully reflect the attributes of the instrument being valued, such as particular contractual features or the identity of the counterparty.
The management reviews the models used on an ongoing basis to ensure that the valuations produced are reasonable and reflect all relevant factors.
For assets and liabilities carried at fair value, IFRS 7 requires that the measurements should be classified using a fair value hierarchy reflecting the inputs used, and defines three levels.
Level 1 measurements are unadjusted market prices, level 2 measurements are derived from observable data, such as market prices or rates, while level 3 measurements rely on significant inputs which are not derived from observable data.
As described above the valuations of the Groups derivatives are based on market information and they are therefore classified as level 2 measurements.
Details of these assets are given in note 35.
The short term investments described in note 37 are freely traded securities for which a market price quotation is available and are classified as level 1 measurements.
The Group had no financial assets or liabilities in the year ended 30 September 2015 or the year ended 30 September 2014 valued using level 3 measurements.
The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, bank loans and overdrafts and asset backed loan notes, which are carried at amortised cost are considered to be not materially different from their book values.
In arriving at that conclusion market inputs have been considered but because all the assets mature within three months of the year end and the interest rates charged on financial liabilities reset to market rates on a quarterly basis, little difference arises.
While the Groups asset backed loan notes are listed, the quoted prices for an individual note may not be indicative of the fair value of the issue as a whole, due to the specialised nature of the market in such instruments and the limited number of investors participating in it and an adjustment is required.
As these valuation exercises are not wholly market based they are considered to be level 2 measurements.
To assess the likely fair value of the Groups retail deposit liabilities, the directors have considered the estimated cash flows expected to arise based on a mixture of market based inputs, such as rates and pricing and non-market based inputs such as redemption rates.
On this basis they have concluded that the carrying value of these liabilities, determined on the amortised cost basis, is not significantly different from their fair value derived on a discounted cash flow basis.
Given the mixture of observable and non-observable inputs, these are considered to be level 2 measurements.
To assess the likely fair value of the Groups loan assets in the absence of a liquid market, the directors have considered the estimated cash flows expected to arise from the Groups investments in its loans to customers based on a mixture of market based inputs, such as rates and pricing and non-market based inputs such as redemption rates.
On this basis they have concluded that the carrying value of these assets, determined on the amortised cost basis, is not significantly different from the fair value of the assets derived on a discounted cash flow basis.
Given the mixture of observable and non-observable inputs these are considered to be level 2 measurements.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 157 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS
