D2 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 30 September 2015 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION The Paragon Group of Companies PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 with company number 2336032.
The address of the registered office is 51 Homer Road, Solihull, West Midlands, B91 3QJ.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report in section A2.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the currency of the economic environment in which the Group operates.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED REPORTING STANDARDS In the preparation of these financial statements no new reporting standards are being applied for the first time.
a Standards not yet adopted At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following International Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 9 largely replaces the requirements of the existing financial instruments standard, IAS 39: Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
It addresses the areas of recognition, bases of valuation, income recognition methods, impairment and hedging for financial instruments and will become the standard governing the accounting for Groups Loans to Customers, Borrowings and Derivative Financial Assets and Liabilities.
Only the rules relating to the Groups portfolio hedging arrangements will remain subject to IAS 39, though the IASB are also working on this area.
This standard will come into force with effect from the Groups financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2019, if it is endorsed by the European Union EU.
The EU has indicated that endorsement may be expected in the first half of 2016.
Following the publication of the final version of the Standard by the IASB in July 2014, during the year ended 30 September 2015 the Group has begun to assess its potential impact.
The Groups preliminary conclusions are that the effect of the replacement of IAS 39 with IFRS 9 in most areas of accounting will not be significant, as many of the current rules are repeated in broadly similar form in the new standard.
In particular the amortised cost basis of valuation and the related effective interest rate method of income recognition remain largely unchanged, and the revisions to hedging are likely to produce a broadly similar result to the present methodology.
The area where the new standard is likely to have the most significant impact on the Group is in accounting for impaired loans.
In general terms IFRS 9 will require earlier recognition of losses than IAS 39 does, including some element of loss provision from day one of a loan.
It will also require that firms take account of a wider set of indicators to establish when an impairment provision is required.
During the year, the Group commissioned external consultants to conduct an exercise which provided a broad indication of the size of any potential adjustment, identified the most significant areas for the Groups consideration and advised on how the Groups internal IFRS 9 work might be structured.
Following this the Group has begun a project to ensure it is able to comply with the new requirements, including finance, analysis and credit risk personnel.
This project team is sponsored by the Group Finance Director and reports regularly to the Audit Committee.
Work will continue on this project through the year ending 30 September 2016 and a further report on progress will be given in that years Annual Report and Accounts.
PAGE 150 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2015 THE ACCOUNTS
