IFRS 15 will replace the standards currently governing the recognition of that part of the Groups income which does not derive directly from financial assets.
If endorsed by the EU, it will come in to force with effect from the Groups financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2019, but is not expected to have a material impact on its results or financial position.
Other standards and interpretations in issue but not effective do not address matters relevant to the Groups accounting and reporting.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
In the financial years reported upon this means that the financial statements accord also with International Financial Reporting Standards as approved by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The particular policies applied are described below.
a Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as required in the valuation of certain financial instruments which are carried at fair value.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements deal with the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 30 September 2015.
Subsidiaries comprise all those entities over which the Group has control.
The results of businesses acquired are dealt with in the consolidated accounts from the date of acquisition.
In accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements companies owned by charitable trusts into which loans originated by group companies were sold as part of its warehouse and securitisation funding arrangements, where the Group enjoys the benefits of ownership, are treated as subsidiaries.
Similarly, trusts set up to hold shares in conjunction with the Groups employee share ownership arrangements are also treated as subsidiaries.
c Going concern The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The directors reasons for the adoption of this basis are given in the Strategic Report in section A4.
d Goodwill Goodwill arising from the purchase of subsidiary undertakings, representing the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair values of acquired assets, including intangible assets, is held on the balance sheet and reviewed annually to determine whether any impairment has occurred.
Negative goodwill is written off as it arises.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 151 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations to combinations taking place before its transition date to IFRS 1 October 2004.
Therefore any goodwill which was written off to reserves under UK GAAP will not be charged or credited to the profit and loss account on any future disposal of the business to which it relates.
e Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise purchased computer software and other intangible assets acquired in business combinations.
Purchased computer software is capitalised where it has a sufficiently enduring nature and is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is provided in equal instalments at a rate of 25% per annum.
Other intangible assets acquired in business combinations include brands and business networks and are capitalised in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Such assets are stated at attributed cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is provided in equal instalments at a rate of 6.67% per annum.
f Leases Leases are accounted for as operating or finance leases in accordance with IAS 17 Leases.
A finance lease is deemed to be one which transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards of the ownership of the asset concerned.
Any other lease is an operating lease.
Rental income and costs under operating leases are credited or charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period of the leases.
g Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost for property held under a sale and leaseback transaction represented the sale value.
Depreciation is provided on cost in equal annual instalments over the lives of the assets.
The rates of depreciation are as follows: Freehold premises 2% per annum Short leasehold premises over the term of the lease Computer hardware 25% per annum Furniture, fixtures and office equipment 15% per annum Company motor vehicles 25% per annum h Investments in subsidiaries The Companys investments in subsidiary undertakings are valued at cost less provision for impairment.
i Loans to customers Loans to customers are considered to be loans and receivables as defined by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
They are therefore accounted for on the amortised cost basis.
Loans advanced are valued at inception at the initial advance amount, which is the fair value at that time, inclusive of procuration fees paid to brokers or other business providers and less initial fees paid by the customer.
Loans acquired from third parties are initially valued at the purchase consideration paid or payable.
Thereafter all loans to customers are valued at this initial amount less the cumulative amortisation calculated using the Effective Interest Rate EIR method.
The loan balances are then reduced where necessary by a provision for balances which are considered to be impaired.
PAGE 152 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2015 THE ACCOUNTS The EIR method spreads the expected net income arising from a loan over its expected life.
The EIR is that rate of interest which, at inception, exactly discounts the future cash payments and receipts arising from the loan to the initial carrying amount.
j Finance lease receivables Finance lease receivables are included within Loans to Customers at the total amount receivable less interest not yet accrued, unamortised commissions and provision for impairment.
Income from finance lease contracts is accounted for on the actuarial basis.
k Impairment of loans and receivables Loans and receivables are reviewed for indications of possible impairment throughout the year and at each balance sheet date, in accordance with IAS 39.
Where loans exhibit objective evidence of impairment, the carrying value of the loans is reduced to the net present value of their expected future cash flows, including the value of the potential realisation of any security, discounted at the original EIR.
Loans are assessed collectively, grouped by risk characteristics and account is taken of any impairment arising due to events which are believed to have taken place but have not been specifically identified at the balance sheet date.
For financial accounting purposes provisions for impairments of loans to customers are held in an allowance account.
These balances are offset against the gross value of the loan when it is written off on the administration system.
After this point a salvage balance may be held in respect of any further recoveries expected on the loan.
l Investments in structured entities Investments in structured entities are intended to be held to maturity and are therefore accounted for on the amortised cost basis.
The return from such investments is calculated on the EIR basis.
m Amounts owed by or to group companies In the accounts of the Company balances owed by or to other group companies are carried at the current amount outstanding less any provision.
Where balances owing between group companies fall within the definition of either financial assets or financial liabilities given in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation they are classified as Loans and Receivables or Other financial liabilities, respectively.
n Short term investments Short term investments are held as part of the liquidity requirement of Paragon Bank PLC.
As such they are designated as Available for Sale, as defined by IAS 39 - Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and are consequently measured at their fair value which corresponds to their market value at the balance sheet date.
Remeasurement gains and losses are recognised in the income statement within interest receivable.
o Cash and cash equivalents Balances shown as cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise demand deposits and short-term deposits with banks with initial maturities of not more than 90 days.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 153 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS p Own shares Shares in The Paragon Group of Companies PLC held in treasury or by the trustees of the Groups employee share ownership plans are shown on the balance sheet as a deduction in arriving at total equity.
Own shares are stated at cost.
q Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the period and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences.
Temporary differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in financial statements.
Tax relating to items taken directly to equity is also taken directly to equity.
r Retail deposits Retail deposits are carried in the balance sheet on the amortised cost basis.
The initial fair value recognised represents the cash amount received from the customer.
Interest payable to the customer is expensed to the income statement as interest payable over the deposit term on an EIR basis.
s Borrowings Borrowings are carried in the balance sheet on the amortised cost basis.
The initial value recognised includes the principal amount received less any discount on issue or costs of issuance.
Interest and all other costs of the funding are expensed to the income statement as interest payable over the term of the borrowing on an EIR basis.
t Finance lease payables Balances due on the lease arising from the sale and leaseback of a Group property were recognised in creditors at the total amount payable less interest not yet accrued.
Interest was accrued on the actuarial basis.
The profit which arose on the sale and leaseback transaction was held within deferred income and was credited to profit over the lease term on a straight line basis.
u Derivative financial instruments Derivative instruments utilised by the Group comprise currency swap, interest rate swap and interest rate option agreements.
All such instruments are used for hedging purposes to alter the risk profile of the existing underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk management policies.
The Group does not enter into speculative derivative contracts.
All derivatives are carried in the balance sheet at fair value, as assets where the value is positive or as liabilities where the value is negative.
Fair value is based on market prices, where a market exists.
If there is no active market, fair value is calculated using present value models which incorporate assumptions based on market conditions and are consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial instruments.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised in the income statement, except where such amounts are permitted to be taken to equity as part of the accounting for a cash flow hedge.
PAGE 154 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2015 THE ACCOUNTS v Hedging For all hedges, the Group documents, at inception, the relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged items, as well as its risk management strategy and objectives for undertaking the transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging arrangements put in place are considered to be highly effective as defined by IAS 39.
For a fair value hedge, as long as the hedging relationship is deemed highly effective and meets the hedging requirements of IAS 39, any gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in income can be offset against the fair value loss or gain arising from the hedged item for the hedged risk.
For macro hedges hedges of interest rate risk for a portfolio of loan assets or retail deposit liabilities this fair value adjustment is disclosed in the balance sheet alongside the hedged item, for other hedges the adjustment is made to the carrying value of the hedged asset or liability.
Only the net ineffectiveness of the hedge is charged or credited to income.
Where a fair value hedge relationship is terminated, or deemed ineffective, the fair value adjustment is amortised over the remaining term of the underlying item.
Where a derivative is used to hedge the variability of cash flows of an asset or liability, it may be designated as a cash flow hedge so long as this relationship meets the hedging requirements of IAS 39.
For such an instrument the effective portion of the change in the fair value of the derivative is taken initially to equity, with the ineffective part taken to profit or loss.
The amount taken to equity is released to the income statement at the same time as the hedged item affects the income statement.
Where a cash flow hedge relationship is terminated, or deemed ineffective, the amount taken to equity will remain there until the hedged transaction is recognised, or is no longer highly probable.
w Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full on temporary differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as probable that they will be recovered.
As required by IAS 12 Income Taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted to take account of the expected timing of realisation.
x Retirement benefit obligations The expected cost of providing pensions within the funded defined benefit scheme, determined on the basis of annual valuations by professionally qualified actuaries using the projected unit method, is charged to the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and do not form part of the result for the period, being recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets at the balance sheet date.
The expected financing cost of the deficit, as estimated at the beginning of the period is recognised in the result for the period within interest payable.
Any variances against the estimated amount in the year form part of the actuarial gain or loss.
The charge to the income statement for providing pensions under defined contribution pension schemes is equal to the contributions payable to such schemes for the year.
y Revenue The revenue of the Group comprises interest receivable and similar charges and other income.
The accounting policy for the recognition of each element of revenue is described separately within these accounting policies.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 155 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS z Fee and commission income Other income includes administration fees charged to borrowers, which are credited when the related service is performed, fees charged to third parties for account administration services, which are credited as those services are performed, and commissions receivable on the sale of insurances, which are taken to profit at the point at which the Group becomes unconditionally entitled to the income.
aa Share based payments In accordance with IFRS 2 Share based payments, the fair value at the date of grant of awards to be made in respect of options and shares granted under the terms of the Groups various share based employee incentive arrangements is charged to the profit and loss account over the period between the date of grant and the vesting date.
National Insurance on share based payments is accrued over the vesting period, based on the share price at the balance sheet date.
Where the allowable cost of share based awards for tax purposes is greater than the cost determined in accordance with IFRS 2, the tax effect of the excess is taken to reserves.
bb Dividends In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date, dividends payable on ordinary shares are recognised in equity once they are appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Dividends declared after the balance sheet date, but before the authorisation of the financial statements remain within shareholders funds.
cc Foreign currency Foreign currency transactions, assets and liabilities are accounted for in accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
The functional currency of the Group is the pound sterling.
Transactions which are not denominated in sterling are translated into sterling at the spot rate of exchange on the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities which are not denominated in sterling are translated at the closing rate on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on retranslation are included in interest payable or interest receivable depending on whether the underlying instrument is an asset or a liability, except where deferred in equity in accordance with the cash flow hedging provisions of IAS 39. dd Segmental reporting The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described above for the Group as a whole.
Costs attributed to each segment represent the direct costs incurred by the segment operations and an allocation of the costs of areas of the business which serve all segments.
Such allocations are weighted by the value of loan assets in each segment, adjusted for the relative effort involved in the administration of each asset class.
PAGE 156 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2015 THE ACCOUNTS
