CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Certain of the balances reported in the financial statements are based wholly or in part on estimates or assumptions made by the directors.
There is, therefore, a potential risk that they may be subject to change in future periods.
The most significant of these are: a Impairment losses on loans to customers Impairment losses on loans are calculated based on statistical models.
The key assumptions relate to estimates of future cash flows from customers accounts, their timing and, for secured accounts, the expected proceeds from the realisation of the property.
These key assumptions are based on observed data from historical patterns and are updated regularly based on new data as it becomes available.
In addition the directors consider how appropriate past trends and patterns might be in the current economic situation and make any adjustments they believe are necessary to reflect current conditions.
The accuracy of the impairment calculations would therefore be affected by unexpected changes to the economic situation, variances between the models used and the actual results, or assumptions which differ from the actual outcomes.
In particular, if the impact of economic factors such as employment levels on customers is worse than is implicit in the model then the number of accounts requiring provision might be greater than suggested by the model, while falls in house prices, over and above any assumed by the model might increase the provision required in respect of accounts currently provided.
b Effective interest rates In order to determine the effective interest rate applicable to loans an estimate must be made of the expected life of each loan and hence the cash flows relating thereto.
For purchased accounts this will involve estimating the likely future performance of the accounts at the time of acquisition.
These estimates are based on historical data and reviewed regularly.
For purchased accounts historical data obtained from the vendor will be examined.
The accuracy of the effective interest rate applied would therefore be compromised by any differences between actual borrower behaviour and that predicted.
c Fair values Where financial assets and liabilities are carried at fair value, in the majority of cases this can be derived by reference to quoted market prices.
Where such a quoted price is not available the valuation is based on cash flow models based, where possible, on independently sourced parameters.
The accuracy of the calculation would therefore be affected by unexpected market movements or other variances in the operation of the models or the assumptions used.
d Retirement benefits The present value of the retirement benefit obligation is derived from an actuarial calculation which rests on a number of assumptions.
Where actual conditions differ from those assumed the ultimate value of the obligation would be different.
PAGE 158 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2015 THE ACCOUNTS
