PIGIT pp17 35 PIGIT pp17 35 05 06 2015 11:40 Page 35 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT in respect of the preparation of the Annual Financial Report The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual financial report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under the law the Directors have elected to prepare financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, a Directors Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
In so far as each of the Directors is aware: there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with section 418 of CA 2006.
The Directors of the Company each confirm to the best of their knowledge, that: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: and this annual financial report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors consider that the annual financial report taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Bill Alexander Chairman 2 June 2015 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 35
