PIGIT pp59 68 PIGIT pp59 68 05 06 2015 11:39 Page 65 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS GLOSSARY OF TERMS Benchmark A market index, which averages the performance of companies in any sector, giving a good indication of any rises or falls in the market.
The benchmark used in these accounts is the FTSE All-Share Index.
Discount The amount by which the mid-market share price of an investment trust is lower than the diluted net asset value per share.
The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
Gearing The gearing percentage reflects the amount of borrowings that a company has invested.
This figure indicates the extra amount by which shareholders funds would move if a companys investments were to rise or fall.
A positive percentage indicates the extent to which shareholders funds are geared: a nil gearing percentage, or nil, shows a company is ungeared.
A negative percentage indicates that the company is not fully invested.
There are several methods of calculating gearing and the following has been used in this report: Gross Gearing This reflects the amount of gross borrowings in use by a company and takes no account of any cash balances.
It is based on gross borrowings as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Net Gearing This reflects the amount of net borrowings invested, ie borrowings less cash and UK government bonds.
It is based on net borrowings as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Leverage Leverage, for the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, is not synonymous with gearing as defined above.
In addition to borrowings, it encompasses anything that increases the Companys exposure, including foreign currency and exposure gained through derivatives.
Leverage expresses the Companys exposure as a ratio of the Companys net asset value.
Two methods of calculating such exposure are set out in the AIFMD, gross and commitment.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the aggregate of all the Companys exposures other than cash balances held in base currency and without any offsetting.
The commitment method takes into account hedging and other netting arrangements designed to limit risk, offsetting them against the underlying exposure.
Leverage of 100% indicates that a company has no exposure in excess of net asset value.
Market Capitalisation Is calculated by multiplying the stockmarket price of an ordinary share by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Net Asset Value Basic Net Asset Value Also described as Shareholders funds, the net asset value is the value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this purpose include current and long-term liabilities.
The net asset value per share is calculated by dividing the net asset value by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Diluted Net Asset Value The diluted net asset value is the net asset value per share that would arise if the subscription shares were converted.
It is calculated by dividing the net asset value by the number of shares that would be in issue if all the subscriptions shares were converted to ordinary shares.
Where the diluted net asset value per ordinary share is greater than the basic net asset per ordinary share, there is no dilutive effect.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 65
