PIGIT pp59 68 PIGIT pp59 68 05 06 2015 11:39 Page 66 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS GLOSSARY OF TERMS continued Net Cash This reflects the Companys net exposure to cash and cash equivalents expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds after any offset against its gearing.
Ongoing Charges Ratio This is calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC as follows: the annualised ongoing charges, including those charged to capital but excluding interest, incurred by the Company, expressed as a percentage of the average undiluted net asset value at market value reported in the period.
Total Return The combined effect of any dividends paid, together with the rise or fall in the share price or NAV.
Performance comparisons can then be made between companies with different dividend policies.
Any dividends after tax received by a shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in either additional shares ie share price total return or in the Companys assets ie NAV total return.
ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS DIRECTIVE DISCLOSURE Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM and the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the AIFMD, the Directive Invesco Fund Managers Limited IFML was authorised as an AIFM, and appointed by the Company as such, with effect from 22 July 2014.
IFML is an associated company of Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML, the previous Manager, and IAML continues to manage the Companys investments under delegated authority from IFML.
In accordance with the Directive, the Company qualifies as an Alternative Investment Fund AIF.
Amongst other things, the AIFMD requires certain information to be provided to prospective investors.
This information can be found in the Companys section of the Managers website www.
co. uk pigit in a downloadable document entitled AIFMD Investor Information.
There has been only one material change to this information since its publication in July 2014, being the changed management fee arrangements outlined in the Chairman's Statement and on page 26.
Any information requiring immediate disclosure pursuant to the Directive will be disclosed through a primary information provider.
In addition, the Directive requires information in relation to the remuneration of the Companys AIFM, IFML, and the Companys leverage both gross and commitment see Glossary on page 65 and to be made available to investors.
Accordingly: the AIFM remuneration policy is available from the Companys company secretary, on request see contact details on page 64 and the numerical remuneration disclosures in respect of the AIFMs first relevant reporting period year ended 31 December 2015 will be made available in due course: and the leverage calculated for the Company at the year end was 115.7% for gross and 115.7% for commitment.
The limits the AIFM has set for the Company are 250% and 200%, respectively.
66 PIGIT pp59 68 PIGIT pp59 68 05 06 2015 11:39 Page 67 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS The Manager of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc is Invesco Fund Managers Limited.
Invesco Fund Managers Limited is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Invesco Limited and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Invesco Perpetual is a business name of Invesco Fund Managers Limited.
Invesco is one of the largest independent global investment management firms, with assets under management of nearly US$812 billion.
We aim to provide the highest returns available from markets, through active management, but in a controlled manner, conscious of the risks involved and within our clients objectives.
Assets under management as at 30 April 2015.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 67 PIGIT pp59 68 PIGIT pp59 68 05 06 2015 11:39 Page 68 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS INVESTMENT COMPANIES MANAGED BY INVESCO PERPETUAL Investing for Income, Income Growth and Capital Growth from equities and fixed interest securities City Merchants High Yield Trust Limited Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc UK Equity Portfolio A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to Aims to generate long-term capital and income growth with generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed real growth in dividends from investment, primarily in the UK income instruments.
The Company may use bank borrowings.
The portfolio may use bank borrowings.
Invesco Income Growth Trust plc Keystone Investment Trust plc Aims to produce income and capital growth superior to that Aims to provide shareholders with long-term growth of of the UK stock market and dividends paid quarterly that, over capital mainly from UK investments.
The Company has time, grow at above the rate of inflation.
The Company may debenture stocks in issue.
Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Enhanced Income Limited Aims to provide shareholders with capital growth and real growth in dividends over the medium to longer term from a A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to provide a high level of income, paid gross to UK investors, whilst portfolio of securities listed mainly in the UK equity and fixed interest markets.
The Company has a debenture stock in issue seeking to maximise total return through investing, primarily in a diversified portfolio of high-yielding corporate and and, in addition, may use bank borrowings.
The Company seeks to balance the The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc attraction of high-yield securities with the need for protection of Invests primarily in UK securities with the long-term objective capital and to manage volatility.
The Company uses repo of achieving: financing to enhance returns.
1. an increase of the Net Asset Value per share by more than Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Managed Liquidity the growth in the FTSE All Share Index: and Portfolio 2. growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK Aims to generate income from a variety of fixed income inflation.
instruments combined with a high degree of security.
Income will reduce during periods of very low interest rates.
The Company has a debenture stock in issue and may use bank borrowings.
Investing in Smaller Companies Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc Aims to achieve long-term total returns for the Companys of small to medium sized UK-quoted companies.
The shareholders primarily by investment in a broad cross-section Company may use bank borrowings.
Investing Internationally Invesco Asia Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Global Equity Income Portfolio Aims to provide long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of Asian and Australasian securities.
The Aims to provide an attractive and growing level of income Company aims to achieve growth in its net asset value in return and capital appreciation over the long term, excess of the MSCI AC Asia Ex Japan Index, in sterling terms.
predominantly through investment in a diversified portfolio The Company may use bank borrowings.
Investing for Total Returns Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Balanced Risk Portfolio Aims to provide shareholders with an attractive total return in The portfolio is constructed so as to balance risk, is long-only, using mainly transparently-priced exchange-traded futures differing economic and inflationary environments and with low correlation to equity and bond market indices by gaining contracts and other derivative instruments to gain such exposure and to provide leverage.
exposure to three asset classes: debt securities, equities and commodities.
Investing in Multiple Asset Classes Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc A choice of four investment policies and objectives, each UK Equity Portfolio intended to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns from Global Equity Income Portfolio segregated portfolios, with the ability to switch between Managed Liquidity Portfolio them, four times a year, free from capital gains tax liability.
Balanced Risk Portfolio Dividends are paid quarterly, apart from Balanced Risk which will not normally pay dividends.
Please contact our Investor Services Team on 0800 085 8677 if you would like more information about the investment trusts or other specialist funds listed above.
Further details are also available on the following website: www.
Linkway Financial Printers Typeset and Printed in London UK 16441 68
