PIGIT pp59 68 PIGIT pp59 68 05 06 2015 11:39 Page 62 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued 7.
Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Any shareholder attending the AGM has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the AGM or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the AGM that the question be answered.
You may not use any electronic address any address or number for the purposes of sending or receiving documents or information by electronic means provided in this Notice or in any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
As at 2 June 2015 being the last practicable day prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 236,874,251 ordinary shares of 10p each carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at that date are 236,874,251.
A copy of this notice contained within the 2015 annual financial report, and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by shareholders of the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys annual accounts and reports including the Independent Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2014: or ii any circumstance connected with the auditor of the Company appointed for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2014 ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual financial reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Act in each case that the shareholders propose to raise at the relevant AGM.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION At the close of business on 31 May 2005, the Subscription Shares middle market prices of the Companys ordinary Base cost for the calculation of taxation on shares and subscription shares were as follows: capital gains Ordinary Shares 190.25p Trading in the subscription shares issued by the Subscription Shares 34.50p Company to qualifying shareholders commenced on 31 May 2005.
Further to the details outlined Accordingly, an individual investor who, on 27 May in the prospectus, for the purposes of UK 2005, held ten ordinary shares or a multiple taxation, the issue of subscription shares is thereof would have received a bonus issue of one treated as a reorganisation of the Companys subscription share or the relevant multiple thereof share capital.
Whereas such reorganisations do and would apportion the base cost of such holding not trigger a chargeable disposal for the purposes 98.22% to the ten ordinary shares and 1.78% to of capital gains, they do require shareholders to the subscription shares.
reallocate the base costs of their ordinary shares If you need tax advice, you should contact a between ordinary shares and subscription shares qualified tax professional.
acquired under the bonus issue.
62 READING ROAD THAMESIDE W A R G R A READING ROAD V E R O A D A321.
R B Y PIGIT pp59 68 PIGIT pp59 68 05 06 2015 11:39 Page 63 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS The shares of Perpetual Income and Growth Managers Website Investment Trust plc the Company are quoted The Managers website can be located at on the London Stock Exchange.
co. uk investmenttrusts The contents of websites referred to in this Savings Plan and ISA document, or accessible from links within those The Company is a member of the Invesco websites, are not incorporated into, nor do they Perpetual Investment Trust Savings Scheme and form part of this annual financial report.
the Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA.
The Companys Ordinary shares can be purchased Financial Calendar and sold via these two schemes.
The Company publishes information according to Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings the following calendar: Scheme Announcements The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings Annual Financial Report June Scheme allows an investor to make monthly Half-yearly Financial Report November purchases from 20 per month or through lump Annual General Meeting July sum investments of 500 or above in the shares of the Company in a straightforward and low Year End 31 March cost way.
Ordinary Share Dividend Timetable 1st interim payable September Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA 2nd interim payable December The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA allows 3rd interim payable March investments up to the current ISA limit.
For the 4th interim payable June tax year 2015 16 is 15,240.
Investors can also Senior Secured Notes choose to make lump sum investments from Interest payable on 4.37% 500, or regular investments from 20 per month.
Notes 2029 May November For full details of these schemes please contact Invesco Perpetuals Investor Services team free Location of Annual General Meeting on 0800 085 8677.
AGM The AGM will be held at Perpetual Park, Net Asset Value NAV Publication Perpetual Park Drive, Henley-on-Thames, The NAV of the Company is calculated by the Oxfordshire RG9 1HH on Friday, 10 July 2015 Manager on a daily basis and is notified to the at 11am.
Stock Exchange on the following business day.
It is published daily in the newspapers detailed below.
HENLEY-ON-THAMES Share Price Listings The price of your shares can be found in The Financial Times, Daily Telegraph, The Times and The Evening Standard.
In addition, share price information can be found using the PLI ticker code and on the Companys section of the Managers website at www.
Invesco Perpetual PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 63 E L N E H HART ST ST. MARKS ROAD
