KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2130 AGM 3133 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the 34th Annual General a general meeting, save that the Company may Meeting AGM of Personal Assets Trust Public at any time prior to the expiry of this authority Limited Company will be held at The Roxburghe make an offer or enter into an agreement which Hotel, 38 Charlotte Square, Edinburgh, on Thursday would or might require Securities to be allotted 23 July 2015 at 11.00am for the following purposes: or granted after the expiry of such authority and the Directors shall be entitled to allot or grant To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Securities in pursuance of such an offer or resolutions which will be proposed as Ordinary agreement as if such authority had not expired.
Resolutions: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following 1.
That the Report and Accounts for the year to resolutions which will be proposed as Special 30 April 2015 be received.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the 10.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights year to 30 April 2015 be approved.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 9 3.
That Hamish Buchan, who retires from office above, and in substitution for any existing power annually, be re-elected as a Director.
but without prejudice to the exercise of any such 4.
That Gordon Neilly, who retires from office power prior to the date hereof, the Directors of annually, be re-elected as a Director.
the Company be and are hereby generally empowered, pursuant to Section 570 of the 5.
That Stuart Paul, who retires from office Companies Act 2006 the Act, to allot equity annually, be re-elected as a Director.
securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act, 6.
That Frank Rushbrook, who retires from office including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or annually, be re-elected as a Director.
to convert securities into, Ordinary shares in the Company for cash either pursuant to the 7.
That Robin Angus, who retires from office authority given by Resolution 9 above or by way annually, be re-elected as a Director.
of a sale of Treasury shares as defined in Section 8.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as 724 of the Act as if Section 561 1 of the Act did Auditors and that the Directors be authorised to not apply to any such allotment of equity determine their remuneration.
securities, provided that this power: 9.
Authority to allot shares a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company That, in substitution for any existing authority, after the passing of this resolution or on the but without prejudice to the exercise of any such expiry of 15 months from the passing of authority prior to the date hereof, the Directors this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save of the Company be and are hereby generally and that the Company may, before such expiry, unconditionally authorised in accordance with make an offer or agreement which would Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the or might require equity securities to be Act to exercise all the powers of the Company allotted after such expiry and the Directors to allot shares in the Company and to grant may allot equity securities in pursuance of rights to subscribe for or to convert any security any such offer or agreement as if the power into shares in the Company Securities conferred hereby had not expired: and provided that such authority shall be limited to the allotment of shares and the grant of rights in b shall be limited to the allotment of equity respect of shares with an aggregate nominal securities up to an aggregate nominal value value of up to 2,184,837.50, such authority to of 2,184,837.50, being 10 per cent.
of the expire at the conclusion of the next Annual nominal value of the issued share capital of General Meeting of the Company after the the Company as at 5 June 2015. passing of this resolution or on the expiry of 15 This power applies in relation to a sale of shares months from the passing of this resolution, which is an allotment of equity securities by whichever is the earlier, unless previously virtue of Section 560 2 of the Act as if in the first revoked, varied or extended by the Company in Page 31 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED paragraph of this resolution the words subject ii the higher of the last independent to the passing of Resolution 9 above were trade and the highest current omitted.
independent bid on the London Stock Exchange: and 11.
Share buy-back authority d unless previously varied, revoked or That, in substitution for any existing authority renewed by the Company in a general but without prejudice to the exercise of any such meeting, the authority hereby conferred authority prior to the date hereof, the Company shall expire at the conclusion of the be and is hereby generally and unconditionally Companys next Annual General Meeting authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with or on 31 October 2016, whichever is the Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the earlier, save that the Company may, prior Act, to make market purchases within the to such expiry, enter into a contract to meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of fully purchase Ordinary shares under such paid Ordinary shares of 12.50 each in the authority which will or might be completed capital of the Company Ordinary shares or executed wholly or partly after the either for retention as Treasury shares for future expiration of such authority and may make reissue, resale, transfer or for cancellation, a purchase of Ordinary shares pursuant to provided that: any such contract.
a the maximum aggregate number of 12.
That a General Meeting of the Company other Ordinary shares hereby authorised to be than an Annual General Meeting may be called purchased is 262,005: on not less than 14 clear days notice provided b the minimum price excluding expenses that this authority shall expire at the conclusion which may be paid for each Ordinary share of the next Annual General Meeting of the is 12.50: Company.
c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for each Ordinary share By Order of the Board shall not be greater than the higher of: i 5 per cent.
above the average middle Steven K Davidson market quotation on the London Secretary Stock Exchange of an Ordinary share 10 St Colme Street over the five business days Edinburgh EH3 6AA immediately preceding the date of purchase: and 5 June 2015 Notes 1.
A shareholder who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at 3.
Only those shareholders having their names entered on the the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to Companys share register not later than 6.00 pm on 21 July attend, speak and vote on his her behalf.
Such proxy need 2015 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 6.00 pm on the day not also be a shareholder of the Company.
If appointing which is 2 days excluding non working days prior to the more than one proxy, each proxy must be appointed to date of the adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend exercise rights attaching to different shares held by the and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares shareholder.
registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the entries on the Companys share register after that time shall be 2.
A proxy form for use by shareholders at the meeting is disregarded in determining the rights of any shareholder to enclosed with this document.
Proxies must be lodged with attend, speak and vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, provision in any enactment, the Articles of Association of Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, not less the Company or other instrument to the contrary.
than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time appointed for the meeting together with any power of 4.
Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed.
or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its Completion of the proxy form will not prevent a behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that such shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in corporate representatives do not do so in relation to the person.
Page 32 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED 5.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service notes can be exercised only by members of the Company.
may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof 7.
As at 5 June 2015, the latest practicable date prior to by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual, publication of this document, the Companys issued share and by logging on to the website www.
capital comprised 1,747,871 Ordinary shares of 12.50 each CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored with a total of 1,747,871 voting rights.
members, and those CREST members who have appointed 8.
Any person holding 3 per cent.
of the total voting rights in a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST the Company who appoints a person other than the sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to Chairman as his her proxy will need to ensure that both take the appropriate action on their behalf.
he she and such third party comply with their respective In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate Transparency Rules.
CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be 9.
Information regarding the meeting, including information properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, is Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the available from the Companys website, www.
information required for such instruction, as described in 10.
Under Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it Company must answer any question relating to the constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, attending the meeting unless: must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited ID a answering the question would interfere unduly with RA 19, by no later than 11.00 am on 21 July 2015.
No the preparation for the meeting or involve the such message received through the CREST network after disclosure of confidential information: this time will be accepted.
For this purpose, the time of b the answer has already been given on a website in receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the the form of an answer to a question: or timestamp applied to the message by the CREST c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or application host from which the Companys registrar is the good order of the meeting that the question be able to retrieve the message by inquiry to CREST in the answered.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST 11.
Shareholders are advised that, unless otherwise stated, any should be communicated to the appointee through other telephone number, website or e-mail address which may be means.
set out in this notice of meeting or in any related documents including the proxy form is not to be used for the CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST purposes of serving information or documents on, or sponsors or voting service providers should note that otherwise communicating with, the Company for any Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available purposes other than those expressly stated.
special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply 12.
The members of the Company may require the Company in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is without payment to publish, on its website, a statement the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take which is also to be passed to the auditors setting out any or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit.
provider s, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or The Company will be required to do so once it has received voting service provider s take s such action as shall be such requests from either members representing at least 5 necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means per cent.
of the total voting rights of the Company or at of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, up an average sum per member of at least 100.
Such in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual requests must be made in writing and must state the concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and senders full name and address and be sent to the timings.
Companys registered address at 10 St Colme Street, Edinburgh EH3 6AA.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 13.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. and the service contract of the executive Director will be available for inspection at the registered office of the 6.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons Company during normal business hours on any weekday whose shares are held on their behalf by another person Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from and who have been nominated to receive communications the date of this notice and at the location of the meeting from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the Companies Act 2006 Nominated Persons.
Persons may have a right under an agreement with the member who holds the shares on their behalf to be 14.
Members meeting the threshold requirements set out in the appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Companies Act 2006 have the right a to require the Alternatively, if Nominated Persons do not have such a Company to give notice of any resolution which can right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right properly be, and is to be, moved at the meeting pursuant under such an agreement to give instructions to the person to section 338 of the Companies Act 2006: and or b to holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
The include a matter in the business to be dealt with at the statement of the rights of members in relation to the meeting, pursuant to section 338A of the Companies Act appointment of proxies in notes 1 and 2 above does not 2006.
