KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2130 AGM 3133 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Dividends receivable on equity shares where no ex-dividend date is quoted are recognised when the Companys The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in right to receive payment is established.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
These comprise standards and interpreWhere the Company has received its dividends in the form tations approved by the International Accounting Standards of additional shares rather than cash, the cash equivalent Board IASB, together with such interpretations by the of the additional shares is recognised as income.
International Accounting Standards and Standing InterDividends from overseas companies are shown gross of pretations Committee as have been approved by the IASB withholding tax.
and still remain in effect, to the extent that these have been adopted by the European Union.
Fixed interest returns on non-equity securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the efThe financial statements are presented in Sterling and all fective yield on the investment.
values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
Interest income and other income is accounted for on an accruals basis.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where the presentational guidance set out in EXPENSES the Statement of Recommended Practice the SORP for All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Exinvestment trusts issued by the Association of Investment penses are charged to revenue except those incurred in the Companies the AIC in November 2014 is consistent maintenance and enhancement of the Companys assets with the requirements of IFRSs, the Directors have sought and taking account of the expected long term returns, as to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant follows: with the recommendation of the SORP.
Investment advisory fees have been allocated 35 per cent.
A number of new standards, including IFRS 9 Financial to revenue and 65 per cent.
Instruments, have been issued but are not effective for this accounting period.
These have not been adopted early and Transaction costs incurred on the acquisition or disposal of the Group does not consider that the future adoption of investments are expensed to capital.
any new standards, in the form currently available, will TAXATION have any material impact on the financial statements as presented.
In accordance with the SORP, the marginal rate of tax is applied to taxable net revenue.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverThe consolidated financial statements incorporate the fiable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets financial statements of the Company and the entities conand liabilities in the financial statements and the corretrolled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to sponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable 30 April each year.
Control is achieved if, and only if, the profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liabilGroup has power over the investee i. e. existing rights that ity method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are the investee : exposure, or rights, to variable returns from recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable its involvement with the investee: and the ability to use its profits will be available against which deductible tempopower over the investee to affect its returns.
The subsidiary rary differences can be utilised.
is not considered an investment entity in the context of IFRS 10.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income INVESTMENTS and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The ComInvestments are recognised and derecognised on the trade pany has availed itself of the relief from showing an Income date where a purchase or sale is under a contract the terms Statement for the parent company, granted under Section of which require delivery within a period of time estab- 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The profit of the Comlished by the market concerned, and are measured at fair pany for the year ended 30 April 2015 was 37,240,000. value being the consideration payable or receivable.
PRESENTATION OF INCOME STATEMENT Investments are designated in terms of IFRSs as investments held at fair value through profit or loss, and are In order better to reflect the activities of an investment measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which trust company, and in accordance with guidance issued by is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the on the convention of the exchange on which the investment Income Statement between items of a revenue and capital is quoted.
Investments in unit trusts or OEICs are valued nature has been presented alongside the Income Stateat the closing price released by the relevant investment ment.
The subsidiary is held at net asset value adjusted INCOME as necessary to represent the best estimate of fair value.
Dividends are recognised as income when the shareholders right to receive payment has been established, normally the ex-dividend date.
