Glossary Investment terminology A description of the difference between the share price and the net asset value per share.
The size of the Discount or Premium discount or premium is calculated by subtracting the share price from the net asset value per share and is usually expressed as a percentage % of the net asset value per share.
If the share price is higher that the net asset value per share, the result is a premium.
If the share price is lower than the net asset value per share, the shares are trading at a discount.
Gearing Calculated using the Association of Investment Companies definition.
Total assets, less current liabilities before deducting any prior charges such as borrowings minus cash cash equivalents divided by Shareholders funds, expressed as a percentage.
The value of the Companys assets, principally investments made in other companies and cash being held, NAV per share pence minus any liabilities.
The NAV is also described as shareholders funds per share.
The NAV is often expressed in pence per share after being divided by the number of shares which have been issued.
The NAV per share is unlikely to be the same as the share price which is the price at which the Companys shares can be bought or sold by an investor.
The share price is determined by the relationship between the demand and supply of the shares.
Ongoing charges are calculated by taking the Companys annualised ongoing charges, excluding Ongoing Charges performance fees and exceptional items, and expressing them as a percentage of the average month end net asset value of the Company over the year.
The value of the Companys assets, principally investments made in other companies and cash being held, Total Net Assets minus any liabilities.
Computing terminology An initialism of Long-term Evolution.
4G LTE is a fourth generation wireless communication standard and 4G LTE successor to the current 3G standard.
Android A Linux-based operating system for mobile devices developed by the Open HandsetAlliance, led by Google.
The delivery of computing and storage capacity as a service to a heterogeneous community of endCloud Computing recipients.
A Private Cloud is operated solely for a single organisation whether managed internally or by a third-party and hosted internally or externally while a Public Cloud is the purest form of Cloud computing based on multi-tenancy and Internet delivery.
A centralised repository for the storage, management and dissemination of data and information.
Datacentre eCommerce Electronic commerce, known as e-commerce, is the buying and selling of products or services over electronic systems such as the Internet.
An open source software framework enabling applications to work with thousands of independent Hadoop computers and massive data sets.
Apples operating system used in its iPhone iPad ranges.
iOS Software as a service Software delivery model where software and associated data is centrally hosted on the Cloud and accessed by users via a web browser.
Sometimes referred to as on-demand software.
SaaS The creation of a virtual rather than actual version of something which involves the abstraction of Virtualisation software from underlying hardware resources.
Computer data storage capacity The basic capacity of information in computing with only two possible values Bit often interpreted as binary digits and denoted as numerical digits 0 and 1.
Byte A unit of digital information equivalent to eight bits.
Kilobit KiloByte Kb KB Equivalent to 1000 bits or Bytes.
Megabit MegaByte Mb MB Equivalent to one million 106 bits or Bytes.
Gigabit GigaByte Gb GB Equivalent to one thousand million Bytes 109 or 1000 gigabits Gb.
Terabit TeraByte Tb TB Equivalent to one trillion 1012 bits or Bytes.
Petabit PetaByte Pb PB Equivalent to one quadrillion 1015 bits or Bytes.
Zettabit ZettaByte Zb ZB Equivalent to one sextillion 1021 bits or Bytes.
This list of computing terms has been compiled from public sources with acknowledgement and thanks to Wikipedia.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 125
