Contacts Investment Manager and AIFM Registrar Polar Capital LLP Shareholders who have their shares registered in their Authorised and regulated by the own name, not through a share savings scheme or ISA, Financial Conduct Authority can contact the registrars with any queries on their holding.
Post, telephone and Internet contact details Portfolio Manager are given below.
Ben Rogoff In correspondence you should refer to Polar Capital Technology Trust plc, stating clearly the registered name Company Secretary and address and if, available the full account number.
Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited represented by Neil Taylor FCIS Equiniti Limited Aspect House Registered Office and address Spencer Road for contacting the Directors Lancing 16 Palace Street West Sussex London SW1E 5JD BN99 6DA 020 7227 2700 Shareholder helpline: 0800 876 6889 Independent Auditors or 44 121 415 7047 www.
co. uk  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Electronic Communications Atria One, 144 Morrison Street If you hold your shares in your own name you can choose to Edinburgh EH3 8EX receive communications from the Company in electronic format.
This method reduces costs, is environmentally Solicitors friendly and, for many, is convenient too.
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Exchange House If you would like to take advantage of Electronic Primrose Street Communications please visit our registrars website at London EC2A 2EG www.
You will need your shareholder reference number.
If you agree to the terms Stockbrokers and conditions, in future, on the day that documents are Cenkos Securities plc sent to shareholders by post you will receive an e-mail 6.7.
Tokenhouse Yard providing the website address where the documents can London EC2R 7AS be viewed and downloaded.
Paper copies will still be available on request.
Depositary, Bankers and Custodian HSBC Bank plc AIC 8 Canada Square The Company is a member of the Association of London E14 5HQ Investment Companies AIC and the AIC website www.
co. uk contains detailed information about Registered Number investment trusts including guides and statistics.
Incorporated in England and Wales with company number 3224867 and registered as an investment company under section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 Company Website www.
co. uk The Company maintains a website which provides a wide range of information on the Company, monthly fact sheets, and copies of announcements and other useful details and further links to information sources.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 119
