6 Shareholder Information Warnings to Shareholders Boiler Room Scams We are aware that shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments or offering to act on the shareholders behalf on the payment of a retainer or similar in a spurious corporate event.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims have been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you have been contacted by an unauthorised firm regarding your shares the FCA would like to hear from you.
You can report an unauthorised firm using the FCA helpline on 0845 606 1234 or 0800 111 6768 or by visiting their website, which also has other useful information, at www.
uk If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation If the calls persist, hang up If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the company endorses will be included in company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FCA website.
Forward Looking Statements Certain statements included in this annual report and financial statements contain forward-looking information concerning the Companys strategy, operations, financial performance or condition, outlook, growth opportunities or circumstances in the countries, sectors or markets in which the Company operates.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve uncertainty because they depend on future circumstances, and relate to events, not all of which are within the Companys control or can be predicted by the Company.
Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct.
Actual results could differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking statements.
For a detailed analysis of the factors that may affect our business, financial performance or results of operations, we urge you to look at the principal risks and uncertainties included in the Strategic Report section on pages 6 to 55 of this Annual Report.
No part of these results constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an invitation or inducement to invest in Polar Capital Technology Trust plc or any other entity, and must not be relied upon in any way in connection with any investment decision.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 124
