55 F Fi in nan anc cial ial S St ta at tem emen ent ts s Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Accounting Standards Committee IASC, as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and IFRSIC guidance.
The Companys presentational currency is Pounds Sterling.
Pounds Sterling is also the functional currency of the Company because it is the currency which is most relevant to the majority of the Companys shareholders and creditors and the currency in which the majority of the Companys operating expenses are paid.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently for all years presented are set out below: a Basis of Preparation The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by the inclusion of investments and derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
The financial position of the Company as at 30 April 2015 is shown in the balance sheet on page 88.
As at 30April2015 the Companys total assets exceeded its total liabilities by a multiple of over 31.
The assets of the Company consist mainly of securities that are held in accordance with the Companys investment policy, as set out on page 46 and these securities are readily realisable.
The Directors consider that the Company has adequate financial resources to enable it to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Companys accounts.
b Presentation of Statement of Comprehensive Income In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with the guidance set out by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Statement of Comprehensive Income between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The results presented in the revenue return column is the measure the directors believe appropriate in assessing the Companys compliance with certain requirements set out in section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010. c Income Dividends receivable from equity shares are taken to the revenue return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income on an ex-dividend basis.
Special dividends are recognised on an ex-dividend basis and may be considered to be either revenue or capital items.
The facts and circumstances are considered on a case by case basis before a conclusion on appropriate allocation is reached.
Where the Company has received dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in the revenue return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Any excess in value of shares received over the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in the capital return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Franked income is stated net of tax credits.
Unfranked income includes the taxes deducted at source.
Bank interest and other income receivable are accounted for on an accruals basis and are recognised in the period in which they were earned.
Interest outstanding at the year end is calculated on a time apportioned basis using the market rates of interest.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 90 d Expenses and Finance Costs All expenses, including finance costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis.
All expenses have been presented as revenue items except as follows: any performance fees payable are allocated wholly to capital, reflecting the fact that, although they are calculated on a total return basis, they are expected to be attributable largely, if not wholly, to capital performance.
transaction costs incurred on the acquisition or disposal of investments are expensed either as part of the unrealised gain loss on investments for acquisition costs or as a deduction from the proceeds of sale for disposal costs.
Finance costs are calculated using the effective interest rate method and are accounted for on an accruals basis.
e Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the overseas withholding tax deducted from investment income, tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Companys liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the Statement of Comprehensive Income is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Investment trusts which have approval as such under section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Statement of Comprehensive Income, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 91 55 F Fi in nan anc cial ial S St ta at tem emen ent ts s Notes to the Financial Statements continued for the year ended 30 April 2015 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued f Investments Held at Fair Value Through Profit or loss When a purchase or sale is made under contract, the terms of which require delivery within the timeframe of the relevant market, the investments concerned are recognised or derecognised on the trade date and are initially measured at fair value.
On initial recognition the Company has designated all of its investments as held at fair value through profit or loss as defined by IFRS.
All investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Investments in unit trusts or OEICs are valued at the closing price, the bid price or the single price as appropriate, as released by the relevant investment manager.
Fair values for unquoted investments, or for investments for which there is only an inactive market, are established by using various valuation techniques.
These may include recent arms length market transactions, the current fair value of another instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
Where there is a valuation technique commonly used by market participants to price the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market transactions, that technique is utilised.
Where no reliable fair value can be estimated for such instruments, they are carried at cost, subject to any provision for impairment.
Changes in fair value of all investments held at fair value and realised gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the capital return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
g Receivables Receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Receivables do not carry any interest and are short-term in nature and are accordingly stated at their nominal value amortised cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
h Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
In the Statement of Cash Flows cash and cash equivalents also include bank overdrafts, if applicable.
i Payables Payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value amortised cost.
j Bank Loans All bank loans are initially recognised at fair value, being the fair value of the consideration received, less issue costs where applicable.
After initial recognition these loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on settlement.
The amounts falling due for repayment within one year are included under current liabilities in the Balance Sheet.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 92 k Rates of Exchange Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of each transaction.
Monetary assets, monetary liabilities and equity investments in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on that date.
Realised profits or losses on exchange, together with differences arising on the translation of foreign currency assets or liabilities, are taken to the capital return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Foreign exchange gains and losses arising on investments held at fair value are included within changes in fair value.
l Share Capital Represents the nominal value of authorised and allocated, called-up and fully paid shares issued.
m Capital Reserves Capital reserves gains losses on disposal includes: gains losses on disposal of investments exchange differences on currency balances and on settlement of loan balances cost of own shares bought back other capital charges and credits charged to this account in accordance with the accounting policies above Capital reserve revaluation on investments held includes: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments and loans held at the year end.
All of the above are accounted for in the Statement of Comprehensive Income except the cost of own shares bought back which is accounted for in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
n Derivative Financial Instruments The Companys activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in market prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative transactions which the Company may enter into comprise forward exchange contracts, the purpose of which is to manage the currency risks arising from the Companys investing activities, quoted options on shares held within the portfolio, or on indices appropriate to sections of the portfolio, the purpose of which is to provide protection against falls in capital values of the holdings: and loan interest rate swaps, the purpose of which is to manage interest rate risk.
The Company does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Companys policies as approved by the Board, which has set written principles for the use of financial derivatives.
A derivative instrument is considered to be used for hedging purposes when it alters the market risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the Company.
The use of financial derivatives by the Company does not qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS.
As a result changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as they arise.
If capital in nature, the associated change in value is presented in the capital return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 93 55 F Fi in nan anc cial ial S St ta at tem emen ent ts s Notes to the Financial Statements continued for the year ended 30 April 2015 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued o Segmental Reporting Under IFRS 8, Operating Segments, operating segments are considered to be the components of an entity about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
The chief operating decision maker has been identified as the Manager with oversight from the Board.
The Board is of the opinion that the Company is engaged in a single segment of business, namely investing in a diversified portfolio of technology companies from around the world in accordance with the Companys Investment Objective, and consequently no segmental analysis is provided.
In line with IFRS 8, additional disclosure by geographical segment has been provided in note 28.
Further analyses of expenses, investment gains or losses, profits and other assets and liabilities by country have not been given as either it is not possible to prepare such information in a meaningful way or the results are not considered to be significant.
p Key Estimates and Assumptions Estimates and assumptions used in preparing the financial statements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The results of these estimates and assumptions form the basis of making judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The only estimates and assumptions that may cause material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities relate to the valuation of unquoted investments and investments for which there is an inactive market.
These are valued in accordance with the techniques set out in note 2 f. At the year end, such investments represented 0.1% of net assets.
q Accounting Standards i i S St ta an nd da ar rd ds s, a, am me en nd dm me en nt ts a s an nd i d in nt te er rp pr re et tat ati io on ns b s be ec co om mi in ng e g ef ff fe ec ct ti iv five i e in t n th he y e ye ea ar t r to 3 o 30 A 0 Ap pr ri il 2 l 20 01 15 5: : IAS 27 revised, Separate financial statements Requirements for consolidated financial statements moved to IFRS10.
IAS 28 revised, Associates and joint ventures Supersedes IAS28, Investments in Associates.
IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements Provides additional guidance to assist in the determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements Replaces IAS31, Interests in Joint Ventures.
IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Includes the disclosure requirement for all forms of interest in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
Amendments to IFRS 10, 11, 12 transition guidance.
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Exception from consolidation for investment entities.
Amendments to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation clarity on offsetting financial assets and liabilities.
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting.
None of the above had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 94
