3 Directors Report Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the preparation and dissemination of financial statements Financial Statements in accordance with applicable may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly the Company law requires the Directors to prepare auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that financial statements for each financial year.
Under may occur to the Financial Statements since they were that law the Directors have prepared the Companys initially presented on the website.
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by The Directors consider that the Annual Report and the European Union.
Financial Statements, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the In preparing these financial statements, the Directors information necessary for shareholders to assess the have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditors Under company law the Directors must not approve the As far as the Directors are aware and to the best of their financial statements unless they are satisfied that they knowledge, having made enquiries, there is no relevant give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the audit information of which the Auditors are unaware and Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for the Directors have taken steps to make themselves aware that period.
In preparing these financial statements, of any relevant audit information and to establish that the the Directors are required to: Auditors are aware of such information.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Going Concern make judgements and accounting estimates that The Board has through the Audit Committee considered are reasonable and prudent: and assessed the Companys position as at 30 April 2015.
The work of the Audit committee is described on page 71 state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the and sets out the factors on which the going concern European Union have been followed, subject to any basis for the preparation of the financial statements material departures disclosed and explained in the was considered.
financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern The Company has a portfolio of investments listed and basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the traded on stock exchanges around the world, the Company will continue in business.
majority of which can be sold within one working day, providing considerable financial resources.
After making The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain that the Company has adequate resources to continue in the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable operational existence for the foreseeable future.
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Accordingly the Directors continue to adopt the going and enable them to ensure that the financial statements concern basis in preparing the annual report and and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the financial statements.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website although day to day maintenance has been delegated to Polar Capital LLP.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 80 Longer-Term Viability The Board through the Audit Committee considered and addressed the ability of the company to continue to operate over a longer period.
The work of the Audit Committee in looking at the longer-term viability is described on pages 74 and 75.
As an investment company with a liquid portfolio, the majority of which can be sold within one working day, limited expenses which are modest in relation to the asset base of the company, and no employees the Directors are of the opinion that the company can continue in operation for a further 5 year period.
Responsibility Statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Directors of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc, who are listed on pages 56 and 57, confirm to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: and the Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers Report, Strategic Report and Directors Report together constituting the Management Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and financial position of the Company and include a description of the principal risks and uncertainties.
The financial statements were approved by the Board on 24 July 2015 and the responsibility statement was signed on its behalf by Michael Moule, Chairman of the Board.
Michael Moule Chairman Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 81
