6 Shareholder Information Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive Disclosures Statement by Depositary The Directors Polar Capital Technology Trust Plc Statement of the Depositarys Responsibilities in Respect of the Trust and Report of the Depositary to the Shareholders of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc the Company for the Period Ended 30 April 2015 The Depositary must ensure that the Company is managed in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Investment Funds Sourcebook, the Sourcebook, the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD together the Regulations and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Depositary must in the context of its role act honestly, fairly, professionally, independently and in the interests of the Company and its investors.
The Depositary is responsible for the safekeeping of the assets of the Company in accordance with the Regulations.
The Depositary must ensure that: the Companys cash flows are properly monitored and that cash of the Company is booked into the cash accounts: the sale, issue, repurchase, redemption and cancellation of shares are carried out in accordance with the Regulations: the assets under management and the net asset value per share of the Company are calculated in accordance with the Regulations: any consideration relating to transactions in the Companys assets is remitted to the Depositary for the benefit of the Company within the usual time limits: that the Companys income is applied in accordance with the Regulations: and the instructions of the Alternative Investment Fund Manager the AIFM are carried out unless they conflict with the Regulations.
The Depositary also has a duty to take reasonable care to ensure that the Company is managed in accordance with the Articles of Association in relation to the investment and borrowing powers applicable to the Company.
Having carried out such procedures as we consider necessary to discharge our responsibilities as the Depositary of the Company, it is our opinion, based on the information available to us and the explanations provided, that in all material respects the Company, acting through the AIFM has been managed in accordance with the rules in the Sourcebook, the Articles of Association of the Company and as required by the AIFMD.
HSBC Bank Plc 24 July 2015 Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 126 Statement by Alternative Investment Manager The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Remuneration disclosures: AIFMD is a European Union Directive that entered into During the AIFMs financial year between 1 April 2013 force on 22 July 2013, with a 12 month transitional period and 31 March 2014, the proportion of the total allowing firms to comply with the directive by 22 July 2014. remuneration paid by the AIFM to its staff attributable The Directive was agreed by the European Parliament and to the AIF was 2,640,000.
Within such figure, the the Council of the European Union and transposed into UK proportion of the fixed remuneration of the AIFMs legislation.
The AIFMD classifies certain investment staff attributable to the AIF was 599,000 and the vehicles, including investment companies, as Alternative proportion of the variable remuneration of the AIFMs Investment Funds AIFs and requires them to appoint an staff attributable to the AIF was 2,041,000.
No Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM and Deposiperformance fee was paid to staff by the AIF during tary to manage and oversee the operations of the investthe financial year.
The Board of the Company retains responsiDuring the financial year, the aggregate amount of bility for strategy, operations and compliance and the remuneration paid to the senior management of the Directors retain a fiduciary duty to shareholders.
AIFM was 3,182,000 and the aggregate amount of Polar Capital LLP has been appointed as the Alternative remuneration paid to members of staff, including senior Investment Fund Manager AIFM to Polar Capital management, whose actions had a material impact on Technology Trust Plc AIF.
The AIF and the AIFM are the risk profile of the AIF was 8,145,000.
For the required to make certain disclosures to investors in the purposes of identifying the members of the AIFMs staff AIF on a periodic basis under the AIFMD.
In addition to whose actions had a material impact on the risk profile the periodic disclosures listed below supplemental of the AIF, the AIFM has conducted an assessment that information is set out in the Investor Disclosure it believes to be consistent with certain guidance Document which is available on the company website or published by the European Securities and Markets from Polar Capital, 16 Palace Street, London SW1E 5JD.
The periodic disclosures to investors are: Leverage disclosure: Information about the investment strategy, Leverage is disclosed in accordance with the AIFMD geographic and sector investment focus and principal in the Shareholder Information below.
There were no stock exposures of the AIF.
breaches to the leverage restrictions over the period.
These are included within the Strategic Report which Depositary Disclosure: includes the portfolio of all positions at 30 April 2015.
The AIFM has appointed HSBC Bank plc as depositary Notification of any of the AIFs assets that are subject to to the AIF.
The role of the depositary is to oversee the special arrangements arising from their illiquid nature: operations of the investment vehicle including safekeeping, cash monitoring and verification of There are no assets of this nature.
Risk disclosures about the profile and risk management processes in place: Leverage These are set out in the Strategic Report and in Note Under the AIFMD it is necessary for AIFs to disclose their 29 to the Financial Statements.
There have been no leverage in accordance with the prescribed calculations of changes to the risk management processes in the the directive.
Leverage is often used as another term for period under review and there have been no breaches gearing which is included within the Strategic Report.
Under the AIFMD there are two types of leverage that the AIF is required to set limits for, monitor and periodically Liquidity management: disclose to investors.
The two types of leverage There are no new arrangements for the management calculations defined are the gross and commitment of liquidity of the AIF or any material changes to the methods.
These methods summarily express leverage as a liquidity management systems and procedures ratio of the exposure of debt, non-sterling currency, equity employed by the AIFM.
or currency hedging and derivatives exposure against the Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 127 6 Shareholder Information net asset value.
The difference between the two methods The gross method of exposure of the AIF requires the is the commitment method which nets off derivative calculation to: instruments and the gross method which aggregates them.
include the sum of all non-derivative assets if applicable held at market value, plus the absolute The limits that have been set for the investment policy of value of all such liabilities: the AIF under the directive have been disclosed below and exclude cash and cash equivalents which are highly accommodate the maximum level of leverage conceivable liquid investments held in the base currency of the and do not reflect a level of leverage that is to be expected Company, that are readily convertible to a known in the foreseeable future.
amount of cash, which are subject to an insignificant Leverage may be applied to the portfolio by utilising risk of change in value and provide a return no greater financial gearing such as bank borrowings and than the rate of a three month high quality bond: overdrafts and synthetic gearing through derivatives include derivative instruments which are converted and or other non-fully funded instruments or techniques into the equivalent position in their underlying assets: for efficient portfolio management purposes such as exclude cash borrowings that remain in cash or cash stock-lending.
Typically, leverage will arise through the equivalents and where the amounts payable are known: use of index futures, forward foreign exchange contracts include exposures resulting from the reinvestment of or contracts for difference, where cash is paid to the cash borrowings, expressed as the higher of the counterparty as a margin against the current mark-tomarket value of the investment realised or the total market value of the derivative contract: as a result, amount of cash borrowed: and depending on the type of instrument, a relatively small movement in the price of a contract may result in a profit include positions within repurchase or reverse or a loss which is high in proportion to the amount of repurchase agreements and securities lending or funds actually placed as initial margin and may even borrowing or other similar arrangements as applicable.
result in further loss exceeding any margin deposited.
Exposure values under the commitment method basis are The use of leverage therefore creates additional risks calculated on a similar basis to the above, but may take and may significantly increase the market and into account the effect of netting off instruments to reflect counterparty risk of the AIF through non-fully funded eligible netting and hedging arrangements on eligible exposure to underlying markets or securities.
assets and different treatment of certain cash and cash Leverage is considered in terms of the AIFs overall equivalent items in line with regulatory requirements.
exposure to financial or synthetic gearing and includes The table below sets out the current maximum permitted any method by which the exposure of the AIF is increased limit and actual level of leverage for the Company: whether through borrowing of cash or securities, or leverage embedded in derivative positions or by any other As a percentage of net assets means.
The AIFM is required, in accordance with the AIFMD, to calculate and monitor the level of leverage of Gross Commitment Method Method the AIF, expressed as the ratio between the total exposure of the AIF and its net asset value with exposure values Maximum Leverage Limit 200% 200% being calculated by both the gross method and Actual Leverage Level commitment method.
30 April 2015 97.15% 97.15% Exposure values under the gross method basis are There have been no breaches to the maximum limits calculated as the absolute value of all positions in the set out above since the introduction of these limits on portfolio: this includes all eligible assets and liabilities, 22 July 2014. relevant borrowings, derivatives converted into their equivalent underlying positions and all other positions, even those held purely for risk reduction purposes, B K Tomlinson such as forward foreign exchange contracts held for Polar Capital LLP currency hedging.
Chief Legal and Compliance Officer 24 July 2015 Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 128 This document is printed on Fedrigoni Symbol Freelife Satin and is manufactured at a mill accredited with the ISO 14001 environmental management system Annual Report & Financial Statements 2015 Registered Office 16 Palace Street London SW1E 5JD Tel: 020 7227 2700 Fax: 020 7227 2799 www.
co. uk Registrar Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA www.
