6 Shareholder Information Investing Investing The ordinary shares of the Company are listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Investors should be aware that the value of the Companys ordinary shares may reflect the greater relative volatility of technology shares.
Technology shares are subject to the risks of developing technologies, competitive pressures and other factors including the acceptance by business and consumers of new technologies.
Many companies in the technology sector are smaller companies and are therefore also subject to the risks attendant on investing in smaller capitalisation businesses.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc is an investment trust and as such its ordinary shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment products.
The Company conducts its affairs and intends to do so for the foreseeable future so that the exclusion continues to apply.
There are a variety of ways to invest in the Company.
However this will largely depend upon whether you would like financial advice or are happy to make your own investment decisions.
For those investors who would like advice: Private Client Stockbrokers Investors with a large lump sum to invest may want to contact a private client stockbroker.
They will manage a portfolio of shares on behalf of a private investor and will offer a personalised service to meet an individuals particular needs.
A list of private client stockbrokers is available from the Wealth Management Association at www.
co. uk Financial Advisers For investors looking to find a financial adviser, please visit www.
co. uk Financial Advisers who wish to purchase shares for their clients can also do so via a growing number of platforms that offer investment trusts including Alliance Trust Savings, Ascentric, Nucleus, Raymond James, Seven IM and Transact.
For those investors who are happy to make their own investment decisions: Online Stockbroking Services There are a number of real time execution only stockbroker services which allow private investors to trade online for themselves, manage a portfolio and buy UK listed shares.
Online stockbroking services include Alliance Trust Savings, Barclays Stockbrokers, Halifax Share Dealing, Hargreaves Lansdown, Selftrade and TD Waterhouse.
The Company has also made arrangements with its share registrars, Equiniti Limited, for investors to buy and sell shares through the Shareview.
Further details can be obtained from the Shareview website or by calling the Shareholder helpline on 0800 876 6889.
Risks Please remember that the value of your investments and any income from them may go down as well as up.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
You may not get back the amount that you invest.
If you are in any doubt as to the suitability of a plan or any investment available within a plan, please take professional advice.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 122 Investors should be aware of the following risks when considering investing in the shares of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc: Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
Please remember that any investment in the shares of Polar Capital Technology Trust either directly or through a savings scheme or ISA carries the risk that the value of your investment and any income from them may go down as well as up due to the fluctuations of the share price, the market and interest rates.
This risk may result in an investor not getting back their original amount invested.
Investors should be aware that the value of the NAV of the Companys shares may reflect the greater relative volatility of technology shares.
As the Company invests in overseas companies changes in exchange rates may cause fluctuations in the value of the investments and of your investment in the Company.
The Company takes on bank debt for investment purposes gearing which exposes the company to exchange risk when the borrowings are in different currencies and the value of the investments made with the borrowings may fall and may not be sufficient to cover the borrowings and interest costs.
However the Company may increase or decrease its borrowing levels to suit market conditions.
If you are investing through a savings plan, ISA or other investment arrangement it is important that you read the key features documents and understand the risks associated with investing in the shares of the Company.
Tax rates and reliefs change from time to time and may affect the value of your investment.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc is a public listed company on the London Stock Exchange Premium Market section and complies with the UK Listing Authoritys Rules.
It is not directly authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 123
