Financial statements 139 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Statement of accounting policies General information Basis of consolidation The company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled The consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of in the UK.
The address of its registered office is No.
1 Godwin comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of changes in Street, Bradford, BD1 2SU.
The company is listed on the London shareholders equity, statement of cash flows and notes to the Stock Exchange.
financial statements include the financial statements of the company and all of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up from the date control passes to the group until the date control ceases.
Basis of preparation Control is achieved when the group: The financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union EU, International Financial Has the power over the investee: Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and the Is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements have been prepared with the investee: and on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments and Has the ability to use its power to affect returns.
Visa share holdings to fair value.
In preparing the financial statements, All intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised gains the directors are required to use certain critical accounting estimates on transactions between group companies are eliminated and are required to exercise judgement in the application of the on consolidation.
group and companys accounting policies.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the The group and companys principal accounting policies under IFRS, accounting policies of the group.
which have been consistently applied to all the years presented unless otherwise stated, are set out below: Revenue a New and amended standards adopted by the group Revenue comprises interest and fee income earned by Vanquis Bank and company: and interest income earned by the Consumer Credit Division CCD Defined benefit plans: Employee contributions amendments and Moneybarn.
to IAS 19 Nov 2013 simplifies the accounting for contributions Revenue excludes value added tax and intra-group transactions.
that are independent of the number of years of employee service egemployee contributions that are calculated according to Within Vanquis Bank, interest is calculated on credit card advances a fixed percentage of salary.
The amendment has not had a to customers using the effective interest rate on the daily balance material impact on the group or company.
Annual fees charged to customers credit card accounts are recognised as part of the effective interest rate.
Penalty charges b N ew standards, amendments and interpretations and other fees are recognised at the time the charges are made to customers on the basis that performance is complete.
issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 1January 2015 and not early adopted: Within CCD and Moneybarn, revenue on customer receivables is IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the classification, recognised using an effective interest rate.
The effective interest rate measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial is calculated using estimated cash flows, being contractual payments liabilities.
The final version of the standard was issued in July adjusted for the impact of customers repaying early but excluding 2014.
The standard primarily impacts the classification and the anticipated impact of customers paying late or not paying at measurement of financial assets and liabilities and introduces the all.
Directly attributable incremental issue costs are also taken into expected loss model for the measurement of the impairment account in calculating the effective interest rate.
Interest income of financial assets so it is no longer necessary for a credit event continues to be accrued on impaired receivables using the original to have occurred before a credit loss is recognised.
The group effective interest rate applied to the loans carrying value.
and company are in the process of assessing the impact of the standard and will adopt the standard in line with the mandatory Finance costs effective date of 1 January 2018, subject to endorsement by the EU.
Finance costs principally comprise the interest on bank and other borrowings including retail deposits and, for the company, on intraIFRS 16, Leases, replaces IAS 17, Leases and provides a model for group loan arrangements, and are recognised on an effective interest the identification of lease arrangements and the treatment in the rate basis.
Finance costs also include the fair value movement on financial statements of both lessees and lessors.
The standard those derivative financial instruments held for hedging purposes distinguishes between leases and service contracts on the basis which do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39. of whether there is an identified asset controlled by the customer.
The standard requires the recognition of a lease liability, being Dividend income the present value of the lease payments, and a right-to-use asset which will initially be recognised at the same value of the lease Dividend income is recognised in the income statement when the liability.
The group and company are in the process of assessing companys right to receive payment is established.
the impact of the standard and will adopt from the expected effective date of 1 January 2019, subject to endorsement by the EU.
140 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies continued Computer software and computer software development costs Goodwill are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful All acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method economic life which is generally estimated to be between three and of accounting.
The residual values and economic lives of intangible assets are reviewed by management at each balance sheet date.
Goodwill is an intangible asset and is measured as the excess of the fair value of the consideration over the fair value of the acquired Other intangible assets are valued at cost less subsequent identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of amortisation.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement acquisition.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a subsidiary include aspart of administrative costs.
the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the subsidiary sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purposes of Foreign currency translation impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups units or groups of cash-generating units which are expected to subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
economic environment in which the subsidiary operates the Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is carried at cost less functional currency.
The groups subsidiaries primarily operate in accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment is tested by comparing the UK and Republic of Ireland, with a pilot credit card operation the carrying value of the asset to the discounted expected future in Poland up until the sale of the receivables book on 1 April cash flows from the relevant cash-generating unit.
The consolidated and company financial statements are cash flows are derived from the groups latest budget projections and presented in sterling, which is the companys functional and the discount rate is based on the groups weighted average cost of presentational currency.
capital at the balance sheet date.
Transactions that are not denominated in the groups functional Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998 was currency are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the eliminated against shareholders funds under UK GAAP and was not transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign reinstated on transition to IFRS.
On disposal of a business, any such currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the goodwill relating to the business will not be taken into account in exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Differences arising determining the profit or loss on disposal.
on translation are charged or credited to the income statement, except when deferred in equity as effective cash flow hedges.
Investments in subsidiaries If a foreign operation were to be disposed of, the cumulative amount of the differences arising on translation recognised in other Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, comprehensive income would be recognised in the income statement provisions for impairment.
Impairment is calculated by comparing when the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
the carrying value of the investment with the higher of the net asset value of the relevant subsidiary and its discounted expected future cash flows.
Amounts receivable from customers Customer receivables are initially recorded at the amount advanced Leases to the customer plus directly attributable issue costs.
Subsequently, receivables are increased by revenue and reduced by cash collections Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of and any deduction for impairment.
ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
The leases entered into by the group and company are solely The group assesses whether there is objective evidence that operating leases.
Costs in respect of operating leases are charged customer receivables are impaired at each balance sheet date.
tothe income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The principal criteria for determining whether there is objective evidence of impairment is delinquency in contractual payments.
Other intangible assets Within Vanquis Bank, Moneybarn and glo, where repayments are typically made monthly, customer balances are deemed to Other intangible assets include acquisition intangibles in respect of be impaired when one monthly contractual payment is missed.
the broker relationships at Moneybarn and stand-alone computer Impairment is calculated as the difference between the carrying software and computer software development costs across value of receivables and the present value of estimated future the group.
cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The fair value of Moneybarns broker relationships on acquisition Estimated future cash flows are based on the historical performance was estimated by discounting the expected future cash flows from of customer balances falling into different arrears stages and are Moneybarns core broker relationships over their estimated useful regularly reassessed.
economic life which was deemed to be 10 years.
The asset is being Separate provisions are raised where forbearance is provided to the amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life.
customer and alternative payment arrangements are established.
Computer software and computer software development assets Accounts under payment arrangements are separately identified represent the costs incurred to acquire or develop software according to the type of payment arrangement.
The carrying value of and bring it into use.
Directly attributable costs incurred in the receivables under each type of payment arrangement is calculated development of software are capitalised as an intangible asset if the using historical cash flows under that payment arrangement, used software will generate future economic benefits.
Directly attributable to predict future expected cash flows which are discounted at the costs include the cost of software development employees and an original effective interest rate.
appropriate portion of relevant directly attributable overheads.
Financial statements 141 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Within the weekly home credit and Satsuma businesses of CCD, Available for sale investments objective evidence of impairment is based on the payment Available for sale AFS financial assets relate to equity holdings which performance of loans in the previous 12 weeks as this is considered are measured at fair value in the balance sheet as a reliable estimate to be the most appropriate indicator of credit quality.
Loans are of the fair value can be determined.
Fair value changes on AFS assets deemed to be impaired when the cumulative amount of two or more are recognised directly in equity through other comprehensive contractual weekly payments have been missed in the previous income, except for impairment losses and foreign exchange gains or 12-week period since only at this point do the expected future cash losses which are recognised through the income statement.
The fair flows from loans deteriorate significantly.
Loans with one missed value of AFS monetary assets denominated in foreign currency weekly payment over the previous 12-week period are not deemed are determined through translation at the spot rate at the balance to be impaired.
The amount of impairment loss is calculated on a sheet date.
portfolio basis by reference to arrears stages and is measured as the difference between the carrying value of the loans and the present Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognised in profit and loss value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the original when the groups right to receive the dividends is established.
Subsequent cash flows are regularly compared The cumulative gain or loss that is recognised in equity is recycled to to estimated cash flows to ensure that the estimates are sufficiently the income statement on disposal of the equity holding.
accurate for impairment provisioning purposes.
In Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn, impairment is recorded through Cash and cash equivalents theuse of an allowance account whilst in CCD impairment charges are deducted directly from the carrying value of receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand which includes amounts invested in the Bank of England account and UK Impairment is charged to the income statement as part of government gilts held in accordance with the Prudential Regulation operating costs.
Bank overdrafts are presented in current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with Property, plant and equipment cash balances.
Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment, except for land, which is shown at cost Derivative financial instruments less impairment.
The group and company use derivative financial instruments, Cost represents invoiced cost plus any other costs that are directly principally interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Repairs and maintenance contracts, to manage the interest rate and foreign exchange rate costs are expensed as incurred.
risk arising from the groups underlying business operations.
No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken.
Depreciation is calculated to write down assets to their estimated realisable values over their useful economic lives.
The following All derivative financial instruments are assessed against the principal bases are used: hedge accounting criteria set out in IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
Derivative financial instruments that % Method meet the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 are designated as Land Nil either: hedges of the fair value of recognised assets, liabilities or firm Freehold and long leasehold commitments fair value hedges : hedges of highly probable forecast buildings 2 Straight line transactions cash flow hedges : or hedges of net investments in Short leasehold buildings Over the lease period Straight line foreign operations.
Equipment including computer 1 The relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items hardware 10 to 333 Straight line is documented at the inception of a transaction, as well as the Motor vehicles 25 Reducing balance risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The assessment of whether the derivative The residual values and useful economic lives of all assets are financial instruments used in hedging transactions are highly reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged All items of property, plant and equipment, other than land, are items is documented, both at the hedge inception and on an tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances ongoing basis.
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Landis subject to an annual impairment test.
An impairment loss is Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at their recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying value fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are exceeds the higher of the assets value in use and its fair value less subsequently re-measured at each reporting date to their fair value.
Where derivative financial instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting, movements in the fair value are recognised immediately Gains and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are within the income statement.
Where hedge accounting criteria determined by comparing any proceeds with the carrying value have been met, the resultant gain or loss on the derivative financial of the asset and are recognised within administrative costs in the instrument is recognised as follows: income statement.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement as part of administrative costs.
142 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies continued risk are recognised in the income statement and a corresponding Fair value hedges adjustment made to the carrying value of borrowings.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group or income statement as part of finance costs, together with any changes company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Dividends paid Cash flow hedges Dividend distributions to the companys shareholders are recognised The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial in the group and companys financial statements as follows: instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in the hedging reserve within equity.
The gain or loss Final dividend: when approved by the companys shareholders relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the atthe annual general meeting.
income statement as part of finance costs.
Amounts deferred in Interim dividend: when paid by the company.
equity are recognised in the income statement when the income or expense on the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
Retirement benefits Hedge accounting for both fair value and cash flow hedges is discontinued when: Defined benefit pension schemes it is evident from testing that a derivative financial instrument is The charge in the income statement in respect of defined benefit not, or has ceased to be, highly effective as a hedge: or pension schemes comprises the actuarially assessed current service cost of working employees, together with the interest on pension the derivative financial instrument expires, or is sold, terminated liabilities offset by the interest on pension scheme assets.
All charges orexercised: or are recognised within administrative costs in the income statement.
the underlying hedged item matures or is sold or repaid.
The retirement benefit asset recognised in the balance sheet in When a cash flow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a respect of defined benefit pension schemes is the fair value of cash flow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the schemes assets less the present value of the defined benefit any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time is obligation at the balance sheet date, together with adjustments immediately transferred to the income statement.
for unrecognised past service costs.
A retirement benefit asset is recognised to the extent that the group and company have The fair values of various derivative financial instruments used for an unconditional right to a refund of the asset or if it will be hedging purposes are disclosed in note 18.
Movements on the recovered in future years as a result of reduced contributions to the hedging reserve in shareholders equity are shown in note 27.
fair value of a derivative financial instrument is classified as a noncurrent asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent item is more than 12 months from the balance sheet date and as a actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the item is less than 12 months from the balance sheet date.
estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the Net investment hedges terms of the related pension liability.
The group uses a combination of borrowings denominated in Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and overseas currencies and foreign currency forward contracts as changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in the a hedge against the translation exposure on the parents net statement of comprehensive income.
Where the hedge is fully effective at hedging the variability in the net assets of those operations and Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income or the parents investment caused by changes in exchange rates, statement, unless changes to the pension schemes are conditional the changes in value of the borrowings and forward contracts on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income and the vesting period.
In this case, past service costs are amortised on accumulated in the hedging reserve.
When a hedge is no longer a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
deemed to be highly effective, the ineffective part of any change in value caused by changes in exchange rates is recognised in the Defined contribution pension schemes income statement with previous gains or losses deferred within Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged equity being recycled to the income statement.
to the income statement on an accruals basis.
Borrowings Share capital Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being issue proceeds Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly less any transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a stated at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds less deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the expected life of the borrowings using the Where any group company purchases the companys share capital, effective interest rate.
the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is included within a treasury shares reserve and deducted from Where borrowings are the subject of a fair value hedge, changes in equity until the shares are no longer held by a group company or the fair value of the borrowing that are attributable to the hedged Financial statements 143 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 cancelled.
Where such shares are reissued outside of the group, any The cost of the award is charged to the income statement over consideration received, net of any directly attributable transaction the vesting period and a corresponding credit is made within costs, is included within the treasury shares reserve.
The value of the charge is adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect expected levels of vesting.
Share-based payments Taxation a Equity-settled schemes: The tax charge represents the sum of current and deferred tax.
The company grants options under employee savings-related Current tax is calculated based on taxable profit for the year using share option schemes typically referred to as Save As You Earn tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the schemes SAYE and makes awards under the Performance Share balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation Plan PSP and the Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS.
All of these as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of schemes are equity-settled.
income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and itfurther excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The cost of providing options and awards to group and company employees is charged to the income statement of the company Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on over the vesting period of the related options and awards.
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in The corresponding credit is made to a share-based payment the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the reserve within equity.
The grant by the company of options and computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance awards over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary sheet liability method.
undertakings is treated as an investment in the companys Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been financial statements.
The fair value of employee services received, enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are measured by reference to the fair value at the date of grant, is expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised recognised over the vesting period as an increase in investments or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax is also provided in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to the on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, share-based payment reserve within equity.
except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference The cost of options and awards is based on their fair value.
is controlled by the company and it is probable that the temporary For PSP schemes, the performance conditions are based on difference will not reverse in the future.
Accordingly, the fair value of options Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable and awards is determined using a binomial option pricing model that future taxable profits will be available against which the which is a suitable model for valuing options with internal related temporary differences can be utilised.
A binomial model is also used for calculating the fair value of SAYE options which have no performance Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally conditions attached other than continued employment by the enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax company.
The value of the charge is adjusted at each balance liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to sheet date to reflect lapses and expected or actual levels of income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the vesting, with a corresponding adjustment to the share-based taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention payment reserve.
to settle the balances on a net basis.
For LTIS schemes, performance conditions are based on either Exceptional items divisional profit before tax, EPS or Total Shareholder Return TSR targets.
Accordingly, the fair value of awards is determined using Exceptional items are items that are unusual because of their a combination of the binomial and Monte Carlo option pricing size, nature or incidence and which the directors consider should models.
The value of the charge is adjusted at each balance sheet be disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the date to reflect lapses.
Where the Monte Carlo option pricing groups results.
model is used to determine fair value of the TSR component, no adjustment is made to reflect expected or actual levels of vesting Supplementary information as the probability of the awards vesting is taken into account in the initial calculation of the fair value of the awards.
In order to assist shareholders and other users of the groups financial statements, supplementary commentary has been provided A transfer is made from the share-based payment reserve within the groups financial statements within highlighted boxes.
to retained earnings when options and awards vest or lapse.
This supplementary information does not form part of the statutory, In respect of the SAYE options, the proceeds received, net of audited financial statements.
any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
b Cash-settled schemes: The company also grants awards under the Provident Financial Equity Plan PFEP to eligible employees based on a percentage of their salary.
The cost of the awards is based on the performance conditions of either divisional profit before tax, EPS, TSR or share price growth.
The scheme is cash settled.
144 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies continued The impairment review conducted by management reflects a number Key assumptions and estimates of key judgements and estimates, which have a material effect on the In applying the accounting policies set out above, the group and outcome of the impairment review and therefore the carrying value company make significant estimates and assumptions that affect of goodwill and the acquisition intangible.
These include: thereported amounts of assets and liabilities as follows: Cash flow forecasts have been extracted from the budget produced by Moneybarn, which involves a number of judgements Amounts receivable from customers 2,016.7m and estimates, particularly in respect of new business volumes, The group reviews its portfolio of loans and receivables for collections performance and the cost base of the business.
impairment at each balance sheet date.
For the purposes of The surplus cash flows generated by Moneybarn have been assessing the impairment of customer loans and receivables, calculated as those over and above the equity retained in the customers are categorised into arrears stages as this is considered business to meet the groups target capital structure.
The groups to be the most reliable indication of future payment performance.
target capital structure of 20% equity and 80% debt is considered The group makes judgements to determine whether there is to be an appropriate capital structure for theMoneybarn business.
objective evidence which indicates that there has been an adverse effect on expected future cash flows.
The discount rate applied to the forecast surplus cash flows has been estimated based on the groups weighted average cost Customer accounts in Vanquis Bank, Moneybarn and glo are deemed of capital.
to be impaired when one contractual monthly payment has been missed.
In the weekly home credit business and Satsuma, receivables The nature and inherent uncertainty relating to the above are deemed to be impaired when the cumulative amount of two or judgements and estimates means that the forecast cash flows may more contractual weekly payments have been missed in the previous be materially different from actual cash flows.
A material future 12 weeks, since only at this point do the expected future cash flows reduction in forecast surplus cash flows from Moneybarn may from loans deteriorate significantly.
necessitate a material impairment charge to goodwill and or the acquisition intangible in future years.
The level of impairment in each of the groups businesses is calculated using models which use historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount and timing of future cash Tax current tax liabilities 50.5m, deferred tax flows from each arrears stage, and are regularly tested using liabilities14.9m subsequent cash collections to ensure they retain sufficient accuracy.
The tax treatment of certain items cannot be determined precisely The impairment models are regularly reviewed to take account of the until tax audits or enquiries have been completed by the tax current economic environment, product mix and recent customer authorities.
In some instances, this can be years after the item has payment performance.
However, on the basis that the payment first been reflected in the financial statements.
The group recognises performance of customers could be different from the assumptions liabilities for anticipated tax audit and enquiry issues based on an used in estimating future cash flows, a material adjustment to assessment of the probability of such liabilities falling due.
If the the carrying value of amounts receivable from customers may outcome of such audits is that the final liability is different from the be required.
amount originally estimated, such differences will be recognised To the extent that the net present value of estimated future cash in the period in which the tax audit or enquiry is concluded.
flows differs by 1%, it is estimated that the amounts receivable Any differences may necessitate a material adjustment to the level from customers would be approximately 20m 2014: 18m oftax balances held in the balance sheet.
The group carries a current tax provision which is sufficient to cover all legacy outstanding corporation tax matters which have not yet Moneybarn goodwill 71.2m and acquisition intangible been agreed with HMRC, as well as a provision for other possible tax 65.0m audit and enquiry issues based on an assessment of the probability ofsuch liabilities falling due.
The goodwill of 71.2m in respect of Moneybarn represents the surplus of the fair value of consideration over the fair value of If the probability assessment of uncertain tax liabilities was adjusted identifiable assets and liabilities on the date of acquisition.
The fair by 5%, it is estimated that the groups tax liabilities would be value of identifiable assets included a valuation of an acquisition 0.5m 2014: 1.3m higher lower.
intangible of 75.0m attaching to Moneybarns broker relationships as the relationships are an important influence on the revenue Retirement benefit asset 62.3m generating capacity of the business.
The valuation of the retirement benefit asset is dependent upon a The broker relationships were valued using a dividend discount series of assumptions: the key assumptions being mortality rates, model on the forecast surplus cash flows generated by Moneybarns thediscount rate applied to liabilities and inflation rates.
core broker relationships over their estimated useful life of 10 years.
Mortality estimates are based on standard mortality tables, adjusted In accordance with IFRS 3 Business combinations, the goodwill where appropriate to reflect the groups own expected experience.
arising on acquisition of Moneybarn is subject to an annual Discount rates are based on the market yields of high quality impairment review.
The impairment review is conducted by corporate bonds which have terms closely linked with the estimated comparing the discounted estimated future cash flows of term of the retirement benefit obligation.
Inflation assumptions Moneybarn, including those derived from broker relationships, reflect long-term market expectations for retail price inflation.
withthe carrying value of goodwill and the acquisition intangible Sensitivity analysis of the groups main assumptions is set out in inthe financial statements.
