Our world Prudential plc is an international financial services group serving around 24 million insurance customers and with 509 billion of assets under management.
We are listed on stock exchanges in London, Hong Kong, Singapore and New York.
24m 4 life customers worldwide stock exchange listings 509bn 167 years assets under management of providing financial security Premium franchises, best-in-class capabilities United States United Kingdom Jackson PrudentialUK&Europe Founded over 50 years ago, Jackson is one of the largest life Founded in the UK in 1848, Prudential is a long-established insurance companies in the US, providing retirement savings leading provider of life and pensions, with a relentless focus and income solutions aimed at the 75 million baby boomers.
on the needs of the age cohorts where wealth is most heavily Jacksons pursuit of excellence in product innovation and concentrated.
Our core strengths in with-profits and retirement distinctive distribution capabilities have helped it forge a solid are underpinned by our expertise in areas such as longevity, reputation for meeting customer needs.
Jackson has a long and risk management and multi-asset investment, together with our successful record of providing advisers with the products, tools financial strength and widely recognised brand.
These attributes and support to design effective retirement solutions for their clients.
position Prudential UK well to meet customer needs in the UKs evolving marketplace.
Premier retirement income player Well recognised brand with strong track record 18% 104bn 1 3 market share variable annuities funds under management in with-profits funds US$199bn 16bn 2 2 of statutory admitted assets PruFund funds under management Our businesses and their performance Our businesses and their performance United States page 24 UK Insurance and investments page 28 12 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information United Kingdom Asia M&G  M&G has been investing money for individual and institutional Prudential Corporation Asia has leading insurance and asset clients for over 80 years.
M&G has grown to be one of Europes management operations across 14 markets in Asia and serves largest retail and institutional fund managers by developing its the emerging middle class families of the regions outperforming expertise in active investment.
Prudential has been operating in Asia for over and long-term approach to investment, developing a deep 90 years and has built high performing businesses with effective understanding of the companies and organisations in whose multichannel distribution, a product portfolio centred on regular equities, bonds or property it invests.
savings and protection, award-winning customer services and a widely recognised brand.
Eastspring Investments is a leading asset manager in Asia and provides investment solutions across a broad range of asset classes.
Well recognised brand with strong track record Leading pan-regional franchise 2nd Top 3 4 largest retail fund manager in the UK position in nine out of 12 life markets 246bn 89bn 2 2 funds under management funds under management Our businesses and their performance Our businesses and their performance UK Asset management page 32 Asia page 18 Notes 1 Source: Morningstar Annuity Research Center.
3 Excluding Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund.
4 By total UK Assets under management.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 13
