Statutory and regulatory disclosures Financial reporting Going concern The Directors have a duty to report to In accordance with the requirements of the shareholders on the performance and guidance issued by the Financial Reporting financial position of the Group and are Council in September 2014 Guidance on responsible for preparing the financial Risk Management, Internal Control and statements on pages 132 to 291 and the Related Financial and Business Reporting, supplementary information on pages 298 after making sufficient enquiries, the to 328.
It is the responsibility of the auditor Directors have a reasonable expectation to form independent opinions, based on its that the Company and the Group have audit of the financial statements and its adequate resources to continue their audit of the EEV basis supplementary operations for a period of at least 12 information, and to report its opinions to months from the date that the financial the Companys shareholders and to the statements are approved.
In support of this Company.
Its opinions are given on pages expectation, the Companys business 293 to 296 and page 330. activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, successful Company law requires the Directors to performance and position in the current prepare financial statements for each economic climate are set out in pages 4 to financial year which give a true and fair 35.
The risks facing the Groups capital and view of the financial affairs of the Company liquidity positions and their sensitivities are and of the Group.
The criteria applied in referred to in the Strategic report on pages the preparation of the financial statements 45 to 54.
Specifically, the Groups are set out in the statement of Directors borrowings are detailed in note C6 on responsibilities on page 292 and page 329. pages 241 and 242: the market risk and Company law also requires the Board to liquidity analysis associated with the approve the Strategic report.
In addition, Groups assets and liabilities can be found the UK Code requires the Directors in note C3.5 a on pages 213 to 215: statement to state that they consider the policyholder liability maturity profile by Annual Report and financial statements, business units in notes C4.1 b, c and d taken as a whole is fair, balanced and on pages 222, 224 and 225 respectively: understandable and provides the cash flow details in the consolidated information necessary for shareholders statement of cash flows: and provisions to assess the Companys position and and contingencies in notes C12 and D2.
performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors therefore consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going The Directors are further required to concern basis of accounting in preparing confirm that the Strategic report includes the financial statements for the year ended a fair review of the development and 31 December 2015. performance of the business, with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties.
Such confirmation is included in the statement of Directors responsibilities on page 292 and page 329.
The Strategic report provides, on pages 45 to 47, a description of the Groups capital position, financing and liquidity.
The risks facing the Groups business and how these are managed are discussed in the audited sections of the Group Chief Risk Officers report on pages 49 to 56.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted in accordance with, the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
