Our businesses and their performance Asia Serving the savings, health and protection needs of the growing and increasingly affluent Asian middle class Performance highlights 1 Performance is on track to deliver the New business profit m Total IFRS operating profit m 2017 financial objectives 1,490 1,324 51 Continued delivery across key value 1,140 1,075 1,162 1,139 creation metrics.
On a constant 924 982 774 exchange rate basis, new business profit 811 up 28 per cent, total IFRS operating profits up 17 per cent and free surplus generation up 16 per cent 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Agency headcount up 13 per cent: Gain on sale of China Life Insurance Company APE per active agent up 25 per cent in Taiwan Strong growth from major bancassurance partners Eastspring Investments Net cash remittances m funds under management bn More than 25 per cent of APE sales comes from products launched in 467 89 past 24 months 400 400 77 341 60 Record third party net in-flows in 58 50 Eastspring Investments 206 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 18 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk s g n Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information i v a S n o i t c e t o r p d n a Market overview GDP growth in Prudential Corporation Asias markets US$trn Asias economic transformation continues to generate material increases in personal US$7trn wealth and drives significant demand for solutions to individuals financial planning 24.1 needs.
During 2015, macroeconomic and geopolitical turbulence continued to create 17.1 some challenges but the long-term potential remains compelling.
The degree of state-sponsored financial provision for healthcare and other social 2014 2020 services varies by market, but is typically very basic, and it is widely appreciated that Growing middle class bn the private sector has a very important complementary role.
Protection gaps 700m people remain high and the regulators have tasked the industry with improving levels of financial literacy and addressing this issue.
Consequently, the regulations governing A sian families have very clear 1.2 the industry continue to evolve in largely financial protection gaps and positive ways with good outcomes for savings needs but these are customers and shareholders.
significantly underserved by the industry.
2010 2020 There is a healthy competitive environment with a good mix of domestic, regional and We have a responsibility to do a Source: Based on IMF and includes China, international companies operating in the much better job of reaching these Cambodia, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Korea, markets.
However, barriers to entry remain Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, people and providing them with Thailand and Vietnam.
high in terms of the availability of new appropriate products and advice.
licences, the need for significant capital investment and the challenges in building Tony Wilkey Chief Executive, distribution scale and quality.
Prudential Corporation Asia Given the low penetration rates of insurance and investment products we see considerable growth opportunities over the long term.
Favourable demographic and economic trends Asia excluding Japan is leading the world in terms of GDP growth.
In the period 2014 to 2020, it is expected to generate 2 around US$7.0 trillion of new GDP, more than the US and the other advanced economies combined.
Our strategy Prudential has built a well diversified Asian platform that matches our distribution and product strengths to each markets long-term opportunities in the life Asia sector, and maximises our assetSignificant protection gap and investment gathering capabilities in the regions needs of the middle class investment management industry.
Our strategy page 14 Self-reliant global middle class US UK Transition of Savings gap and baby boomers ageing population in need into retirement of returns and income www.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 19 1.9 h t l a e h, s g n i v a S s g n i v a S % 6 2 n o i t c e t % o r 0 P 3 a c n a B % 3 2 d e % k 1 n 1 i r L e h t O Our businesses and their performance continued Prudential Corporation Asia is a powerful franchise with a wide footprint in the right markets, established go-to market capabilities and superior brand strength.
A platform for growth Vietnam Asia population Prudential customers 5 Market ranking 1st Population 92m 3,302m 14m 6 Penetration 0.7% Prudential agents Prudential bancassurance branches Long-term industry leader Strong presence in major cities and all 63 provinces 500,000 10,000 97 per cent brand recognition 1.3 million customers Circa 100,000 agents, one third of A trusted brand and market leader in Asia industry Distribution Product 8 UAE Population 9.3m Customers Customers Thailand Proven multichannel model A ll season product solutions 3 Over 500,000 agents 25% APE from new products 5 Market ranking 9th Selling through over Pioneering service proposition Population 69m 10,000 bank branches 6 Penetration 3.6% Excellent bancassurance platform Platform Asset management APE has grown 2.7 times since Weve been working in Asia since 1923 Strong presence in Asia acquisition of Thanachart Life in 2013 Top 3 position in nine out of the Circa 90 billion funds under Access to 800 branches nationwide 12 life markets management with partners Standard Chartered 4 5 Top decile brand awareness Operating in 10 major Asian markets Bank, United Overseas Bank and Thanachart Bank Cambodia 5 Market ranking 1st 16m Population 6 Penetration 0% 20 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk % % 1 9 5 5 s y g c n n i e v g a S A Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Hong Kong 5 Market ranking 2nd Population 7m India China Korea 6 Penetration 12.7% 5 5 5 Market ranking 1st Market ranking 3rd Market ranking 17th Resilient distribution platform Leading insurer with scale in agency Population 1,276m 1,375m Population 51m Population and bank distribution 6 6 6 Penetration 2.6% Penetration 1.7% Penetration 7.2% 2015 saw a 39 per cent increase in active manpower and a 27 per cent Successful joint venture increase in productivity Operating in 64 cities Successful partnership with Standard 50 per cent increase in Chartered Bank now in 18th year number of active agents Product innovations drive new during 2015 customer acquisition and repeat sales Broad range of bank partners regional, national, international 8 Japan Population 127m Taiwan 5 Market ranking 16th Population 23m 6 Penetration 15.6% Philippines 5 Market ranking 2nd Population 101m 6 Penetration 1.6% Rapidly scaling up distribution Almost tripled agency size in less than three years Expanding across country Improving efficiency 80 per cent of policies now processed straight through Market leader in  policies Indonesia 5 Market ranking 1st Population 255m Malaysia Singapore 6 Penetration 1.1% 5 5 Market ranking 1st Market ranking 2nd Unmatched platform with scale Population 31m Population 6m and geographic reach Over 400 agency offices across 6 6 Penetration 3.1% Penetration 5% country Well positioned to capture emerging Professional agency complemented Largest agency force opportunity in Bumi segment by a distinctive range of bank partners High-tech agency training and Largest agency in the industry Market-leading PruShield product licensing Most productive bancassurance drives customer acquisition All-in-one product solution relationships Number one for regular premium new combines protection, investment and Pioneer in linked policies with riders business savings for flexible savings and protection Focus on value over volume: agency Conventional and Takaful options 7 43 per cent market share of Takaful new business profit up 7 per cent over Value-add services such as Sharia compliant life business.
prior year PRUHospital Friends www.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 21 Our businesses and their performance continued More mortality cover US$trn Strong demand for savings What we do and how we do it and protection products Although Prudential has been operating in As people move into the middle class, their Asia for over 90 years, we began building increased wealth and higher income give our regional business in earnest in 1994 Mortality them the opportunity to make financial with the establishment of Prudential Protection Gap plans for the first time.
Typically the priority Corporation Asia.
Since then, Prudential is to provide protection for their families Corporation Asia has entered new markets, and establish a regular savings plan added considerable agency scale and Income to through a life insurance policy.
launched bank distribution, developed maintain living Life Insurance standards product capabilities particularly Social welfare provisions vary by market in unit-linked with protection and built a Asia but generally fall well below the levels customer-centric brand anchored on the people need to sustain their families Savings tag line Always Listening, Always lifestyle in the event of a personal tragedy Understanding.
such as the diagnosis of a critical illness.
Today, Prudential Corporation Asia is Also, while basic medical services may be provided by the state, there can be a high focused on leveraging this platform to grow US$50trn level of out-of-pocket expenses, creating in a disciplined way for the benefit of our Mortality protection gap demand for financial solutions to customers, shareholders and communities.
significantly improve an individuals Success is defined by metrics that ensure experience through access to private we deliver volume, value and good service.
More health cover US$bn medical services.
Therefore, critical illness Market participation and medical riders are popular additions to Each market is unique and our overarching life insurance policies.
regional strategy is very specifically Traditionally, Asians would have relied on Health tailored to the opportunities that reflect the Protection Gap their children to provide for them in their many differences in each country, retirement but with family sizes decreasing including its stage of economic people are increasingly making their own development, cultural preferences, Total future financial provisions and life insurance regulation, the competitive landscape and healthcare policies are a popular part of a retirement costs our own risk appetite.
expenditure to Life insurance distribution Once the savings and protection solutions cover future Prudential Corporation Asia is well healthcare are in place there is the opportunity to positioned in terms of its scale and diversity invest.
Single premium insurance policies of distribution.
Over 500,000 agents are also important in more developed produce around 60 per cent of sales, with markets and it is likely that customers will the remainder mainly coming from increasingly seek access to different asset US$161bn bancassurance that includes exclusive classes through mutual funds as their Gap in healthcare protection by 2020 agreements with Standard Chartered wealth grows and their financial needs Bank, UOB and Thanachart.
At the core of become more sophisticated.
our distribution model is face-to-face Better use of savings interaction with customers that delivers Evolving regulatory environment high-quality, needs-based advice.
Each Asian market has evolved its own 19% 11% regulatory regime depending on the 28% Products heritage of the industry, experiences and 50% Our product portfolio is tailored to suit the developmental priorities.
savings and protection needs of customers Regulators across the region are generally in each market.
61% keen to promote the growth of the life For example, in markets such as Indonesia insurance industry as they appreciate the and Malaysia there is a high demand for social utility of providing financial security regular premium unit-linked policies that to individuals, and the way insurers can 31% provide coverage for hospital and surgical channel unproductive cash savings into and critical illnesses, combined with long-term investments in the economy.
savings for items such as childrens However, they are imposing higher education.
In Hong Kong, there is high North Asia standards on the industry and monitoring America ex Japan demand for participating products where compliance more actively, with increasing the smoothed investment returns are Cash Equities Bonds focus on the quality of advice distributors particularly appealing as part of a broader provide and the suitability of the products 2x financial plan.
Although assessments of solvency proportion of savings in cash can vary considerably market by market, higher than the US there is increasing convergence on risk-based calculations.
Source: Based on Swiss Re report and includes Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam: BCG wealth 2015.
22 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Our customers in focus Shane from the Philippines has kinds of unforeseen events prove life insurance to be a vital investment for been a Prudential customer for five years, and holds a PRULink Exact everyone through the withdrawals PEP 10 allowed me to make, my fathers Protector policy, with the additional optional riders Life Care Benefit, hospitalisation and my sons tuition fee were both covered.
Now, my dad is Personal Accident, Hospitalisation Income and Waiver of Total and happily recovering, my son is enjoying learning at school, and Im incredibly Permanent Disability.
grateful to have gotten claims when I Last year, my father got hospitalised.
We were devastated, not only emotionally but also financially, that my Launched in 2011, PRULink Exact siblings and I had to chip in to make ends Protector is an investment-linked life meet.
To make things worse, I also insurance plan that offers both insurance needed money for my sons tuition fee as protection and savings, providing the start of classes was fast approaching.
customers with peace of mind.
We would have been in deep financial An investment-linked plan, it allows trouble if not for PRULink Exact Protector customers to align their premium PEP 10, my life insurance with Pru Life.
payments with their investment strategy 9 I was hesitant to get one at first, but these and provides a choice of funds.
Customers Eastspring Investments Prudential Corporation Asia has over funds under management bn 14 million life insurance customers and 89.1 over 22 million in-force policies.
We 77.3 52.8 actively monitor customer satisfaction 47.2 59.9 58.1 levels across multiple indicators, but key 50.3 37.7 36.5 statistics are the numbers of customers 31.1 who keep their policies our retention rate 36.3 30.1 is over 90 per cent, and the number of 21.6 22.2 19.2 customers who buy more policies from us 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 in 2015 more than 38 per cent of APE sales were from existing customers, reflecting Internal External the success of our advice-driven approach Invested by Prudentials insurance funds and that customers appreciate the value of the products we provide.
Corporate social responsibility Innovations in service are also important activities to customer satisfaction.
Some are Prudential is a committed member of the technology based, such as e-submissions communities where we operate, and up 35 per cent in 2015 and automated through the Prudence Foundation we drive underwriting, but a key component is also social responsibility activities, with a focus innovation with the human touch such as on providing disaster relief, promoting Singapores PRUhealthcare assist.
financial literacy and childrens education.
Asset management During 2015, Prudential extended its Eastspring Investments, Prudentials highly successful childrens financial asset management business in Asia, literacy programme, Cha-Ching and manages investments for Prudentials Asia, launched the second stage of the UK and US life companies and also has SafeSteps programme, focusing on road Notes a broad base of third-party retail and safety with ambassador Michele Yeoh.
2 Prudential estimates based on IMF data For more information on these and other October 2013. initiatives, see the Corporate responsibility The asset mix is well balanced with 3 Based on products launched over the past review on page 57.
50 per cent equities, 43 per cent fixed 4 Top decile in five of seven countries in income and 7 per cent money market.
South-east Asia and Hong Kong.
Around 54 per cent of funds have 5 Prudentials rank in insurance market by new business APE.
Based on formal competitors outperformed their benchmarks over a results releases, local regulators, insurance three-year period.
Eastspring Investments associations and informal industry exchange has been building expertise in market share data.
infrastructure, negotiated credit and 6 Market penetration sourced from Swiss Re based on insurance premiums as a percentage quantitative investment capabilities.
7 Source: based on Insurance Services Malaysia Berhad data as at 31 December 2015.
9 Any investors should note that the value of investments, and the income from them, will fluctuate, which will cause fund prices to fall as well as rise and they may not get back the original amount they invested.
The customers circumstances and views are specific to them and should not be taken as a recommendation, advice or forecast.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 23 Our businesses and their performance continued United States Providing US baby boomers with solutions for a stable retirement Performance highlights 1 Cash remittance increased by New business profit m IFRS operating profit m 13 per cent to a record level of 809 1,702 470 million 706 694 1,443 1,302 Total IFRS operating profit of 568 530 1,003 1,702 million, up 9 per cent from year-end 2014 675 Continued strong returns on shareholder capital across all key 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 financial metrics Successfully managed sales of variable Growth in statutory admitted assets annuities with guarantees in line with Net cash remittances m US$bn risk appetite Awarded World Class Certification by 470 199.1 190.0 415 170.9 Service Quality Measurement Group, One-o 142.8 Inc. and Highest Customer Satisfaction 122 294 } 107.6 249 by Industry award the tenth 220 consecutive year of recognition for customer service performance in these two categories 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 One-off release of excess surplus 24 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk s g n Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information i v a S n o i t c e t o r p d n a Market overview Regulatory landscape In addition to the uneven economic Providing solutions to retirement conditions in 2015, the insurance industry challenges continues to deal with an evolving regulatory The US is the worlds largest retirement landscape and a multitude of initiatives.
savings market with total assets in the Many of these initiatives began in response 2 annuity sector of over US$2.6 trillion.
to the financial crisis over eight years ago Each year, approximately four million baby and were focused on the broader financial boomers reach retirement age.
Within the insurance industry, we continue to see changes in The number of retirees entering this stage supervisory structures, new global group of their life are triggering a shift from supervision and capital standards and a savings accumulation to retirement income 3 focus on the reduction of systemic risk.
generation of more than US$10 trillion.
More recently, with the release of a US However, as a group, baby boomers are Department of Labor DOL proposal to under-saved and, in addition, their life introduce new fiduciary obligations for expectancies continue to rise.
They are in distributors of investment products to need of insurance products that offer the holders of regulated accounts, the industry opportunity to grow their assets and to is now dealing with a regulatory initiative provide with guaranteed lifetime income J ackson continues its long-term that will significantly impact the delivery of to support them through these challenges.
disciplined approach to our advice to our customers.
The rules related The US retirement market continues to business, with a sharp focus to this proposal are not yet final, but as a offer significant opportunities for profitable on aligning the needs of our leader in the industry, we have spent many growth by providing solutions to stakeholders.
This disciplined hours with a wide variety of stakeholders the millions of baby boomers and to the approach has enabled us to to highlight the issues and to ensure that future generations that will follow.
manage successfully volatile lawmakers and regulators understand the macroeconomic conditions, impact of what is proposed and the US economic environment and drive consistently positive consequences it will have on various Despite a noticeable deceleration in outcomes even in the midst segments of the retirement market.
consumer spending and a contraction in of unsteady financial markets.
business investment in the fourth quarter, Jackson has a good track record of Jacksons mission is important.
the US economy continued its trend of navigating and, at times, benefiting from We provide financial security modest annual growth.
While some sectors changes in the regulatory environment.
to our customers with products were disappointing, notably manufacturing, This remains our mindset as we work to and services designed to support the US economy created 2.7 million new meet the needs of all of our stakeholders.
4 them into and through retirement.
jobs, pushed unemployment down to Competitive landscape Our strategy remains focused on 5.0 per cent and showed continued We continue to see significant changes providing a strong proposition to improvement in the housing market.
across the competitive landscape as well.
our customers and value creation In December, the Federal Reserve raised Sales in the annuity industry were down for our shareholders.
the Federal Funds rate by 25 basis points, 5 approximately 2 per cent comparing third their first increase in almost 10 years.
The Barry Stowe quarter year-to-date 2015 latest available S&P 500 returned approximately negative Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, data against third quarter year-to-date and 1 per cent in 2015, after much stronger North America Business Unit total industry variable annuity sales were returns in 2013 and 2014, while the 5 down approximately 4 per cent.
These benchmark 10-year US Treasury note yield results partially reflect the headwinds the rose from 2.18 per cent at the end of 2014 industry faced in 2015, including market to 2.28 per cent at 31 December 2015. volatility and unknown regulatory outcomes.
Our strategy Prudentials strategy in the US is well established and continues to focus on: Capitalising on baby boomer retirement opportunities: Asia Significant protection gap and investment Maintaining a balanced product suite needs of the middle class throughout the economic cycle: Streamlining operating platforms, driving further operational efficiencies: and Self-reliant global Conservative, economic based middle class approach to pricing and risk US UK Transition of Savings gap and management.
baby boomers ageing population in need into retirement of returns and income Our strategy page 14 www.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 25 h t l a e h, s g n i v a S s g n i v a S Our businesses and their performance continued Competitors continued to make product capabilities and asset liability management Additionally, Jacksons success with the changes across many segments and we expertise to offer prudently priced annuity development, launch and execution of Elite noted competitors evolving across product products aligned with our risk appetite.
Access demonstrates the depth and categories.
In 2015, we saw more strength of our creative and distribution There continues to be strong consumer competitors join the fixed-index annuities capabilities in the industry.
We now demand for our products.
In many cases they offered living command a leading position in a market we to respond to this demand with product benefits on their products in an attempt to were not operating in prior to 2012.
Elite innovation and distribution strategies compete with variable annuities.
In Access is the third best-selling variable that meet the needs of a growing 6 addition, some insurers have made annuity product in the US.
As of third retirement population while generating changes to the fund platforms within their quarter of 2015, Jackson offers three of the shareholder value.
variable annuity products, requiring top 10 best-selling variable annuity 6 managed volatility funds with a living products across the industry.
With a long-term focus on balancing the benefit guarantee which purportedly needs of multiple stakeholders, Jackson The strength of our product development protect annuity customers from downside has forged a solid reputation and built capabilities continues to support the market risks.
There are now 17 Investment strong relationships based upon its diversification of our product mix, with the Only Variable Annuity IOVA products financial stability, innovative and sale of variable annuities with living benefit that compete directly with Elite Access, our creative products and market-leading guarantees remaining in line with our risk variable annuity product with no guarantee adviser support.
As expected, in the benefits.
The majority of those competitors Our relentless pursuit of excellence has current historically low interest rate have added guaranteed benefits to the earned us a leading position in the industry.
environment, variable annuities continue IOVA products.
Elite Access still commands to outsell fixed rate products.
While sales a significant market share with sales of Creative product development of fixed annuities have been lower in recent 3.1 billion in 2015.
Jackson develops and distributes products years, fixed index annuities increased that address the retirement needs of our Despite positive demographic trends and 15 per cent from 2014.
These products still customers through various market cycles.
the needs of retirees, these competitive make up a significant portion of our balance These products include variable annuities, activities, market volatility and regulatory sheet and earnings.
fixed annuities and fixed index annuities.
headwinds have impacted the industry, Jackson stopped selling traditional life and further market share adjustments have Among the main attractions of a variable insurance products in 2012: however, we resulted as customers and distributors seek annuity product is the optional lifetime continue to look for opportunistic bolt-on insurers like Jackson that offer consistency, guarantee, where customers can access a acquisitions to further diversify our stability and financial strength.
stream of payments with downside earnings and balance sheet risks.
In the protection while still being able to invest in past, these disciplined acquisitions have What we do and how we do it a broad range of assets, as well as the shaped Jacksons earnings while helping to benefit of tax deferral on the investment Long-term perspective diversify Jacksons overall risk profile.
The breadth of Jacksons long-term strategy is focused on We continue to balance proactively value, our product offering, strength of our profitable growth opportunities created by volume, capital and balance sheet strength distribution relationships and our ability to the demand for retirement income and across our suite of product offerings, which maintain financial stability through the accumulation products in the worlds allows us to compete effectively crisis and remain as a consistent presence largest retirement market.
within the market, has resulted in Jackson We take a disciplined approach by 5 being the number one writer of variable leveraging our distinctive distribution annuities in the US.
Our customers in focus from the products as our heirs.
Its very Grandparents Joanne and Charlie 68 and 69 are both semi-retired, clear that our financial professional cares about us, so we took his advice, and and live in the Dallas-Fort Worth area.
They own a Jackson annuity honestly we could not be happier.
Our annuity has worked exactly as he contract.
described it, and Charlie and I agree that After weathering the storm in 2000 and its the very best product for us.
watching our portfolio take another hit during the crisis in 2008, Charlie and Jackson is a leading provider of retirement I decided that we couldnt go through solutions for industry professionals and that agony for a third time.
The Company offers a diverse to our story, our wonderful financial range of products including variable, fixed professional, being the excellent teacher and fixed index annuities designed for that he is, introduced us to annuities, tax-efficient accumulation and distribution explaining that these products offered of retirement income for retail customers, guaranteed income for life, the and fixed income products for institutional 8 opportunity for growth over our lifetime, investors.
and that our children could even benefit 26 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information High-quality information technology Strength of distribution Our distribution teams set us apart from systems are critical for providing awardwinning customer service.
Jacksons wholesaling force is the largest in the industry, technology to enhance processing quality and reduce the time required to process supporting thousands of advisers across multiple channels and new business and commissions.
The flexibility of our information technology distribution outlets.
systems contributes to our ability to Our wholesalers provide extensive manufacture, distribute and service an training to these advisers.
In 2015, we unbundled product design unique to the led the industry with the highest level industry.
The focus on our operational of sales efficiency, with gross sales per platforms, and the efficiencies achieved as wholesaler 32 per cent higher than the a result, has provided us with among the nearest competitor.
lowest general and administration expense to asset ratio relative to competitors.
National Planning Holdings, an affiliate of 7 Jackson, is the sixth largest independent Disciplined risk management broker-dealer network in the US.
Jackson operates within a well-defined risk Leveraging the collective strength of the framework aligned with the overall four broker-dealers within the network, Prudential Group risk appetite.
The type National Planning Holdings is able to meet and number of products we sell remains the specific needs of three key distribution balanced.
Our conservative and disciplined channels: independent representatives, economic approach to pricing is designed financial institutions, and tax and to achieve both adequate returns on our accounting professionals.
We offer products and sufficient resources to registered representatives and investment support our hedging programme.
advisers access to industry-leading mutual fund asset management companies, Our hedge philosophy has not changed in insurance carriers, and to thousands of 2015.
Jackson is able to aggregate financial brokerage products.
National Planning risks across the Company, obtain a unified Holdings provides significant benefits for view of our risk positions, and actively Jackson by offering Jackson products and manage net risks through an economically providing market intelligence.
A key element of our core strategy is to protect the The strength and flexibility of this network Company from severe economic scenarios will give us distinct advantages as we while maintaining adequate regulatory continue to manage through the pending capital.
We benefit from the fact that the US Department of Labor fiduciary proposal competitive environment continues to which, as it is drafted today, will have a favour companies with robust financial direct impact on the distribution of strength and a demonstrated track record annuities in the future.
of financial discipline, both key elements of Efficient operations our long-term strategy.
We support our industry-leading product development and distribution teams with award-winning customer service.
Jackson was awarded by Service Quality Measurement Group, Inc. World Class Certification in customer satisfaction and Notes 1 The 2015 EEV results of the Group are presented received the Highest Customer Satisfaction on a post-tax basis and, accordingly, prior years by Industry award, achieving the top rating results are shown on a comparable basis.
for the financial industry for the tenth 2 LIMRA, Annuity US Individual Annuities Survey consecutive year.
4 Bureau of Labor Statistics, US Department of Labor.
5 LIMRA Secure Retirement Institute, US Individual Annuities Sales Survey Q3 2015.
Jackson is ranked first in total Variable Annuities sales out of 44 participating companies in LIMRAs quarterly survey as of 3Q YTD 2015.
6 2015 Morningstar Inc. All Rights Reserved.
The information contained herein: 1 is proprietary to Morningstar and or its content providers: 2 may not be copied or distributed: and 3 is not warranted to be accurate, complete or timely.
Neither Morningstar nor its content providers are responsible for any damages or losses arising from any use of this information.
Past performance is no guarantee of future results.
Morningstar Annuity Research Center 3QYTD15 variable annuity sales by contract.
8 Any investors should note that the value of investments, and the income from them, will fluctuate, which will cause fund prices to fall as well as rise and they may not get back the original amount they invested.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 27 Our businesses and their performance continued United Kingdom Insurance and investments Serving the savings and retirement needs of the ageing population in the UK Performance highlights 1 Robust sales performance in New business profit m IFRS operating profit m challenging pension freedom 318 1,195 environment 89 117 259 1,106 241 237 Named Company of the Year for 105 30 24 736 753 195 723 735 2 excellence in service 211 213 105 19 201 23 31 25 648 176 154 Retained two Five Star ratings for 700 705 710 2 excellent service, achieved for fifth consecutive year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Best Investment Service and Best Wholesale Wholesale 3 Investment Bond Provider 2015 Retail Retail Diversified distribution model focusing A djusted to exclude results of PruHealth A djusted to exclude results of PruHealth and PruProtect and PruProtect on intermediaries, Prudential Financial Planning our direct advice service and Net cash remittances m Inherited estate bn individual customers via mail, email and telephone 355 8.0 331 7.6 325 7.2 313 7.0 297 Significant investment to develop digital 6.1 distribution capabilities Launch of PruFund range within ISA wrapper drives further strong performance of with-profits offering 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Implementation of pension freedom R epresenting Solvency II own funds of the UK drives product innovation to meet with-profits funds changing face of UK retirement market 28 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk s g n Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information i v a S n o i t c e t o r p d n a Prudential is well placed in this evolving Market overview marketplace.
This is evident in our new A period of fundamental change business profile relative to a few years ago.
and opportunity Where once bonds and annuities were the The UK is the worlds fifth largest retail dominant components of new business, investment market.
Wealth is concentrated since the emergence of greater post-pension in the 50 age group, with the younger freedoms we have been writing more generation of savers being typically less bond, ISA, pension saving and income well-funded.
In our target over-50 drawdown business, and a significantly demographic, the population growth rate is lower volume of annuity business, giving a almost double the growth rate of the UK better balance to our business portfolio.
population as a whole, and while the introduction of pension freedom reforms in What we do and how we do it April 2015 has fundamentally changed the Valuable customer franchise way in which individuals can access their For over 167 years Prudential has been savings to help fund their income in providing financial security to generations retirement, the need to accumulate savings of UK customers through an unwavering remains unchanged.
These radical focus on long-term value as evidenced by changes, when combined with our trusted our longevity experience, multi-asset brand and product capabilities, provide investment capabilities and our financial Th e regulatory and government new and significant opportunities for the interventions we continued to strength.
Such attributes are highly sought profitable and capital efficient growth of after today by customers adjusting to witness in 2015 will benefit the our business in the UK.
well known, financially strong pension freedoms and by financial advisers who require a brand they can trust to help firms, such as Prudential, as more The new regulatory rule book transparency and competition When compared to 2012, the UK pensions secure dependable incomes in retirement for their clients.
Our inherent brand comes to the sector.
industry today is almost unrecognisable.
Three years of unprecedented regulatory strength, in combination with our range of This changing environment market-leading with-profits and retirement change has resulted in a structural creates opportunities that play to marketplace shift in how customers view income products, resonate more strongly our strengths great investment than ever with customers and distributors.
retirement, with consumers being given performance, access to a true greater flexibility to access their pension This is driving significant demand for our multi-asset fund and a customer differentiated and market-leading savings in retirement.
Customers are return less impacted by market engaging more frequently with their retirement solutions.
providers and the demand for financial advice and guidance is increasing.
Those John Foley companies that are well known, financially Chief Executive strong and create products and services to Prudential UK & Europe match the pension freedom needs and expectations of customers will prosper.
Our strategy Prudential UK & Europe is a well established provider of retirement income and investment solutions with a focus on helping customers achieve their long-term Asia investment goals.
Significant protection gap and investment Its distinct competitive advantage in needs of the middle class with-profits and longevity management continues to provide market-leading returns to customers over the long term.
Using this core capability it is attracting Self-reliant global new customers with a range of new middle products designed to meet their class US UK retirement income and savings needs in a Transition of Savings gap and baby boomers ageing population in need post-pension freedom market.
into retirement of returns and income By optimising its in-force business and focusing on the areas of the market where it has a distinct competitive advantage, Prudential continues to deliver sustainable cash flows for the Group and its shareholders.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 29 h t l a e h, s g n i v a S s g n i v a S Our businesses and their performance continued We continue to focus on meeting customer Financial Planning partners, or by Consistently committing to customer needs through the following actions: telephone and increasingly online: service improvement, which was recognised at the 2015 Financial Providing products and retirement Investing in technology that enables Adviser Service Awards where we solutions perfectly tailored to help customers to engage more flexibly with received the accolade of Company of customers take advantage of the new us online: the Year for the first time, while also pension freedoms: Enhancing access to our market-leading retaining our two Five Star ratings in the Broadening the ways in which PruFund investment range through an Life & Pensions and Investment customers can do business with us ISA wrapper: categories for the fifth consecutive year.
through financial adviser intermediaries, Introducing income drawdown providing advice to customers in their specifically designed for the pension homes through our 250 Prudential freedoms market: and Focused participation in two distinct segments Retail growth Cash and in-force optimisation Grow differentiated proposition and distribution Improve, re-shape, optimise Segment Mutual value creation for customers Significant ongoing value to be managed features and shareholders Opportunity to improve customer service Diversification of product base using and retention core capabilities Optimise costs Long-term savings and retirement focus Pru competitive Investment record: asset side scale Strength of customer base: direct capability capabilities Complementary intermediary and owned Long track record of managing longevity distribution: retail brand Aims UKs leading provider of investment Well-managed back book underpinning solutions future profit delivery Capital-lite, profitable growth Customer outcome delivery Long-term cash generation Strong investment track record, PruFund investment performance product capabilities and PruFund growth customer outcomes Prudential is a leader in its chosen markets, 83% benefiting from a strong investment track 80% record, a financially strong with-profits fund and a recognised reputation for developing innovative products.
60% Over the long term our with-profits fund has continued to perform strongly.
Over a 40% period spanning nearly 20 years, our asset share fund has outperformed the median investment return of our peer group by 20% ABI fund comparator an average of just over 100 basis points 37% per annum.
0% Our with-profits, or PruFund, platform gives us the ability to create products perfectly tailored for the customers of the pension -20% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 freedoms world.
In the past year we have PruFund growth ABI fund comparator made two significant enhancements that have broadened access to our ABI Mixed Investment 20%-60% Shares TR: performance from 31 December 2005 to 31 December 2015 proposition: making PruFund available through an ISA wrapper and through a drawdown product.
30 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Our customers in focus Mike retired in 2014, and was heaven, the monies in the fund will pass on to my wife and then on to our children.
introduced to the Prudential Flexible Retirement and Flexible 4 Prudential UKs PruFund offers customers Drawdown Plan by Prudential the potential for growth alongside a degree Financial Planning.
of security against losing money.
With its The PruFund range has allowed me to market-leading multi-asset fund offering, look forward to my retirement with total Prudential UK provides access to our fund confidence.
I was introduced to the management expertise.
Our innovative Prudential Flexible Retirement and funds spread risk through investing in many Flexible Drawdown Plan, and discovered different assets, employ a smoothing that this gave me much more control over process that offers potential growth in the my financial planning over the coming value of the funds while helping to manage years: I was able to consolidate all my short-term volatility, and provide a range of pensions into one pot and the fund guarantee options to tie in with customers should grow modestly while still allowing future needs.
I am able to adjust my pension up or down depending on my circumstances, and also take a lump sum if needed.
And the real bonus is that when I do head up the stairway to Our competitive strength in these areas our most significant route to market in the combined with our product suite continues UK with sales growth of 52 per cent over to attract new customers seeking protection the same period in 2014 being achieved by from the impact of volatile market conditions.
Sales generated by Prudential Financial Planning Importantly for customers, our PruFund increased by 77 per cent.
The expertise range provides smoothing in a volatile and and capability within our Retail Voice uncertain investment environment.
The telephony team is ideally suited to supporting strength of the proposition is reflected in developments of our direct to consumer the consistent growth we have franchise and is complementary to the experienced, both in terms of the number services of Prudential Financial Planning.
of customers invested and the assets under management.
Our business in Poland has established a strong customer franchise, growing PruFund comprises a range of different steadily since launching in 2013. funds, with or without explicit guarantees, Headquartered in Warsaw, the business and a range of risk-rated fund options.
We now has 18 branches across the country meet a wide range of customer needs by and 597 financial planning consultants.
Its providing access to PruFund through a success demonstrates our ability to build a variety of tax or product wrappers, namely new business franchise by applying our ISAs, bonds, pensions and drawdown.
existing product and distribution expertise In Corporate Pensions, we continue to to a new market.
focus on securing new members and Prudential UK & Europe has well incremental business from our current established franchise in its chosen markets portfolio of customers and on additional which continues to drive strong growth voluntary contribution plans within the and ongoing product demand among public sector, where Prudential is the customers.
The business is focused on market leader, providing schemes for 73 of delivering retail growth and the the 101 public sector authorities in the UK.
It will Our approach to bulk annuity transactions continue to develop retirement solutions in the UK continues to be one of disciplined based on the market-leading and participation, focusing on those differentiated PruFund range.
opportunities where we can bring both Developments will be underpinned by the significant value to our customers and meet latest technology including the our shareholder return requirements.
In introduction of a new policy administration 2015 we completed four transactions at the system to support the launch of a higher end of the market, generating sales retirement account specifically designed in excess of 1.5 billion.
for the post-pension freedom marketplace.
Notes 1 The 2014 EEV results of the Group are presented Broad distribution on a post-tax basis and, accordingly, prior years Our diversified distribution model, focused results are shown on a comparable basis.
on both third-party financial advisers and 2 Financial Adviser Services Awards.
3 Moneyfacts Life and Pensions Awards 2015. the individual customer through a direct 4 Any investors should note that the value of non-advised channel and our own financial investments, and the income from them, will planning arm Prudential Financial Planning, fluctuate, which will cause fund prices to fall as has been central to the increase in retail well as rise and they may not get back the original amount they invested.
The customers business written in 2015.
Distribution circumstances and views are specific to them through financial advisers continues to be and should not be taken as a recommendation, advice or forecast.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 31 Our businesses and their performance continued United Kingdom Asset management Serving both retail and institutional investors needs through a conviction-led and long-term approach to investing Performance highlights Retail external funds under M&G external net flows bn M&G external funds under management of 60.8 billion management bn 5 per cent growth in institutional 16.9 137 126 126 business to 65 billion under 9.0 63 112 65 59 management 9.5 57 7.1 2.1 92 2015 profits of 442 million 4.4 7.9 7.4 0.4 48 0.5 6.7 3.9 3.9 Recognised for its investment expertise 74 67 61 with awards across nearly all its asset 55 categories in 2015, including 44 10.9 Investment Manager of the Year at the 7.0 European Pension Awards 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Institutional Institutional Retail Retail Including 7.6 billion single mandate 1 Net cash remittances m IFRS operating profit m 302 446 442 285 395 235 320 213 206 301 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 32 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk s g n Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information i v a S n o i t c e t o r p d n a In Europe, investors shifted away from Market overview fixed income and equities towards mixed The European asset management market asset funds and cash, accompanied by a is the second largest in the world with net significant increase in funds flowing to 2 assets of 12.6 trillion.
Demand for asset exchange traded funds.
Net sales of management services is expected to UK-domiciled mutual funds were continue to grow as governments and 3 17.0 billion during 2015, with annual employers increasingly pass the 3 net outflows of 4.7 billion from the fixed responsibility for retirement planning and income asset class by itself, although other long-term savings to individuals.
property and money market funds Asset managers with records of strong held up well.
investment returns and a high level of client service are in a good position to attract What we do and how we do it flows of new money.
M&G has been managing money on behalf The UK asset management industry, of third-party investors for more than M&Gs core market, is the second largest 80 years.
We believe our active approach national market in the world with to investment selecting investments on 3 870.7 billion of assets and is a global a conviction basis rather than following a centre of excellence for investment market index produces superior returns management and a major source of A fter a period of exceptional for our customers over the longer term.
long-term funding for the UK economy.
growth M&G had a more We offer our customers the ability to challenging year, with retail invest in a diverse range of assets: not only M&G manages money on behalf of retail redemptions due in part to equities and fixed income but also unlisted and institutional investors, and continuation of a market-wide investments such as property, direct Prudential UKs funds.
change in investor sentiment lending, infrastructure and private equity.
Our M&G is one of the UKs largest real estate Market backdrop over the past year track record of innovation in The global economy in 2015 was investors, with a property portfolio of institutional business combined 23.4 billion at 31 December 2015, and dominated by three factors: fears of an with asset class diversification economic slowdown in China, which led to is the third largest private debt lender helped deliver capital efficient in the world.
the Chinese stock market crash in August: profits and cash generation for the continued decline in global commodity M&G operates a range of UK-domiciled the Group.
prices: and a strong US dollar.
While retail funds which are now distributed commodity-exporting emerging markets in 15 markets across Europe and Asia.
Michael McLintock and currencies suffered during 2015, the At the end of 2015 clients outside the UK Chief Executive Officer, M&G US dollar strengthened in anticipation of account for 41 per cent of our retail assets a rise in the federal funds rate, further under management.
bolstered by investors seeking a safe haven In the institutional market, M&G provides during heightened geopolitical tensions.
Despite signs of economic recovery in a range of strategies that help pension funds, sovereign wealth funds and other developed countries, 2015 saw heightened market volatility across most asset classes large institutional investors match liabilities and achieve growth targets.
Some of these and regions.
strategies were developed originally for Prudentials insurance funds.
Our strategy M&G manages the investments of individuals, institutions and the UK policyholders of Prudential funds.
Its aim is to help these customers to meet their financial goals through Asia long-term active investment Significant protection gap and investment management across a diversified needs of the middle class range of asset classes.
Innovation and independence of thought are prized at M&G in the belief that these are the factors that lead to superior, Self-reliant global sustainable returns for its clients over middle the longer term.
A record of strong class US UK investment returns attracts clients and Transition of Savings gap and baby boomers ageing population in need assets, and the resulting management into retirement of returns and income fees continue to generate strong cash flows for Prudentials shareholders.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 33 h t l a e h, s g n i v a S s g n i v a S Our businesses and their performance continued M&Gs retail market position M&G funds under management bn we also have specialist real estate teams in Paris, Frankfurt, Luxembourg, Retail fund markets are highly fragmented, 264 with no single company dominating.
This Singapore, Seoul and Tokyo in addition 246 244 127 228 to those in London.
reflects the competitive nature of the 120 118 201 116 business and the multiplicity of providers.
109 Meeting customers needs Retail clients favour pooled funds such as A committed focus on long-term open-ended investment companies which investment returns means that the interests 63 59 65 they buy directly from M&G or more 57 of M&G and its customers are aligned, 48 typically through an intermediary such as whether clients are individual savers, 74 67 61 an independent financial adviser or 55 institutional investors or the funds of 44 discretionary fund manager.
By total UK Prudentials insurance operations.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 assets under management, M&G is the M&G has a strong investment brand, built second largest retail fund manager with Internal over decades and based on a reputation for 35.7 billion of assets under management, Institutional honesty, innovation and a commitment to equivalent to a market share of Retail 3 building long-term wealth for our investors.
In Europe, where M&G has Invested by Prudentials insurance funds We aim to put our customers at the heart of distributed funds since 2002, it has over everything we do and seek to be a trusted 23.5 billion of assets under management 4 partner for all of our clients.
and a market share of 0.4 per cent.
funds, 51 UK local authority pension schemes and a number of sovereign wealth Investment expertise M&Gs institutional market position funds.
M&G Real Estate is one of the M&Gs investment expertise spans all the Institutional clients require investment worlds largest international property principal asset classes equities, fixed strategies that help them meet future investors enabling clients to access a wide income, multi-asset and real estate so outgoings, from a pension scheme making range of investment opportunities in real that we can always offer investment payments to retired employees to a estate across all the major sectors in the solutions to our clients as market conditions sovereign wealth fund that finances UK, Europe and Asia.
schools, transport and other infrastructure developments.
M&Gs ability to design and Equities: Our fund managers have the People commercialise investment strategies for freedom to develop their own investment Our investment edge is our people.
We such clients is founded on the quality of its approaches.
Their main strength lies in employ more than 2,000 people operating people and their acknowledged expertise stock selection, focusing on fundamental from offices across Europe, Asia and in in the worlds credit and real estate markets.
M&Gs size and southern Africa.
We take pride in standing enables our fund managers to Many of the innovative strategies attracting, developing and retaining people develop an effective dialogue with the of the highest calibre.
In return, they are developed for todays institutional clients management teams of the companies in are long-term, illiquid investments from committed to working with us to meet the which they invest.
long-term needs of our customers.
infrastructure and housing to solar parks and corporate lending.
Such investments Fixed income: M&G is one of Europes Our investment teams are primarily based often require a client to sign up for multiple largest fixed income investors.
Our fund in our headquarters in London, where they years, creating long-term stability and managers benefit from one of the regions benefit from the provision of high quality security in the yields received by the client largest and most experienced in-house support staff and investment and the fees received by M&G.
credit research teams, whose knowledge infrastructure: from analysts and dealers to covers the full range of fixed income operations, risk and compliance.
Reflecting Our institutional fixed income clients investment, from the management of the need for local expertise in real estate, include some of the UKs largest pension Our customers in focus lifestyle throughout retirement.
To spread Ian retired at 55, and now has more time to spend doing what matters his risk across geographies, asset classes and fund strategies, Ian holds shares in the to him and his wife Sue, which includes managing their money.
M&G Property Portfolio which mainly invests in commercial properties in the UK My job now is to get the best possible and in a broad mix of equity funds invested return on our savings and investments 6 in the UK, Europe, North America and Asia.
and I like to keep up to date with the latest financial developments and look for good investment opportunities.
Diversification is key to my investment strategy and the wide range of funds available from M&G allows me to achieve this.
Like many M&G direct customers, Ian prefers to invest in income shares of M&G mutual funds, which pay out income regularly to help support his 34 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information sovereign debt and public corporate bond Diversification portfolios through to private debt such as M&G has pursued business diversification leveraged finance, real estate finance, across: direct lending and infrastructure.
In a Asset class: expertise across equities, ranking of global private debt managers for fixed income, real estate and 2015, M&G ranked third, with a book of multi-asset strategies: 5 over 20.7 billion.
Client type: retail customers and Multi-asset: M&Gs Multi-Asset team, the institutional clients including pension Macro Investment Business, is responsible funds, sovereign wealth funds, for the management of a range of funds for and Prudentials own long-term retail investors and segregated accounts insurance funds: for institutional clients.
The team applies a top-down macro approach, with a strong Investment strategy: over 60 pooled valuation framework, which can be applied retail funds covering domestic, global across markets and regions in many and emerging market strategies, 14 of market conditions.
which have funds under management of over 1 billion, up from 13 in 2014.
Real estate: M&G Real Estate is a leading Institutional clients benefit from a global property investor and manager wide-range of pooled and or covering all major real estate sectors segregated fixed income, equity and including business space, retail and leisure, real estate strategies: and residential and alternatives sectors.
We actively manage our assets, drawing on our Countries.
long heritage of expertise and knowledge and our extensive network of contacts.
This approach enables the business to identify and capitalise on attractive investment opportunities.
We also have a track record of identifying and exploiting real estate development opportunities and for the successful delivery of projects.
M&G concluded 2015 with 4.2 billion of global property transactions.
This included 2.6 billion of acquisitions with an average deal size of 56 million.
A history of innovation Since launching the UKs first open-ended fund in 1931, we have brought a succession of new investment strategies to the retail and institutional markets.
In combination with this tradition of innovative investment thinking, M&G has a proven ability to convert ideas into products that meet our clients needs and attract significant fund flows.
It is these two qualities in combination that make M&G distinctive.
M&G saw healthy inflows to its ranges of retail multi-asset funds in 2015, as investors sought flexibility and stability in times of low yields and economic and political uncertainty.
During the year, M&G launched a third fund in its popular European multi-asset range, the M&G Prudent Allocation Fund.
In the institutional market, pension funds, sovereign wealth funds and other large Notes clients require stable, long-term cash flows 1 Excludes Prudential Capital.
European Fund & that help meet their liabilities.
Our Asset Management Association published on reputation for innovation in the institutional 22 February 2016. market continues to grow, with M&G at the 3 Source: Investment Association, 31 December 2015. forefront of a number of specialist fixed 4 Lipper FMI FundFile, 31 December 2015, based income markets, including leveraged on Europe ex.
consistency of our institutional investment 5 Private Debt Investor figures based on amount of capital raised over the last five years for returns helped earn M&G the prestigious discrete private debt strategies.
2015 Financial News Institutional Asset 6 Any investors should note that the value of Management Awards for Infrastructure investments, and the income from them, will fluctuate, which will cause fund prices to fall as Manager of the Year for our infrastructure well as rise and they may not get back the investment arm, Infracapital.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 35
