Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Compliance with corporate governance codes In line with its primary listings on the The Board confirms that it has complied In line with the principles of the UK Code, London and Hong Kong Stock Exchanges, with all relevant principles set out in the UK fees for the Non-executive Directors are the Company has applied the main and HK Codes throughout the accounting determined by the Board.
The UK Code, principles and all relevant provisions of the period.
With respect to Code Provision issued in 2012, and revised in 2014, can be UK and HK Codes throughout the 2015 B.
1.2 d of the HK Code, the responsibilities viewed on the FRCs website, with the HK financial year as set out in the Governance of the Remuneration Committee do not Code available on the website of the HK report on pages 70 to 100 and also in the include making recommendations to the Stock Exchange.
Directors remuneration report, which can Board on the remuneration of the be found on pages 102 to 129.
Additional information US regulation and legislation Change of control Customers As a result of its listing on the New York Under the agreements governing The five largest customers of the Group Stock Exchange, the Company is required Prudential Corporation Holdings Limiteds constituted in aggregate less than to comply with the relevant provisions of life insurance and fund management joint 30 per cent of its total sales for each of 2015 the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 as they apply ventures with China International Trust & and 2014. to foreign private issuers and has adopted Investment Corporation CITIC, if there is procedures to ensure such compliance.
a change of control of the Company, CITIC may terminate the agreements and either In particular, in relation to Section 302 i purchase the Companys entire interest of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 which in the joint venture or require the Company covers disclosure controls and procedures, to sell its interest to a third party designated a Disclosure Committee has been by CITIC, or ii require the Company to established, reporting to the Group Chief purchase all of CITICs interest in the joint Executive, chaired by the Chief Financial venture.
The price of such purchase or sale Officer and comprising members of senior is to be the fair value of the shares to be management.
The work of the Disclosure transferred, as determined by the auditor Committee supports the Group Chief of the joint venture.
Executive and Chief Financial Officer in making the certifications regarding the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure procedures.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 99
