Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information distribution relationships with Maybank Despite significant volatility in capital with the expectation of some changes to and Singpost, total APE sales were markets, Eastspring Investments, our Asia the rule, but the basic framework of the 13 per cent lower in 2015. asset management business, delivered original proposal is presumed to remain strong results in 2015, with record intact.
Given Jacksons proven record of Indonesia continues to generate material third-party net inflows of 6.0 billion, product innovation, best-in-class levels of new business value for our Asia up 11 per cent on 2014.
The businesses infrastructure, access to competitive business, and the recurring regular benefited from robust inflows into equity intelligence and integration of product premium nature of our in-force portfolio funds, including Asian equity funds in design with distribution, we believe we are has driven a 21 per cent increase in IFRS Japan, good investment performance in well positioned to respond, adapt and take operating profit.
Our sales performance Korea and India driving excellent domestic advantage of any market disruptions.
reflects both softer market conditions and flows and healthy net inflows into bond Jackson achieved total retail APE sales of the impact of deliberate, proactive actions funds from our joint ventures in China and to further improve the quality of our 1,606 million in 2015, broadly consistent India.
Total funds under management at with the levels in 2014.
While this might affect 31 December 2015 were a record shorter-term sales progression, it institutional sales, total APE sales increased 89.1 billion, up 16 per cent on the prior conserves value and positions us well to 3 per cent to 1,729 million, driving an year as a result of net inflows from both our capitalise on the eventual upturn.
Market 8 per cent growth in new business profit third-party and our life businesses.
conditions for new business sales remain to 809 million.
challenging, with suppressed consumer The fundamentals of our Asian business Total variable annuity APE sales of sentiment making it harder to close sales, remain compelling and we have the 1,512 million in 2015 remained flat reflected in APE sales 11 per cent lower at capabilities and market positions to be able compared to 2014, reflecting Jacksons 326 million.
However, average agency to deliver long-term, profitable growth.
continued focus on proactively managing case sizes increased by 9 per cent in 2015. sales of products with living benefits to Our businesses and their performance We remain confident about our long-term Asia page 18 maintain an appropriate balance of revenue prospects in Indonesia given the low streams and match our annual risk appetite.
insurance penetration levels and we are US The proportion of variable annuity sales continuing to invest in building our agency Our US business delivered a strong without living benefits remains significant force nationwide.
performance in 2015, with total IFRS at 33 per cent of total variable annuity APE operating profit of 1,702 million, up In Malaysia, we have seen continued sales, broadly in line with last year.
Elite 9 per cent 18 per cent on an actual success from our strategy to increase our Access continues to be the undisputed exchange rate basis.
Jacksons life IFRS penetration of the Bumi sector, where we leader in the investment-only variable operating profit grew 10 per cent are the largest provider with a 43 per cent annuity market with APE sales of 18 per cent on an actual exchange rate share of the Takaful market.
In addition to 314 million 2014: 335 million, with the basis to 1,691 million, driven by increased growing the agency force by 13 per cent, proportion of business from non-qualified fee income from higher levels of separate we have increased our activity in accounts representing 69 per cent of the account assets.
The growth in operating bancassurance with APE sales from this total up from 66 per cent in 2014.
With profit underpinned significant levels of channel up 68 per cent.
Overall APE sales 9.6 billion in assets since its launch in capital generation in the year, enabling increased by 17 per cent in the year.
March 2012, Elite Access not only reflects Jackson to remit a record 470 million of Jacksons strength in commercialising a All our other markets have delivered cash to the Group 2014: 415 million, low-cost, no-guarantee product but also good-quality growth.
In the Philippines, while maintaining a healthy balance sheet.
in navigating a demand shift from qualified we have continued to focus on the agency Jacksons risk-based capital ratio at the end to non-qualified accounts.
In relation to channel, with increased manpower and of 2015 was 481 per cent, compared to variable annuities with living benefit higher average case sizes driving APE sales 456 per cent at the end of 2014. guarantees, during 2015 we introduced a growth of 20 per cent in this channel.
broader range of living benefit features to The US economy experienced uneven Overall APE sales were up 9 per cent, policyholders, creating additional product performance during 2015, with a reflecting our decision to be selective in how capacity to meet the underlying customer noticeable deceleration in consumer we participate in bancassurance.
Overall, Jacksons statutory spending and a contraction in business APE sales were up 12 per cent, driven by separate account assets increased by investment in the fourth quarter.
strong growth from our main bancassurance 5 per cent, from 86.5 billion in 2014 to Employment data was more positive, with partners, United Overseas Bank and 91.0 billion in 2015 up 11 per cent on non-farm payrolls in the last two months Thanachart.
Vietnam had an excellent year, an actual exchange rate basis, reflecting of the year exceeding expectations.
This with APE sales growing 32 per cent on positive business flows.
contributed to the Federal Reserve higher levels of agency activity.
Our decision to increase the Federal Funds greenfield operations in Cambodia Jacksons strategy is unchanged, serving target rate by 25 basis points in December.
continue to move ahead well, with APE sales the 75 million US baby boomers as they The S&P 500 Index ended the year roughly up 167 per cent.
While our larger, more enter retirement.
We continue to price new in line with year-end 2014 levels and the established markets are progressing well, business on a conservative basis, targeting 10-year treasury rate rose 10 basis points our ability to execute across the spectrum, value over volume, and the economics of to 2.28 per cent at the end of 2015. covering markets at different stages of our business remain very attractive.
Our development, is key to driving long-term, hedging remains focused on optimising the Overall, in 2015 the US competitive profitable growth in the region.
economics of our exposures over time landscape remained relatively stable, while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
although the industry continued to adjust Our joint venture with ICICI Bank in India Our hedging programme continued to its products and benefits in reaction to remains the leader in the private sector perform well throughout 2015 and under regulatory developments and economic with a market share of 12 per cent and APE the recent volatility experienced in the conditions.
Within variable annuities, sales growth of 21 per cent.
Our credit book is in good shape providers are mainly choosing to modify Korea, we remain selective in our and we have continued to take actions to their product offerings through reductions participation and as a result we are content improve further its quality, increasing our in fund availability and increased fees.
With to tolerate fluctuations in new business treasury position and reducing our a final fiduciary rule expected from the US volumes.
Both businesses have generated high-yield energy exposure.
With this Department of Labor in the first half of a higher level of IFRS operating profit.
strategy, Jackson has been able to deliver 2016, we are working on contingency plans www.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 07 Group Chief Executives report continued significant profitable growth across the and specifically the distinctive PruFund our approach to bulk transactions in the cycle, and since 1 January 2008, has range, with momentum increasing through UK continued to be one of disciplined remitted nearly US$3.3 billion of cash to the year as additional products and participation, focusing on those the Group.
Our performance continues to services came online including PruFund opportunities where we can bring both demonstrate that Jacksons approach has ISA, Flexible Income Drawdown and our significant value to our customers and successfully translated into value for simplified non-advised drawdown Pension meet our shareholder return requirements.
customers and into profits and cash for Choices Plan.
Our capabilities in multiThe implementation of Solvency II has shareholders.
asset investing, the strength of our brand increased significantly the capital intensity and diversified distribution, collectively of annuity business and this will Our businesses and their performance position us well to meet evolving customer significantly reduce our appetite to transact United States page 24 needs in a post-pension freedoms bulk business going forward.
Retail new business UK and Europe In Poland, our life business continues to 4 profit increased by 31 per cent, benefiting Our UK business delivered strong growth grow steadily.
The business now has 18 from increased sales volumes partially in IFRS operating profit, new business branches across the country and 597 offset by a lower contribution from profit and free surplus generation.
Its success individual annuity sales.
APE sales of continue to execute successfully our UK demonstrates our ability to build a new individual annuities decreased by strategy, focusing on our core strength of business franchise by transferring our 46 per cent from 2014 levels to 57 million investment-based retail offerings, selective existing product and distribution strengths and now represent 7 per cent of retail sales.
participation in the wholesale business to new markets.
segment and active management of our Demand for our PruFund multi-asset funds Our strategy in the UK and Europe remains in-force book.
Life IFRS operating profit among our target customer base remains 4 to leverage our investment expertise, was 60 per cent higher at 1,167 million strong as customers continue to be distribution scale and well established and includes 339 million from the positive attracted by both the performance track brand in order to deliver capital-light impact of specific management actions record and the benefits of a smoothed profitable growth in retail investment undertaken in the second half to position return in managing market volatility and products, while managing our in-force the balance sheet more efficiently under reducing customer investment risk.
Our business to generate long-term earnings the new Solvency II regime, which are not successful launch in February 2015 of the and cash.
expected to recur going forward.
Cash PruFund range of investment funds within remitted to the Group increased to an ISA wrapper generated APE sales of Our businesses and their performance 331 million 2014: 325 million.
73 million, with assets under management United Kingdom Insurance and investments page 28 4 totalling 674 million at the end of In 2015, APE sales grew 23 per cent December 2015.
In total across all to 1,025 million, with a consequent Africa 4 products, PruFund APE sales of 23 per cent increase in new business profit During 2015, we continued to develop 574 million increased by 82 per cent, with to 318 million.
These results demonstrate our businesses in Sub-Sahara Africa.
total assets under management having the strength of our customer propositions We entered the Uganda insurance market increased 42 per cent since the start of the in retail risk-managed investment products, through the acquisition of Goldstar Life year to 16.5 billion.
combined with our diversified distribution Assurance in June 2015 and established capability.
In 2015 we continued to Onshore bonds APE sales of 258 million bank distribution agreements with Societe participate in the pensions fide-risking increased by 11 per cent and offshore Generale and Fidelity Bank in Ghana, market in a disciplined manner, and bonds APE sales of 75 million rose by and with Standard Chartered in Kenya.
delivered a robust performance from 21 per cent over the previous year.
In January 2016, we announced entry into this sector.
Reflecting increased demand for our wider Zambia via our acquisition of Professional range of retirement solutions post-pension Life Assurance.
Once regulatory approval Our retail business achieved APE sales reforms, income drawdown APE sales is received for the Zambia acquisition, our growth of 32 per cent to 874 million 2014: 4 have almost trebled to 102 million and footprint in Africa will have expanded to 663 million driven by a growing demand individual pensions APE sales have more four countries with access to nearly 1,300 for our savings and retirement products than doubled to 150 million compared to agents and 200 bank branches.
We continue to diversify our product M&G portfolio in response to the expanding M&Gs focus on producing superior market for flexible retirement income and long-term investment returns, coupled with pensions products.
well established distribution in the UK and Corporate pensions APE sales of across Europe, underpins its financial 152 million were 3 per cent higher than results.
IFRS operating profit of 442 million in 2014.
We remain the largest provider was broadly in line with 2014, with cash of additional voluntary contribution plans remittances to Group of 302 million, up within the public sector, where we provide 6 per cent.
At the end of 2015 M&Gs total schemes for 73 of the 101 public sector funds under management were 7 per cent authorities in the UK 2014: 72 of the 99.
3,050m lower at 246.1 billion 2014: 264 billion, underlying free surplus generation with external funds under management of Our bulk annuity business concluded four 126.4 billion accounting for 51 per cent deals, generating APE sales of 151 million of the total, compared with 45 per cent 2014: 171 million, seven deals, new five years ago.
Despite outflows in 2015, business profit of 117 million 2014: 15% M&Gs total funds under management 105 million and IFRS operating profit of increase on 2014 have grown from 198.3 billion at the end 89 million 2014: 105 million.
In 2015, 08 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Mike Wells with Prudentials Group Executive Committee Standing, left to right: Alan Porter, Jonathan Oliver, John Foley, Michael McLintock, Al-Noor Ramji, Julian Adams, Tim Rolfe.
Seated, left to right: Barry Stowe, Penny James, Mike Wells, Nic Nicandrou, Tony Wilkey.
Further details on page 371. of 2010 to 246.1 billion at the end of 2015, 2015 across a diverse range of fixed Authority of our internal model in reflecting M&Gs continued focus towards income, real estate and alternative December 2015, underscores the strength innovation and asset class diversification.
investment strategies that have yet to be and resilience of the Groups capital invested.
External institutional funds under position.
At 31 December 2015, Group Gross retail and institutional inflows 8,9 management increased 5 per cent in 2015 Solvency II capital surplus was estimated amounted to 33.6 billion 2014: to 65.6 billion 2014: 62.8 billion.
at 9.7 billion, which is equivalent to a 38.0 billion.
Redemptions in the retail Group Solvency II capital ratio of business, however, resulted in overall net M&Gs disciplined approach to cost 193 per cent.
Retail net management is reflected in a small outflows of 10.9 billion 2014: net inflows improvement in the cost-income ratio to Based on the Insurance Groups Directive 9 of 6.7 billion were partially offset by 57 per cent 2014: 58 per cent, despite the solvency measure, our surplus position institutional net inflows of 3.9 billion impact of lower revenues from reductions at 31 December 2015 was estimated at 2014: 0.4 billion.
in the level of average assets managed.
5.5 billion 31 December 2014: 10 4.7 billion, equivalent to a cover of In the fourth quarter of 2015, M&G On 1 February 2016, Michael McLintock 2.5 times.
experienced net retail outflows of announced that he is retiring as Chief 3.5 billion, including 2.4 billion from Executive of M&G Investments after In July 2013, Prudential plc was listed by Europe.
This reflected the continuation of a 19 years in the role.
I would like to thank the Financial Stability Board as one of nine market-wide change in investor sentiment Michael for his exceptional contribution to companies to be designated as a Global away from fixed income, against a M&G over the last two decades.
Under his Systemically Important Insurer, a backdrop of high levels of volatility and leadership M&G has grown to become one classification that was reaffirmed in macroeconomic uncertainties, conditions of Europes largest fund managers by November 2015.
Prudential is monitoring that have continued into the early part of offering innovative investment solutions the development and potential impact of 2016.
Our strategy of diversification by to meet the needs of our customers and the related framework of policy measures asset class has helped attract good net clients.
I wish him all the very best for the and is engaging closely with the Prudential inflows into several M&G multi-asset funds future.
He will be succeeded later this year Regulation Authority on the implications of totalling 2.0 billion and into our retail by Anne Richards, whose prior role was this designation.
Chief Investment Officer and Head of Dividend EMEA at Aberdeen Asset Management.
At the end of 2015, retail funds under Anne joins the Board in June 2016.
The Board has decided to increase the management were 18 per cent lower at full-year ordinary dividend by 5 per cent 60.8 billion 2014: 74.3 billion.
Retail M&G remains focused on producing to 38.78 pence per share, reflecting the funds under management from superior long-term investment returns for continued strong financial performance of Continental Europe represent 39 per cent clients, while continuing to diversify its the Group in 2015.
In line with this, the of total retail assets.
business by geography and asset class and directors have approved a second interim providing capital-efficient profits and cash A track record of innovation in the ordinary dividend of 26.47 pence per share generation for the Group.
institutional market has enabled M&G to 2014: final dividend of 25.74 pence, be at the forefront of a number of specialist Our businesses and their performance which brings the total ordinary dividend for fixed-income markets, including leveraged United Kingdom Asset management page 32 the year to 38.78 pence 2014: finance and infrastructure investment.
In addition, the Board has Capital and risk management Net institutional inflows were 3.9 billion, decided to award a special dividend of compared with 0.4 billion in 2014.
The We continue to take a disciplined approach 10 pence per share reflecting the additional M&G Alpha Opportunities Fund has been contribution to earnings from the specific to capital management and have particularly popular with institutional implemented a number of measures over management actions taken to position the investors, attracting 2.0 billion of net balance sheet more efficiently under the the last few years to enable us to make our inflows during 2015. capital work more efficiently for the Group.
M&G had a multi-billion-pound pipeline of Our Solvency II outcome, following Although the Board has been able to approval by the Prudential Regulation institutional commitments at the end of approve a special dividend of 10 pence per www.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 09 Group Chief Executives report continued share in 2015, the Groups dividend policy outlook for global growth prospects.
While We remain well capitalised with a remains unchanged.
The Board will this creates a headwind for our fee-based defensive, high-quality balance sheet.
maintain its focus on delivering a growing businesses, our progress continues to The disciplined execution of our strategy, ordinary dividend, which will continue to remain underpinned by the structural underpinned by the recurring income and be determined after taking into account the demand for regular premium savings and cash-generating nature of our business, Groups financial flexibility and our protection products in Asia.
Through positions us well to continue to deliver assessment of opportunities to generate proactive management of our product mix sustainable, long-term profitable value to attractive returns by investing in specific and balance sheet and the growing scale of both our customers and shareholders.
The Board believes stable, recurring income from our in-force that in the medium term a dividend cover of portfolio, the Group has the flexibility and around two times is appropriate.
resilience to adapt to changes in the market and deliver robust earnings and shareholder value.
Full-year dividend pence per share The Groups strategy remains centred on Special 10.00 Mike Wells dividend the long-term opportunity of servicing an Group Chief Executive 38.78 36.93 increasingly self-reliant middle class 33.57 29.19 through the provision of savings globally 25.19 and health and protection in Asia.
We have premium franchises in our chosen markets of Asia, the US and the UK, with significant 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 structural competitive advantages to deliver effectively conservative products 5% to protect our consumers health and over 2014 full-year ordinary dividend wealth and provide absolute and good relative returns to our shareholders.
Outlook In Asia, the growing savings and protection The strength of our 2015 results needs of a rapidly emerging and demonstrates the successful execution of increasingly wealthy population underpin our strategy and our distinctive ability to Notes our long-term, structural growth prospects 1 The comparative results referenced above and deliver profitable growth across the cycle.
The high-quality, recurring elsewhere in this document have been prepared Asia remains at the heart of the Group and nature of our income and the scale and using constant exchange rates basis except our progress this year is underlined by the where otherwise stated.
Comparative results on diversity of our pan-regional platform an actual exchange rate basis are also shown in strong growth that we have delivered position us well to smooth out the financial tables in the Chief Financial Officers across sales, earnings and cash from the inevitable country-level fluctuations to report on our 2015 financial performance.
This has been well complemented 2 Recurring income from Asia in-force book deliver value across the cycle.
represents external renewal gross earned by our disciplined progress in our more premiums including joint ventures.
In the US, our business is focused on the mature markets of the US and the UK.
3 Underlying free surplus generation comprises provision of products for the savings and underlying free surplus released from long-term The current significant macroeconomic income needs of the baby boomers business net of investment in new business uncertainty and market instability is and that generated from asset management entering retirement.
The 2012 comparative is based on resulting in a more unpredictable near-term Department of Labor regulations are likely the retrospective application of new and to reduce the access to valuable retirement amended accounting standards and excludes products and services to the American the 2012 one-off gain of 51 million from the sale of the Groups holding in China Life Insurance middle class, our competitive advantages Company of Taiwan.
of superior product performance, low costs 4 Following the disposal of the Groups 25 per cent and strong commercialisation skills align interest in PruHealth and PruProtect in November 2014, the 2014 comparative results of the business well to meet these growing UK insurance operations have been adjusted to needs in the new landscape.
We are in the exclude results of those businesses.
advanced stages of executing our 5 Annual premium equivalent APE sales comprise regular premium sales plus one-tenth contingency plans, which are designed to of single premium insurance sales.
underpin our future prospects for both 6 Asia 2012 IFRS operating profit of 924 million earnings and cash.
is based on the retrospective application of new and amended accounting standards as at In the UK, our life business is proving adept 31 December 2013, and excludes the 2012 one-off gain of 51 million from the sale of the Groups at navigating the significant changes holding in China Life Insurance Company brought about by pension reforms and is of Taiwan.
successfully extending its product offering 7 Source: based on Life Insurance Association, Singapore data as at December 2015. to meet evolving consumer needs.
In asset 8 The methodology and assumptions used in management, M&G is currently calculating the Group Solvency II capital results 9.7bn experiencing headwinds but benefits from are set out in note II c of Additional unaudited Group Solvency II capital surplus its scale and the diversity of its asset base.
The Group Solvency II capital ratio is based on outputs from the Our well regarded brands, investment Groups Solvency II internal model, approved performance track record and strong by the Prudential Regulation Authority in market positioning are key attributes that December 2015.
193% 9 Before allowing for second interim ordinary support our execution in this market.
Group Solvency II capital ratio and special dividends.
10 Before allowing for 2014 final dividend.
10 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Strategic report 12 Ourworld 14 Ourstrategy 15 H owourbusinessworks 16 M  18  18 Asia 24 UnitedStates 28  32  36   49 G  2  57  Prudential RideLondon Ourcommunities In 2015 Prudential RideLondon, the worlds biggest festival of cycling, was a great success, raising more than 12 million for charity.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 11
