Committees The principal Committees of the Board are the Nomination, Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees.
These Committees form a key element of the Group governance framework, facilitating effective independent oversight of the Groups activities by the Non-executive Directors.
Each Committee Chairman provides an update to the Board of each Committee meeting, supported by a short written summary of the Committee business considered.
Nomination Committee report Key committee details Committee members As Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Paul Manduca Chairman I am pleased to report on the Committees Howard Davies activities and focus during 2015.
Ann Godbehere Anthony Nightingale from May 2015 The Nomination Committee ensures that Philip Remnant the Group has appropriate diversity and Lord Turnbull until May 2015 balance of skills and experience on the Board and its committees and that suitable Regular attendees succession planning is in place.
Group Chief Executive During 2015, the Committee carried out Group Human Resources Director a robust process in selecting and Group General Counsel and Company recommending a number of key executives Secretary and non-executives for appointment or Number of meetings in 2015: five role change, namely Mike Wells as Group Chief Executive, Penny James as Group Key responsibilities Chief Risk Officer, Barry Stowe and Tony Keeping under review the leadership Wilkey as business unit Chief Executives needs of the Group and ensuring Paul Manduca and Lord Turner and David Law as suitable Board successions plans Chairman of the Nomination Non-executive Directors.
Committee are in place: Reviewing the size, structure and These appointments demonstrate the composition of the Board including quality of the Committees succession knowledge, experience, diversity, and planning.
The Committee ensured that the making recommendations to the Board Board was able to appoint high-calibre with regard to any changes: candidates, keeping it well positioned to Identifying and nominating candidates, develop and implement our strategy of based on merit and against objective delivering long-term value.
criteria, for approval by the Board to fill The Committee continues to refresh its any Board vacancies: succession planning on an ongoing basis.
Regularly reviewing the independence of the Non-executive Directors: At the request of the Board, and as agreed Reviewing the time required from a with the PRA, the Committee undertook Non-executive Director to fulfil the preparatory work during 2015 in order to obligations of the position: put in place independent chairs and Recommending to the Board the directors on certain of the Groups re-appointment of any Non-executive subsidiary boards.
From February 2016, Director at the conclusion of their the duties of the Committee were specified term of office and making extended to reflect new responsibilities in recommendations as to their re-election relation to the governance arrangements by shareholders: for such subsidiary boards and the Considering and authorising any actual or independent chairs and directors.
potential situational conflicts arising from The Committee has been re-named the either new or existing appointments.
Nomination & Governance Committee to reflect these new duties.
86 Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information How the Committee discharged its responsibilities during 2015 Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Succession planning The Committee kept succession plans for executive and non-executive Board roles under continuous review.
Appointments Non-executive Directors During 2015, the Committee led a search for additional candidates to be appointed to the Board as Non-executive Directors, in order to ensure Board composition was progressively refreshed, assisted by Egon Zehnder as the search consultant.
An initial list of candidates was provided to the Committee and comments fed back to the Chairman.
A shortlist was prepared and the Committee agreed that the Chairman would continue the search process.
The Chairman coordinated the continued search, keeping the other Committee members closely involved in the process.
This included conversations with potential candidates, who met the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and other members of the Committee, including the Senior Independent Director and key management.
The Board was kept regularly updated on progress.
Mr Law and Lord Turner were identified through this process.
Mr Law has excellent knowledge and in-depth experience of the issues in the financial services industry gained throughout his lengthy career at PwC which included five years as Global Leader of their insurance practice.
He also has extensive experience working with clients in an industry regulated by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
Lord Turner has held a number of non-executive positions since 2000, which provided him with extensive involvement in audit, risk and remuneration committees across a range of industries.
He has in-depth knowledge of financial services gained during his appointment as Chairman of the FSA 2008-2013 and as non-executive director of the Bank of England.
The Committee recommended the appointment of Mr Law and Lord Turner to the Board for approval.
Executive Directors The Committee also led searches for the executive Board vacancies which arose during the year.
During 2015, the appointments of the Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Executives of the Northern American, Asian and UK & Europe businesses were recommended by the Committee.
Egon Zehnder were again appointed as the search consultant to review the external market and, where required, to provide support in the assessment of internal candidates.
Initial longlists of potential internal and external candidates were considered.
After a review of the longlists, shortlisted candidates met the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and other members of the Committee, including the Senior Independent Director and key management where appropriate.
Additionally, candidates were assessed by Egon Zehnder against the role specification requirements.
The outcomes of these searches are set out below.
Mr Wells was selected for the role of Group Chief Executive.
Mr Wells has served on the Board since January 2011 as President and Chief Executive of Jackson.
He has extensive experience of life insurance, retirement services and asset management, having worked in the sector for 29 years, with 20 of those years spent in senior and strategic positions at Jackson.
Mr Stowe was selected as Chairman and Chief Executive of the North American business unit.
He had served on the Board since November 2006 as Chief Executive of Prudential Corporation Asia and altogether has 35 years of experience of leading life insurance organisations in the US and Asia.
Mr Wilkey was selected as Chief Executive, Prudential Corporation Asia.
He has 28 years of experience in life insurance.
Prior to joining Prudential in 2006 as Chief Executive, Insurance, at Prudential Corporation Asia, Mr Wilkey was Deputy President and Chief Operating Officer of American International Assurance AIA, responsible for AIAs life companies in South East Asia.
Ms James was selected as Group Chief Risk Officer.
She previously served as Director of Group Finance, responsible for the delivery of the Groups financial results, business planning and performance monitoring.
In that role, she also led Prudentials Solvency II programme and was a member of the Group Executive Risk Committee.
Mr Foley was selected as Chief Executive, UK & Europe in January 2016.
He has more than 35 years experience and an in-depth knowledge of Prudential UK & Europe.
Mr Foley acted as Interim Chief Executive of the UK & Europe business from October 2015 in addition to his duties as Group Investment Director.
Between 2011 and 2013, he served on the Companys Board as Group Chief Risk Officer.
Ms Richards will join Prudential as successor to Mr McLintock as Chief Executive of M&G Investments.
Mr McLintock announced in February 2016 his intention to retire from the Board.
Ms Richards joins from Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, where she held the position of Chief Investment Officer and was responsible for operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
She has held senior roles at JP Morgan Investment Management, Mercury Asset Management and Edinburgh Fund Managers.
The Board was kept informed throughout the process and the Committee recommended the appointment of Mr Wells, Mr Stowe, Mr Foley, Mr Wilkey, Ms James and Ms Richards to the Board for approval.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 87 Committees continued How the Committee discharged its responsibilities during 2015 continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Re-election of directors As part of its ongoing work on Board succession planning, the Committee considered the terms of appointment for the Chairman, Committee Chairmen and Non-executive Directors taking into account time commitment and the general balance of skills, experience and knowledge on the Board and assessing length of service in their roles.
Having reviewed the performance of relevant Non-executive Directors in office at the time, the Committee recommended to the Board that those Non-executive Directors should stand for re-election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman was appointed by the Board in July 2012 for an initial three-year term, which expired in 2015.
The performance of the Chairman is reviewed annually through a process led by the Senior Independent Director.
Following review in 2015, the Committee, led by the Senior Independent Director, recommended to the Board that the Chairman be appointed for a further term of three years expiring in 2018, subject to re-election by shareholders.
The Committee further considered the term of appointment of Ann Godbehere, who has been a Non-executive Director since 2007 and Chairman of the Audit Committee from 2010.
In line with corporate governance guidelines, any reviews of Non-executive Director terms beyond six years are particularly rigorous.
The Committee invited Ann to serve an additional year expiring at the conclusion of the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Alistair Johnston and Kai Nargolwala completed their first term of three years following their initial appointment by shareholders at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Following performance evaluation by the Committee and re-election by shareholders in 2015, both were invited to serve a further term of three years, expiring at the conclusion of the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Independence The Committee considered the independence of the Non-executive Directors against relevant requirements as outlined on page 82.
The Board has delegated authority to the Committee to consider, and authorise where necessary, Conflicts of interest any actual or potential conflicts of interest in accordance with relevant legislation, the provisions in the Companys Articles and the procedures approved by the Board.
In February 2016, the Committee considered the external appointments of all Directors and reviewed existing conflict authorisations, reaffirming or updating any terms or conditions attached to authorisations where required.
New positions were reviewed during the year as they arose and conflicts authorised as relevant.
Governance Committee effectiveness The effectiveness of the Committee was assessed as part of the overall performance evaluation of the Board.
This assessment confirmed that the Committee continued to operate effectively during the year.
More information on the Board evaluation can be found on page 80.
Group subsidiaries At the request of the Board, and as agreed with the PRA, the Committee undertook preparatory work during 2015 in order to put in place independent chairs and directors on certain of the Groups subsidiary boards.
From February 2016, the duties of the Committee were extended to reflect the new responsibilities in relation to the governance arrangements for such subsidiary boards and the independent chairs and directors.
The Committee has been re-named the Nomination & Governance Committee to reflect these new duties.
Terms of reference The Committee considered and made recommendations to the Board regarding its terms of reference during the year.
The terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, can be found on the Companys website www.
co. uk These recommendations included provisions setting out the Committees new duties in respect of independent directors of certain of the Groups subsidiaries.
88 Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Audit Committee report Key committee details Committee members As Chairman of the Audit Committee, Ann Godbehere Chairman I am pleased to report on the Committees Howard Davies activities and areas of focus during 2015.
Alistair Johnston David Law from September 2015 The Audit Committee plays a vital role Philip Remnant in Prudentials governance, one that is Alice Schroeder becoming increasingly important as the Group continues to grow in size and Regular attendees complexity.
The Committees responsibility Chairman of the Board for overseeing financial reporting, Group Chief Executive supervising the effectiveness of internal Chief Financial Officer control systems and monitoring the Group Chief Risk Officer independence of the auditor, places it at Group Regulatory and Government the centre of our ongoing drive to ensure Affairs Director that the Groups governance is as rigorous, Group General Counsel and Company transparent and effective as possible.
Secretary During 2015, the Committee continued to Director of Group Compliance Ann Godbehere focus closely on its core responsibilities Director of Group-wide Internal Audit Chairman of the Audit Committee around financial reporting, internal controls External Audit Partner and oversight of assurance work, including Number of meetings in 2015: 10 Sarbanes-Oxley certifications.
At the same In addition two joint meetings were held time, we addressed the implications for with the Risk Committee.
the Group of emerging regulatory requirements, among them the Key responsibilities implementation of the Solvency II regime, Monitoring the integrity of the Groups the new guidance affecting going concern Annual Report and Accounts and any and the requirement for a statement on other periodic financial reporting, longer-term viability as well as the reviewing the accounting policies forthcoming new rules governing audit adopted, decisions taken regarding rotation and tender.
major areas of judgement and the going The Committee has continued to ensure concern assumption: that the Groups financial reporting remains Reviewing and providing advice to the clear, accurate and informative.
We have Board as to whether the Groups Annual worked closely with the Risk Committee Report and Accounts are fair, balanced to provide an integrated approach to risk and understandable: assurance and management.
Keeping under review the framework and effectiveness of the Groups As part of our business as usual activities, systems of internal control and we have met regularly with the Group-wide approving the statements to be Internal Audit Director and the External included in financial reports concerning Audit Partner.
their effectiveness: During the year, we welcomed Assessing the performance, David Law as an additional member independence and objectivity of the of the Audit Committee.
external auditor, making recommendations to the Board regarding their appointment and approving their terms of engagement: Reviewing the effectiveness and performance of the service provided by the internal audit function and approving the internal audit programme: Considering the effectiveness of compliance arrangements across the Group and approving the annual compliance plan: Reviewing procedures for managing allegations from whistleblowers and arrangements for employees to raise any concerns about possible financial reporting improprieties: Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group Governance framework and any material approvals for deviations from the Groups governance policies: Approving the standard terms of reference for the Business Unit audit committees and annually reviewing their effectiveness.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 89 Committees continued How the Committee discharged its responsibilities during 2015 Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Financial reporting The Committee assessed whether appropriate accounting policies had been adopted throughout Overview the accounting period and whether management had made appropriate estimates and judgements over recognition, measurement and presentation of the financial results.
There were no new or altered accounting standards in 2015 that had a material effect on the Groups financial statements.
The Committee also focused on the accounting for material transactions, clarity of disclosures in financial reports, the going concern assumptions, and compliance with accounting standards and obligations under applicable laws, regulations and governance codes.
As part of this focus, it reviewed the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code with particular attention given to the Groups planned disclosures on the required new statement discussing the longer-term viability of the Group.
The Committee further considered the fair, balanced and understandable requirement under the UK Code, providing advice to the Board in respect of this requirement.
Key assumptions and The Committee reviewed the key assumptions and judgements made in valuing the Groups judgements investments, insurance liabilities and deferred acquisition costs under IFRS, together with reports on the operation of internal controls to derive these amounts.
It also reviewed the assumptions underpinning the Groups European Embedded Value EEV metrics.
The Committee considered information, including peer comparisons if relevant and available, on the following key assumptions: Persistency, mortality, morbidity and expense assumptions within the Asia life businesses: Economic and policyholder behaviour assumptions affecting the measurement of Jackson guarantee liabilities and amortisation of deferred acquisition costs: and Mortality and credit risk for UK annuity business.
The Committee also received information on the nature of goodwill and intangible asset values and the carrying value of investments in the Groups balance sheet.
In relation to investments, this included the results of independent valuations by the external auditor.
No significant issues arose in respect of these items.
Other financial reporting The Audit Committee also considered the nature of non-recurrent items and judgemental matters matters regarding provisions for certain open tax items.
The Committee was satisfied that managements approach was reasonable in these areas.
The Committee considered various analyses from management regarding Group and subsidiary capital and liquidity prior to recommending to the Board that it could conclude that the financial statements should continue to be prepared on the going concern basis and the disclosures on the Groups longer-term viability were both reasonable and appropriate.
As part of its assessment of the description of performance within the Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee considered judgemental aspects of the Groups reporting across the Groups IFRS and EEV metrics.
This assessment included a review to ensure that the allocation of items between operating and non-operating profit was in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The Committee considered the impact of equity and interest rate movements on the IFRS results of the Groups US business and, after discussion, the Committee was satisfied that the presentation and disclosure of such impacts was appropriate and consistent with prior periods.
In addition, in relation to the Groups supplementary reporting on the EEV basis, the Committee considered the appropriateness of the economic assumptions underpinning the projected rates of return and risk discount rates, and of changes to EEV operating assumptions and the level of operating experience variances.
It also reviewed the impact of changes to the Groups EEV as a result of changes to the UK corporation tax rate enacted in the last quarter of 2015.
The Committee was satisfied that the assumptions adopted by the Group were appropriate.
In relation to the Groups Solvency II disclosures, the Committee considered managements planned approach to disclosures in advance of formal implementation of Solvency II at 1 January 2016 in conjunction with the Group Risk Committee.
It considered detailed papers in advance of the December announcement of internal model approval by the PRA and the Investor Day presentation in January 2016.
It also reviewed the methodology for the basis of calculation and the disclosures within the supplementary information included in the full-year results announcement and Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee concluded the disclosure was reasonable.
90 Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Other financial reporting The Committee considered the effects of volatility in equity market movements, and changes in matters continued interest and foreign currency translation rates on the Groups results.
The impact of these marketdriven effects on the accounting, presentation and disclosure of the Groups longer-term investment return assumptions and short-term fluctuations in investment return was an area of focus.
For all the above areas, the Committee received input from management and the external auditor prior to reaching its conclusions.
In addition to these reporting matters, the Committee also received and considered regular updates from management on the status and implications for the Group of financial reporting developments, including updates on discussions by the International Accounting Standards Board on the development of the Phase II Insurance Standard and proposed Overlay and Temporary Exemption options to permit altered presentation of the profit and loss account or deferral of IFRS 9 by insurers.
In conjunction with the Risk Committee, the Committee considered the outcome of the annual Internal control review of the systems of internal control and risk management.
The report considered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and reflected changes in the UK Code which became effective for financial years commencing on or after 1 October 2014.
Having considered the review, the Committee made recommendations to the Board regarding the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems in place.
The Boards statement regarding effectiveness of these systems can be found on page 84.
The Groups external auditor is KPMG LLP and oversight of the relationship with them is one of the External audit Committees key responsibilities.
The Committee approved KPMGs terms of engagement for the statutory audit, and approved fees for both audit and non-audit services in accordance with the Groups policy.
External audit To assess the effectiveness of the auditor, the Committee reviewed the audit approach and strategy effectiveness and received an internal report on their performance.
They also considered findings contained in a report issued following inspection of KPMGs audit by the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review team.
The Committee discussed the findings of this external report and the actions undertaken by KPMG to address the matters raised as part of the 2015 audit.
It agreed that the audit was effective overall and that any identified areas for further improvement had been addressed or had appropriate action plans in place.
The internal evaluation was conducted using a questionnaire which was circulated to the Committee, the Chief Financial Officer and the Groups senior financial leadership for completion.
In total, 80 people provided input on the performance of the auditor.
The feedback provided was reviewed and compiled into a report for the Committee which covered areas such as the knowledge and expertise of the partners and team members, their understanding of the Group, the resourcing applied to the audit and continuity of the team, liaison with Group-wide internal audit and approach to resolution of issues, as well as factors such as their coordination across the Groups multiple jurisdictions and quality of their written and oral communication.
The degree of challenge and robustness of approach to the audit were key components of the evaluation.
The Committee Chairman invited other Group stakeholders to provide their views on the performance of the auditor, and KPMG was given the opportunity to respond to the findings in the report.
On completion of the activities outlined above, the Committee concluded that the audit had been effective and the challenge appropriately robust across all parts of the Group.
Auditor independence The Committee has responsibility for monitoring auditor independence and objectivity and is and objectivity supported in doing so by the Groups Auditor Independence Policy the Policy.
The Policy is updated annually and approved by the Committee.
It sets out the circumstances in which the external auditor may be permitted to undertake non-audit services and is based on four key principles which specify that the auditor should not: Audit its own firms work: Make management decisions for the Group: Have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group: or Be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 91 Committees continued How the Committee discharged its responsibilities during 2015 continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Auditor independence The Policy has two permissible service types: those that require specific approval by the Committee and objectivity continued on an engagement basis and those that are pre-approved by the Committee with an annual monetary limit.
In accordance with the Policy, the Committee approved these permissible services, classified as either audit or non-audit services, and monitored the annual limits on a quarterly basis.
All non-audit services undertaken by KPMG were agreed prior to the commencement of work and were confirmed as permissible for the external auditor to undertake under the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
During the year, the Committee considered updates to the policy required to reflect proposed changes to permissible non-audit services issued for consultation by the Financial Reporting Council, in connection with the implementation of broader EU reforms to the audit market.
This will include adopting the schedule of prohibited non-audit services specified in the EU directive.
The proposed changes will begin to be implemented during the 2016 reporting period in preparation for the required full implementation for 2017.
In keeping with professional ethical standards, KPMG also confirmed their independence to the Committee and set out the supporting evidence for their conclusion in a report which was considered by the Committee prior to the publication of the financial results.
Fees paid to the auditor The fees paid to KPMG for the year ended 31 December 2015 amounted to 16.6 million 2014: 16.6 million of which 4.3 million 2014: 5.1 million was payable in respect of non-audit services.
Non-audit services accounted for 26 per cent of total fees payable 2014: 31 per cent.
A breakdown of the fees paid to KPMG can be found in Note B3.4 to the financial statements on page 171.
Of the 4.3 million of non-audit services, the principal types of non-audit engagements approved for 2015 were tax compliance services of 0.7 million, other assurance services of 2.2 million mainly in connection with Solvency II reporting and disclosures, corporate finance services of 0.2 million and other non-audit services of 1.2 million which mainly consist of risk management services and Solvency II internal model validation work.
Total Solvency II assurance and validation fees payable for the year to KPMG were 1.9 million 2014: 1.4 million.
The Committee considered that the Solvency II assurance work is most appropriately completed by the auditor as it builds on the expertise gained from KPMGs core audit work from their insight into the Groups systems, processes and controls, driving significant synergies.
As explained above, following the introduction of the EU reforms and the adoption of these in the Companys 2016 Auditor Independence Policy we do not expect significant use of KPMG for tax services from 2016.
Re-appointment Based on the outcome of the effectiveness evaluation and all other considerations, the Committee recommended to the Board that KPMG be re-appointed as the auditor.
A resolution to this effect will be proposed to shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Audit tender The external audit was last put out to competitive re-tender in 1999 when the present auditor, KPMG, was appointed.
Since 2005, the Committee has annually considered the need to re-tender the external audit service and it again considered this in February 2016, concluding that there was nothing in the performance of the auditor which required such a tender.
The Committee acknowledges the provisions contained in the UK Code in respect of audit tendering, along with European rules on mandatory audit rotation and audit tendering.
In light of this, and conforming to the requirements of the EU rules, the Company will be required to change auditor no later than for the 2023 financial year end.
The Committee also recognises that the industry is in a period of unprecedented change with the introduction of Solvency II from this January and the IASB expecting to issue a new insurance accounting standard for implementation not before 2019.
The Committee currently believes any change of auditor should be scheduled to limit operational disruption during such a period of change and, as a consequence, is not currently planning to re-tender the audit ahead of 2019, subject to the Committees normal annual review.
In line with the Auditing Practices Board Ethical Statements and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, a new lead audit partner is appointed every five years.
A new lead audit partner was appointed in respect of the 2012 financial year who will be replaced post 2016 reporting.
92 Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Internal audit Regular reporting The independent assurance provided by Group-wide Internal Audit formed a fundamental part of the Committees deliberations on the Groups overall control environment.
The Committee received regular updates on audits conducted and managements progress in addressing audit findings.
Each of the Groups business units has an internal audit team, the heads of which report to the Director of Group-wide Internal Audit.
The function also has a Quality Assurance Director, whose primary role is to monitor and evaluate adherence to industry practice guidelines and Group-wide Internal Audits own standards and methodology.
Internal audit resources, plans, budgets and its work are overseen by both the Committee and the relevant business unit audit committee.
The Director of Group-wide Internal Audit reports functionally to the Chairman of the Committee and, for management purposes, to the Group Chief Executive.
Annual plan and focus for The Committee approved the half-year update of the 2015 plan.
It also considered and approved the 2016 Internal Audit plan, resource and budget for 2016.
At the half year, the Committee considered recommendations to refresh the Audit plan in response to changes in the Business Unit operating environments and an update to the Groups top risks.
The 2016 Plan was formulated based on a bottom-up risk assessment of audit needs mapped to the Group Risk Framework.
It also considered a top-down challenge by GwIA Leadership Team of the extent of coverage of key themes, ensuring extensive coverage of Group Tier 1 and Tier 2 top risks as identified by the Group Risk Committee and delivering audit coverage of other key areas of risk within a tiered cycle of coverage ie twothreeand four-year cycles.
Internal audit In addition to the periodic external effectiveness review required every five years last conducted effectiveness in 2012, the Committee annually assesses the performance and effectiveness of the internal audit function.
A 2015 internal effectiveness review, performed by the Group-wide Internal Audit Quality Assurance Director, was conducted in accordance with the professional practice standards of the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors CIIA.
The review concluded that Group-wide Internal Audit continues to comply with the requirements of internal audit policies, procedures and practices, and standards in all material respects relating to audit planning and execution, and continued to be aligned with its mandated objectives and maintained general conformance with the CIIA guidance for Effective Internal Audit in the Financial Services Sector.
Having considered the findings of the 2015 internal effectiveness review, the Committee concluded that Group-wide Internal Audit had continued to operate in compliance with the requirements of Group-wide Internal Audit policies, procedures and practice standards in all material respects and remained aligned to mandated objectives during 2015.
BU audit committee The Committee is supported by the work carried out by the business unit audit committees and effectiveness annually reviews the effectiveness of these committees.
These committees provide oversight of the respective business units.
During the year, membership comprised senior management who were independent of the Business Unit and in some cases included independent Non-executive Directors.
The minutes of these committees were provided to the Committee and their meetings were attended by the external auditor as well as senior management from the business unit including the Business Unit Chief Executive, heads of Finance, Risk, Compliance and Group-wide Internal Audit.
The Committees assessment of the Business Unit audit committees was carried out by local teams from Group-wide Internal Audit and considered whether each of the committees fulfilled the responsibilities documented in their terms of reference.
Attendance rates by committee members and evidence of the committees coverage of key business unit issues, as well as the appropriate escalation of concerns to the Committee, formed part of the criteria used for the evaluation.
BU model terms of The Committee approved the Groups standard terms of reference for business unit audit reference committees, which were updated to reflect changes in the Committees own responsibilities to align them with best practice.
These were adopted by the business unit audit committees with minor variations to address local regulations or the particular requirements of the business.
Group compliance Regular updates were provided to the Committee by the Group Regulatory and Government Affairs Director and the Director of Group Compliance.
The reports kept the Committee apprised of Regular reporting communications with the principal UK regulators, international regulatory developments and compliance with the Groups Compliance policies.
The introduction of the new Senior Insurance Managers Regime SIMR, the PRAs workplan for Prudential and the US Department of Labors consultation on fiduciary duties were areas of focus for the Committee.
Group Compliance led the development of the Groups framework for the implementation of the new SIMR regime and kept the Committee updated on developments in this area.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 93 Committees continued How the Committee discharged its responsibilities during 2015 continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Compliance plan and The Committee considered and approved the 2016 Group Compliance Plan.
Areas of focus focus for 2016 included strengthening the compliance framework, a focus on key risk drivers which have caused compliance issues across the industry, including: conflicts of interest: culture, values and the fair treatment of customers: the articulation of compliance risk appetite: and the assessment and mitigation of key risks, including anti-money laundering and sanctions, continued proactive engagement with the PRA and FCA and a number of Business Unit-specific risk areas, which were cascaded down to the Business Units for implementation and oversight by the respective Business Unit audit committees.
In 2016, Group Compliance intends to take forward the policy initiatives developed in 2015 and to review and refresh the Group Compliance Policy standards against which Business Units are assessed.
Financial crime The Committee received the Money Laundering Prevention Officers report which assessed the operation and effectiveness of the Groups systems and controls in relation to managing money laundering and sanctions risk.
The Committee noted the regulatory developments relating to the strengthening of the regimes in Asia ahead of various Financial Action Task Force reviews and the drive for transparency of beneficial ownership, led by the G20 and UK regulators.
Whistleblowing Regular updates were provided to the Committee on matters raised through the Groups Confidential Reporting Lines and the actions taken in response to these.
The role of the whistleblowing champion for the purpose of SIMR will be carried out by the Chair of the UK business unit risk committee.
At Group level, the Chair of the Group Audit Committee remains responsible for oversight of whistleblowing activities across the whole of the Group.
Group Governance The Group Governance Framework links together internal controls, authorisation requirements, Framework Business Unit reporting and escalation, as well as the policies adopted by the Group.
The Framework comprises a central repository of information, the Group Governance Manual, which contains these controls, plus a number of processes to ensure polices remain accurate and up to date.
The Group Governance Manual is also used to promote awareness and educate colleagues across the Group about their obligations.
Procedures to assess to what extent all Business Units in the Group meet these obligations are in place and the outcome is monitored by the Committee.
The Committee reviewed the outcomes of the Governance Quality Assurance reviews undertaken during 2015, the update on the annual Group Governance Manual content review and results of the year-end certification of compliance with the Group Governance Manual requirements for the period ended 31 December 2015.
Governance The Committee reviewed compliance with various applicable regulations and codes of conduct.
Committee effectiveness The results of this assessment were presented to the meeting in February 2016.
The effectiveness of the Committee was assessed as part of the overall performance evaluation of the Board.
Private meetings Periodically during the year, the Committee met with each of the external and internal auditors and with Group Security without the presence of management.
co. uk These recommendations reflected the Committees new responsibilities regarding the longer-term viability statement and auditor rotation.
94 Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Risk Committee report Key committee details Committee members As Chairman of the Risk Committee, Howard Davies Chairman I am pleased to report on the Committees Ann Godbehere activities and focus during 2015.
Kai Nargolwala Lord Turner from September 2015 The Committees work has contributed Lord Turnbull until May 2015 to the Boards understanding of the risks facing the business and shaping our risk Regular attendees appetite.
During the year, the Committee Chairman of the Board oversaw a number of initiatives to Group Chief Executive strengthen further the Groups processes Chief Financial Officer and capabilities around reporting and Group Chief Risk Officer managing risk.
Group Regulatory and Government Alongside regular monitoring of the Affairs Director application of, and compliance with, the Group General Counsel and Company Group Risk Framework, we ensured that Secretary the Group was fully prepared for the Group Investment Director introduction of Solvency II.
This included Director of Group-wide Internal Audit Howard Davies reviewing the methodology and calibration Chairman of the Risk Committee Number of meetings in 2015: Six of the internal model, receiving reports on In addition two joint meetings were held the independent validation of the model, with the Audit Committee.
monitoring progress towards the Prudential Regulation Authoritys approval Key responsibilities of the model, reviewing the Groups Own Recommending the Groups overall risk Risk and Solvency Assessment, progress appetite to the Board for approval: towards wider Solvency II compliance and Reviewing the Groups risk and the governance framework for approving investment frameworks and approving disclosures.
the policies forming part of the We have worked closely with the Audit frameworks: Committee to provide risk oversight Reviewing the Groups material risk throughout the Group to ensure an exposures against the risk integrated approach.
methodologies and managements actions to monitor and control such The Committee also oversaw the work exposures: required as a result of the Groups Reviewing the Groups stress testing: designation as a Global Systemically Reviewing the overall effectiveness of Important Insurer, including the the Internal Model used for the development of the Systemic Risk purposes of the Solvency II regime and Management Plan, the Liquidity Risk making recommendations to the Board Management Plan and the Recovery Plan.
as required in respect of changes to the As part of our regular work schedule, we Model: conducted an assessment of our stressAdvising the Board on the risks inherent testing processes, again working closely in strategic acquisitions and the with the Audit Committee on any areas of business plan: overlap.
We monitored the operation of the Advising the Remuneration Committee three lines of defence system operating on risk weightings to be applied to throughout the Group and received regular performance objectives for Executive reports from the chief risk officers of the remuneration: business units who attended our meetings, Monitoring the effectiveness of the following up those reports as appropriate Group Chief Risk Officer.
with detailed reviews of areas where concerns were reported.
During the year, we welcomed Lord Turner as a Committee member and Penny James as our Group Chief Risk Officer.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 95 Committees continued How the Committee discharged its responsibilities during 2015 Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Risk appetite The Committee considered the Groups risk appetite including conducting a benchmarking exercise undertaken against comparator businesses considered relevant in terms of size, complexity, geography and business lines.
Having reviewed the report and taking account of the Groups business environment, the Committee concluded that the current risk metrics continued to be appropriate.
The Committee considered the effect of the introduction of Solvency II, and recommended alterations to the Groups risk appetite to the Board, reflecting the introduction of the new capital metric.
The Committee received deep dive reports on areas of interest from across the Group and carried Risk management out post-transaction reviews of certain of the Groups transactions.
The Group Risk Development Plan for the year was considered and approved by the Committee.
The Plan underpins the ongoing enhancement of the Group Risk Framework and drives the development of the Group Risk functions capability across the Group.
The Plan included recommendations aimed at further embedding the Economic Capital model in risk processes and decision making, enhancing the understanding and interpretation of the Group Risk Framework and the review of the appropriateness of the limit framework, the development of the risk appetite to reflect the introduction of Solvency II and certain enhancements to the limit framework.
The Committee was provided with regular updates from the Group Treasury function as part of its oversight of liquidity management.
It also received reports from Group-wide Internal Audit, minutes from the Group Executive Risk Committee and matters escalated by other Group-level risk management committees.
Group top risks The Committee evaluated the Groups top risks, considering recommendations for promoting additional risks, expanding the scope of existing risks and removing those risks no longer requiring particular focus from the Committee.
The Committee received regular reporting on these risks and mitigating actions.
The Group Chief Risk Officer regularly provided the Committee with updates on market conditions likely to have an impact on Group and policyholder investments, such as the implications of a sustained low-interest-rate environment and falling oil prices.
The Group Chief Risk Officer regularly reported to the Committee on compliance with the Group Risk Framework and the composition of the Groups Watch Lists of credit counterparties.
The Group Chief Risk Officers reports also provided the Committee with regulatory updates, particularly regarding Solvency II and submission of the Groups Internal Model to the PRA, development of the Groups global capital standards and the deliverables required as a result of the Groups designation as a Global Systemically Important Insurer.
Solvency II and Pillar 3 The Committee considered the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment report based on the outcomes reporting of the Groups 2015-17 Business Plan and the FY14 risk and solvency positions prior to its approval by the Board.
The report was also considered in light of the results of the Groups regular stress testing.
The 2015 Own Risk and Solvency Assessment report enhanced the 2014 report through improved alignment with business planning and strategy processes and better linkage with the Groups risk profile.
The Committee continued to oversee the submission of the Groups Internal Model Approval Process application, including reviewing the methodology and assumptions in the model and receiving input from the independent model validation team and made recommendations to the Board in respect of its submission to the PRA.
The Committee also considered and provided feedback on the overall governance process and the approach to the disclosures of the internal model outcome.
This activity was undertaken working closely with the Audit Committee.
Global Systemically In light of its designation as a Global Systemically Important Insurer, the Company is required to Important Insurer annually agree a number of deliverables with its Crisis Management Group consisting of the Groups principal regulators.
The Committee played a key part in considering and approving a number of these including the Groups Liquidity Risk Management Plan, Systemic Risk Management Plan and Recovery Plan.
96 Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Reverse Stress Testing The Reverse Stress Test exercise was carried out to confirm the Groups position as being significantly resilient to certain business failure scenarios.
The report related to the Groups year-end 2015 position and was submitted to the PRA.
In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Committee reviewed the outcome of the annual Internal control and risk management review of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management.
The effectiveness of the Committee was assessed as part of the overall performance evaluation of Governance the Board.
This assessment confirmed that the Committee continued to operate effectively during Committee effectiveness the year.
co. uk These recommendations incorporated changes to reflect the Committees role in assessing the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Model and making recommendations to the Board regarding proposed changes to the Groups Internal Model.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 97
