How we operate Board roles Chairman Paul Manduca The Chairman has overall responsibility for leadership of the Board and ensuring its overall effectiveness.
He sets the Boards agendas to ensure the Board has adequate time for discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
The Chairman promotes a culture of openness and debate, and fosters constructive relations between Executive and Non-executive Directors.
The Chairman ensures directors receive relevant information in a timely fashion.
Externally, the Chairman is a key contact for shareholders to discuss governance and strategy.
Group Chief Executive Senior Independent Director Committee Chairs Mike Wells Philip Remnant Paul Manduca, Howard Davies, The Group Chief Executive is responsible The Senior Independent Director acts as a Ann Godbehere, Anthony Nightingale for the operational management of the sounding board for the Chairman and is The committee chairs are responsible for Group on behalf of the Board and for available to shareholders to address any the leadership and governance of the ensuring the implementation of the concerns or issues not resolved through Boards principal committees and report Boards decisions.
The Group Chief normal channels.
matters of significance to the Board.
Executive leads the Executive Directors The Senior Independent Director leads and other senior executives in the the Non-executive Directors in conducting management of all aspects of the day to the Chairmans annual evaluation.
day business of the Group.
The Group Chief Executive ensures that the Chairman is kept informed of all key issues.
The Board is collectively responsible for The Board has terms of reference which the long-term success of the Group and for specifically set out matters reserved for its providing leadership within a framework decision.
These include matters such as of effective controls.
The control approving the Groups strategy and environment enables the Board to identify monitoring its implementation, the significant risks and apply appropriate approval of annual budgets and business measures to manage and mitigate them.
plans, as well as the risk appetite of the The Board is responsible for approving the Group and its capital and liquidity Group strategy and for ensuring that the positions.
The Board has approved a Group is suitably resourced to achieve it.
governance framework that requires all In doing so, the Board takes account of business units to seek authority from the its responsibilities to the Groups Board to carry out actions exceeding stakeholders, including its shareholders, pre-determined limits.
employees, suppliers and the communities The Board has delegated authority to a in which Prudential operates.
number of Board Committees which assist The Non-executive Directors are the Board in delivering its responsibilities responsible for constructively challenging, and ensuring that there is appropriate and helping to develop, proposals on independent oversight of internal control Group strategy, offering input based on and risk management.
They Authority for the operational management scrutinise the performance of management of the Groups businesses has been in meeting agreed goals and objectives and delegated to the Group Chief Executive for take on specific duties as members of the execution or further delegation by him in Boards principal Committees.
respect of matters which are necessary for the effective day-to-day running and management of the business.
The chief executive of each business unit has responsibility for the management of that business unit.
76 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Changes to Board roles and membership During 2015, and in the year to date, Board roles and membership changed as follows: Board changes Role changes Tidjane Thiam stepped down as Group Chief Executive and Anthony Nightingale took on the role of the Chair of the Executive Director May 2015.
Remuneration Committee and was appointed as a member of the Nomination Committee, continuing in his role as Lord Turnbull stepped down as Chairman of the Non-executive Director May 2015.
Remuneration Committee, member of the Nomination Mike Wells, previously President and Chief Executive Officer Committee and Non-executive Director May 2015. of Jackson National Life Insurance Company, became Group Pierre-Olivier Boue stepped down as Executive Director Chief Executive, continuing in his role as Executive Director May 2015 and as Group Chief Risk Officer June 2015.
Tony Wilkey, previously Chief Executive of Prudential Barry Stowe, previously Chief Executive of Prudential Corporation Asias network of life insurance operations, Corporation Asia, became Chairman and Chief Executive was appointed as Executive Director of Prudential plc and Officer of the North American Business Unit, continuing in Chief Executive, Prudential Corporation Asia June 2015. his role as Executive Director June 2015.
Penny James, previously Director of Group Finance, was appointed as Executive Director and Group Chief Risk Officer September 2015.
David Law and Lord Turner were appointed as Non-executive Directors September 2015.
Jackie Hunts departure as Chief Executive, Prudential UK & Europe was announced October 2015 and Ms Hunt resigned as Executive Director November 2015.
John Foley, previously Group Investment Director, was appointed as Executive Director and Chief Executive of Prudential UK & Europe January 2016.
The current Directors biographies, including the skills and experience they bring to the Board, can be found on pages 71 to 76.
Mr McLintock has indicated his intention to retire from the Board in 2016.
We have announced that Mr McLintock will be succeeded by Anne Richards, who will join Prudential from Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, where she held the position of Chief Investment Officer and was responsible for operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
She has held senior roles at JP Morgan Investment Management, Mercury Asset Management and Edinburgh Fund Managers.
Mr Johnston will retire at the end of the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Board decision making The Board has established a number of committees comprising Non-executive Directors in line with corporate governance guidelines, to ensure independent oversight and challenge and to assist the Board in operating effectively.
The responsibilities of the principal committees are key components of the Groups governance framework.
Nomination Committee Audit Committee Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Paul Manduca Ann Godbehere Howard Davies Anthony Nightingale The Nomination Committee The Audit Committee monitors The Risk Committee oversees The Remuneration Committee ensures that the Board retains the integrity of the Groups the Groups overall risk appetite determines the overall an appropriate balance of skills financial reporting, including the and risk tolerance, as well as remuneration policy for the to support the strategic effectiveness of internal control the Groups investment and Group, including the individual objectives of the Group and and risk management systems risk management frameworks.
remuneration packages of the that an effective framework for and the effectiveness of Chairman and Executive senior succession planning is internal and external auditors.
Directors, and oversees the in place.
remuneration arrangements of senior management.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 77 How we operate continued Key areas of focus Meetings Powers of the Board how the Board spent its time The Board met on 10 occasions during The Board may exercise all powers the year, which included two overseas conferred on it by the Companys Articles meetings held at the Groups operations of Association the Articles and the in the US and Hong Kong.
The Board also Companies Act 2006.
This includes the 19% held a separate strategy event during the powers of the Company to borrow money year.
Individual Directors attendance at and to mortgage or charge any of its assets 35% meetings throughout the year is set out subject to the limitations set out in the in the table below.
Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles and to give a guarantee, security During the year, the Chairman met with or indemnity in respect of a debt or other 23% the Non-executive Directors without obligation of the Company.
the Executive Directors being present on five occasions.
In the ordinary course, Board and 23% Committee papers are provided one week in advance of each meeting and, where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, Group strategy Business unit reviews their views were canvassed in advance by Business performance, financial the Chairman of that meeting.
reporting, operations projects and transactions Risk, compliance and governance Board and committee meeting attendance during 2015 Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk General Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meeting Number of meetings held 10 10 5 7 6 1 Chairman Paul Manduca 10 5 1 Executive Directors 1 Tidjane Thiam 4 4 1 2 Mike Wells 10 1 Nic Nicandrou 10 1 3 Pierre-Olivier Boue 4 4 1 4 Jackie Hunt 8 8 1 5 Penny James 3 3 n a Michael McLintock 10 1 Barry Stowe 10 1 6 Tony Wilkey 5 6 n a Non-executive Directors Philip Remnant 10 10 4 5 7 1 Howard Davies 10 10 4 5 6 1 Ann Godbehere 10 10 5 6 1 Alistair Johnston 10 10 1 7 David Law 3 3 3 3 n a Kai Nargolwala 10 7 6 1 8 Anthony Nightingale 10 4 4 7 1 Alice Schroeder 10 10 1 7 Lord Turner 3 3 2 2 n a 9 Lord Turnbull 4 4 0 1 3 3 3 3 1 Notes: 1 Tidjane Thiam stepped down as an Executive Director and Group Chief Executive on 31 May 2015.
2 Mike Wells was appointed as Group Chief Executive on 1 June 2015.
3 Pierre-Olivier Boue stepped down as an Executive Director on 31 May 2015.
4 Jackie Hunt resigned as an Executive Director on 3 November 2015.
5 Penny James was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 September 2015.
6 Tony Wilkey was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 June 2015.
7 David Law and Lord Turner were appointed as Non-executive Directors on 15 September 2015.
8 Anthony Nightingale was appointed as a member of the Nomination Committee on 14 May 2015.
9 Lord Turnbull stepped down as a Non-executive Director on 14 May 2015.
10 The Audit and Risk Committees held two meetings jointly during the year in addition to those listed above, which were attended by all members from both Committees.
78 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Board balance and effectiveness Succession planning succession planning process, undertook including due consideration of gender, The Board continues to be actively external searches for candidates and is followed as part of the Nomination engaged in succession planning for both evaluated internal candidates for both Committees ongoing activities carried executive and non-executive roles to Board and non-Board roles.
Aside from out during 2015 in respect of succession ensure that Board composition is these activities, Egon Zehnder did not planning for Executive and progressively refreshed and that the Board undertake any other significant work Non-executive Directors.
The Board carries for Prudential.
The Board does not endorse quotas, out its succession planning primarily but continues to commit to having an Diversity through the Nomination Committee, increasing representation of women Given the global reach of the Groups as described more fully on page 87.
The in senior positions in the Group and operations, the Board makes every effort Board is kept fully apprised of the review on the Board.
to ensure it is able to recruit directors process applied across all businesses from different backgrounds, with diverse which covers both executive director experience, perspectives and skills.
This and senior management succession and diversity not only contributes towards development.
The Board considers Board effectiveness but is essential for annually the outcome of the review and successfully delivering the strategy any actions arising from the review are of an international group.
The Board is implemented as part of the management committed to recruiting the best available development agenda.
The Board confirms talent and appointing the most appropriate that Egon Zehnder supported the candidate for each role.
This approach, Directors ongoing development Prudential offers each Director an induction programme on joining the Board and provides opportunities for ongoing development.
Induction Ongoing development The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that induction The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that all Directors programmes are provided for all new directors.
These are continually update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with tailored to reflect the experience of each director and their the Group.
Directors regularly receive reports on the Groups position as either Executive or Non-executive Directors.
businesses and the regulatory and industry-specific environments in which it operates.
On appointment, Non-executive Directors embark upon a wide-ranging induction programme covering, among other In 2015, the Board took time for particular focus on the Groups things, the principal bases of accounting for the Groups results, US and Asian businesses.
During visits to the US and Asia, the the role of the Board and its principal Committees, the Groups Board received updates on key products and distribution in key risks and the risk management framework, as well as the the US and in the Asian businesses, including an investors compliance environment in which the Group operates.
The Boards overseas visits have allowed the directors to meet with the local senior management teams.
The programme also includes detailed briefings on the Groups business units, its product range, the markets in which it operates Throughout the year, the Board focused on regulatory and the overall competitive environment.
developments, particularly Solvency II, and the introduction of a new regulatory responsibility framework for the industry, Both Mr Law and Lord Turner started their induction programme applicable to Senior Insurance Managers.
A separate session was in 2015, which included sessions with key management in the held updating the Board on risk and capital models.
Directors were provided with updates at each Board meeting on Executive Directors receive an induction tailored to their skills other legal and regulatory changes and developments that could and experience.
impact the industry and the Group.
Committee members received updates at Committee meetings on areas of particular relevance to the respective committees and were kept updated on ongoing developments in these areas, as well as the impact these have on the Group.
In 2015, the Audit Committee and Risk Committee held two joint sessions in which they were provided with an update on Solvency II and related disclosures.
Directors may request individual in-depth briefings from time to time, which is valuable to Non-executive Directors wishing to improve their knowledge of particular developments affecting the Group or particular parts of the business.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 79 How we operate continued Performance evaluation 2014 The table below sets out the actions taken by the Board in 2015 in response to themes arising from the 2014  evaluation.
Theme Action Outcome Board composition Prioritise operational This is an ongoing focus of the work of the Nomination experience, gender balance Committee on succession planning and is one of the key criteria and relevant geographical included when identifying and recommending individuals for representation where possible Board succession.
in making new appointments to The appointment of Penny James as Group Chief Risk Officer the Board.
Keep the balance of and Executive Director, effective 1 September 2015, maintains Executive and Non-executive gender balance at Board level.
The appointment of two further Non-executive Directors to the Board ensures the composition of the Board remains balanced between Executive and Non-executive Directors.
In addition, the appointment of David Law to the Board and Audit Committee provides detailed expertise around the audit processes of global insurance groups, and the appointment of Lord Turner to the Board and Risk Committee adds extensive high-level experience of international regulation and financial services.
Relationship with senior Consider ways of further Both the Audit and Risk Committees widened the pool of management increasing informal contact attendees at their meetings during 2015, including senior between Non-executive management from business units presenting updates where Directors and senior relevant.
management, for example, As during previous overseas meetings, the Board met various inviting additional senior senior management at Jackson and Prudential Corporation Asia managers to attend committee as part of the overseas Board visits.
These additional visits meetings where appropriate provided in-depth information and an opportunity for questions and continuing to create to be put directly to local management.
opportunities for contact with local management during overseas visits.
Selection processes Provide more detailed updates The Chairman continued to ensure that the Board was updated and information on potential as early as possible on potential candidates.
Board candidates to the whole As part of the selection process leading to the appointment of Board as early as possible.
David Law and Lord Turner, individual meetings with a number of Directors took place and the Board was kept updated on the appointment process throughout.
Board papers Continue to review and Board papers remained subject to continuous improvement streamline Board and throughout the year to provide relevant, high-quality information committee papers.
and strike the right balance between detail and overview.
The performance of the Non-executive The review confirmed that the Board 2015 The performance evaluation of the Board Directors and the Group Chief Executive continued to operate effectively during was evaluated by the Chairman in the year and no major areas requiring and its principal Committees for 2015 was conducted internally at the end of 2015. individual meetings.
Philip Remnant, the improvement were highlighted.
Progress Senior Independent Director, led the has been made on the actions identified The assessment was carried out by the Chairman and Group General Counsel Non-executive Directors in a performance in 2014 and addressed in 2015, as evaluation of the Chairman.
and Company Secretary through a questionnaire.
The findings were Executive Directors are subject to regular presented to the Board in February 2016 review and the Group Chief Executive and an action plan agreed to address areas individually appraised the performance of of focus identified by the evaluation.
each of the Executive Directors as part of the annual Group-wide performance evaluation of all staff.
80 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information The following themes were identified as Post action reviews Products and customers areas for focus in 2016: The evaluation noted that the Board should The Board intends to continue holding continue to analyse past decisions closely, in-depth focus sessions on products and Governance of subsidiary boards testing assumptions and projections made customers of the Group, including using The Board evaluation recognised that, in the past.
Board visits to the business units in the UK, following agreement with the PRA to Asia and the US as a key opportunity to appoint independent non-executive Board papers do this.
directors to certain of the Groups larger On Board processes, the feedback The Board will track its progress in subsidiaries, more formal oversight of the highlighted progress made during the year, addressing these themes at its meetings governance arrangements for their boards in particular improvements in clarity of throughout the course of 2016 and report would be required.
This is another area we will on actions taken in its next Annual Report.
for appointing the subsidiary independent continue to focus on during 2016 to ensure directors and the relationship between that the right balance is struck regarding them and the Chairman and chairs of the the level of detail provided in papers, Group Audit and Risk Committees would especially for technically complex matters.
This will continue to assist the Board in managing a growing agenda and keeping regulatory and strategic issues balanced appropriately.
Shareholder engagement As a major institutional investor, the Board calendar.
The Companys Registrar, Companys shareholders.
In 2015, as part recognises the importance of maintaining a Equiniti, operates an internet access of the investor relations programme, high level of two-way communication with facility for registered shareholders, over 440 meetings were held with shareholders.
The Company holds an providing details of their shareholdings approximately 700 individual institutional ongoing programme of regular contact at www.
co. uk investors across the UK, in continental with major shareholders, conducted by the Europe, US and Asia.
A full programme of engagement with Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Chief shareholders, potential investors and The Chairman and Senior Independent Financial Officer and the Director of analysts, in the UK and overseas, is led Director also held individual meetings with Strategy and Capital Market Relations.
each year by the Director of Strategy and major shareholders, primarily to discuss Shareholder feedback from these meetings Capital Market Relations.
In addition, a governance and strategy.
and general market views, for example conference for investors and analysts has from analyst research reports, are The Annual General Meeting is an been held on a regular basis since 2010, communicated to the Board.
opportunity for further shareholder with in-depth business presentations and engagement, for the Chairman to explain The Senior Independent Director and opportunities for attendees to meet with the Companys progress and along with other Non-executive Directors are members of the Board and senior other members of the Board, to answer any available to meet with major shareholders management through the course of the questions.
All Directors then in office on request.
Most recently, the Group held a attended the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
conference for investors in January 2016.
The Group maintains a corporate website The Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Details of the 2016 Annual General containing a wide range of relevant Officer and investor relations team also Meeting are available on information for private and institutional attend major financial services conferences www.
investors, including the Groups financial to present to, and meet with, the www.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 81
