Glossary AER Cash surrender value Discretionary participation features Actual Exchange Rates are actual historical The amount of cash available to a or DPF exchange rates for the specific accounting policyholder on the surrender of or A contractual right to receive, as a period, being the average rates over the withdrawal from a life insurance policy supplement to guaranteed benefits, period for the income statement and the or annuity contract.
additional benefits: closing rates for the balance sheet at the That are likely to be a significant portion CER balance sheet date.
of the total contractual benefits: Constant Exchange Rates Prudential plc Annual premium equivalent or APE reports its results at both actual exchange Whose amount or timing is A measure of new business activity that is rates AER to reflect actual results and contractually at the discretion of the calculated as the sum of annualised regular also constant exchange rates CER issuer: and premiums from new business plus so as to eliminate the impact from exchange That are contractually based on asset, 10 per cent of single premiums on new translation.
CER results are calculated by fund, company or other entity business written during the period.
translating prior period results using performance.
current period foreign currency exchange Asset backed security rates, ie, current period average rates for Dividend cover A security whose value and income the income statements and current period Dividend cover is calculated as operating payments are derived from and closing rate for the balance sheet.
profit after tax on an IFRS basis, divided by collateralised or backed by a specified the current period interim dividend plus pool of underlying assets.
The pool of Closed-book life insurance business the proposed second interim dividend.
assets is typically a group of small and A closed book is essentially a group of illiquid assets that are unable to be insurance policies that are no longer sold, Endowment product sold individually.
but are still featured on the books of a life An ordinary individual life insurance insurer as a premium-paying policy.
The product that provides the insured party Available for sale AFS insurance company has closed the books with various guaranteed benefits if it Securities that have been acquired neither on new sales of these products which will survives specific maturity dates or periods for short-term sale nor to be held to remain in run-off until the policies expire stated in the policy.
Upon the death of the maturity.
AFS securities are measured at and all claims are settled.
insured party within the coverage period, fair value on the statement of financial a designated beneficiary receives the face position with unrealised gains and losses Core structural borrowings value of the policy.
being booked in Other Comprehensive Borrowings which Prudential considers to Income instead of the income statement.
form part of its core capital structure and European Embedded Value or EEV exclude operational borrowings.
Financial results that are prepared on Back book of business a supplementary basis to the Groups The insurance policies sold in past periods Credit risk consolidated IFRS results and which are that are still in force and hence are still The risk of loss if another party fails prepared in accordance with a set of recorded on the insurers balance sheet.
to meet its obligations, or fails to do so Principles issued by the Chief Financial in a timely fashion.
Bonuses Officers Forum of European Insurance Bonuses refer to the non-guaranteed Currency risk Companies in May 2004 and expanded benefit added to participating life insurance The risk that asset or liability values, cash by the Additional Guidance of EEV policies and are the way in which flows, income or expenses will be affected Disclosures published in October 2005. policyholders receive their share of the by changes in exchange rates.
Also The principles are designed to capture the profits of the policies.
There are normally referred to as foreign exchange risk.
value of the new business sold in the period two types of bonuses: and of the business in force.
Deferred acquisition costs or DAC Regular bonus expected to be added Acquisition costs are expenses of an Fixed annuities every year during the term of the policy.
insurer which are incurred in connection Fixed annuity contracts written in the US It is not guaranteed that a regular bonus with the acquisition of new insurance which allow for tax-deferred accumulation will be added each year, but once it is contracts or the renewal of existing of funds, are used for asset accumulation added, it cannot be reversed, also known insurance policies.
They include in retirement planning and for providing as annual or reversionary bonus: and commissions and other variable sales income in retirement and offer flexible inducements and the direct costs of issuing pay-out options.
The contract holder pays Final bonus an additional bonus the policy, such as underwriting and other the insurer a premium, which is credited to expected to be paid when policyholders policy issue expenses.
Typically, under the contract holders account.
Periodically, take money from the policies.
If interest is credited to the contract holders IFRS, an element of acquisition costs are investment return has been low over deferred ie not expensed in the year account and administrative charges are the lifetime of the policy, a final bonus deducted, as appropriate.
incurred, and instead amortised in the may not be paid.
Final bonuses may income statement in line with the vary and are not guaranteed.
Fixed indexed annuities emergence of surpluses on the These are similar to fixed annuities in that Bulk annuity related contracts.
the contract holder pays the insurer a A bulk annuity, sometimes referred to premium, which is credited to the contract Deferred annuities as a bulk purchase annuity, is a contract Annuities or pensions due to be paid from holders account and, periodically, interest between a defined benefit pension scheme is credited to the contract holders account a future date or when the policyholder and an insurance company, whereby an reaches a specified age.
and administrative charges are deducted, insurance company insures some or all as appropriate.
An annual minimum of the liabilities of the pension scheme.
interest rate may be guaranteed, although 364 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information actual interest credited may be higher and Guaranteed minimum withdrawal International Financial Reporting is linked to an equity index over its indexed benefit GMWB US Standards IFRS option period.
A guarantee in a variable annuity that Accounting standards that all publicly listed promises that the owner may make annual groups in the European Union are required Funds under management withdrawals of a defined amount for the life to apply in preparing consolidated financial These comprise funds of the Group held of the owner or until the total guaranteed statements.
in the statement of financial position and amount is recovered, regardless of market external funds that are managed by Investment grade performance or the actual account balance.
Investments rated BBBor above for S&P, Health and protection Baa3 or above for Moodys.
Generally they Group free surplus These comprise health and personal are bonds that are judged by the rating Group free surplus at the end of the period accident insurance products, which agency as likely enough to meet payment comprises free surplus for the insurance provide morbidity or sickness benefits and obligations that banks are allowed to invest businesses, representing the excess of the include health, disability, critical illness and in them.
net worth over the required capital included accident coverage.
Health and protection in the EEV results, and IFRS net assets for Investment-linked products or products are sold both as standalone the asset management businesses excluding contracts policies and as riders that can be attached goodwill.
The free surplus generated Insurance products where the surrender to life insurance products.
Health and during the period comprises the movement value of the policy is linked to the value of protection riders are presented together in this balance excluding foreign exchange, underlying investments such as collective with ordinary individual life insurance capital, and other reserve movements.
investment schemes, internal investment products for purposes of disclosure of Specifically, it includes amounts maturing pools or other property or fluctuations in financial information.
from the in-force operations during the the value of underlying investment or indices.
period less the investment in new business, Immediate annuity Investment risk associated with the product the effect of market movements and other An annuity in which payments to the is usually borne by the policyholder.
annuitant or beneficiary start at once Insurance coverage, investment and upon establishment of the annuity plan administration services are provided for Guaranteed annuities or scheme.
Such annuities are almost which the charges are deducted from the Policies that pay out a fixed amount always purchased with a single investment fund assets.
Benefits payable will of benefit for a defined period.
depend on the price of the units prevailing at the time of surrender, death or the maturity Guaranteed investment contract In-force of the product, subject to surrender charges.
GIC US An insurance policy or contract reflected These are also referred to as unit-linked An investment contract between an on records that has not expired, matured or products or unit-linked contracts.
insurance company and an institutional otherwise been surrendered or terminated.
investor, which provides a stated rate of Liquidity coverage ratio return on deposits over a specified period Inherited estate Prudential calculates this as assets and of time.
They typically provide for partial or For life insurance proprietary companies, resources available to us that are readily total withdrawals at book value if needed surplus capital available on top of what is convertible to cash to cover corporate for certain liquidity needs of the plan.
necessary to cover policyholders obligations in a prescribed stress scenario.
An inherited We calculate this ratio over a range of time Guaranteed minimum accumulation orphan estate is effectively surplus capital horizons extending to 12 months.
benefit GMAB US on a realistic basis built over time and not A guarantee that ensures that the contract allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
Liquidity premium value of a variable annuity contract will be This comprises the premium that is at least equal to a certain minimum amount Internal rate of return IRR required to compensate for the lower after a specified number of years.
The IRR is equivalent to the discount rate liquidity of corporate bonds relative at which the present EEV value of the to swaps and the mark to market risk Guaranteed minimum death benefit post-tax cash flows expected to be earned premium that is required to compensate GMDB US over the life time of the business written for the potential volatility in corporate The basic death benefit offered under in shareholder-backed life funds is equal bond spreads and hence market values variable annuity contracts, which specifies to the total invested capital to support at the time of sale.
that if the owner dies before annuity the writing of the business.
The capital income payments begin, the beneficiary included in the calculation of the IRR Market value reduction MVR will receive a payment equal to the greater is equal to the amount required to pay A reduction applied to the payment on of the contract value or purchase payments acquisition costs and set up reserves less with-profits bonds when policyholders less withdrawals.
premiums received, plus encumbered surrender in adverse market conditions.
The impact of the time value Guaranteed minimum income Money Market Fund MMF of options and guarantees is included benefit GMIB US An MMF is an open-ended mutual fund in the calculation.
A guarantee that ensures, under certain that invests in short-term debt securities conditions, that the owner may annuitise Internal vesting such as US treasury bills and commercial the variable annuity contract based on the Internal vestings are proceeds from a paper.
The purpose of an MMF is to greater of a the actual account value or b Prudential policy which the policyholder provide investors with a safe place to a pay-out base equal to premiums credited has decided to reinvest in a Prudential invest easily accessible cash-equivalent with some interest rate, or the maximum annuity product.
assets characterised as a low-risk, anniversary value of the account prior low-return investment.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 365 Glossary continued Mortality rate Participating policies or although they are entitled to asset Rate of death, varying by such parameters participating business management fees on this business.
as age, gender and health, used in pricing Contracts of insurance where the Separate account and computing liabilities for future policyholders have a contractual right A separate account is a pool of investments policyholders of life and annuity products, to receive, at the discretion of the insurer, held by an insurance company not in which contain mortality risks.
additional benefits based on factors or separate from its general account.
such as investment performance, as a Net premiums They generally accrue to the policyholder.
supplement to any guaranteed benefits.
Life insurance premiums, net of reinsurance A separate account allows an investor to This is also referred to as with-profits ceded to third-party reinsurers.
choose an investment category according business.
to his individual risk tolerance, and desire Net worth Payback period for performance.
Net assets for EEV reporting purposes Payback period is the time in which the that reflect the regulatory basis position, Single premiums initial cash outflow of investment is sometimes with adjustments to achieve Single premium policies of insurance are expected to be recovered from the cash consistency with the IFRS treatment of those that require only a single lump sum inflows generated by the investment.
measure cash outflow by our investment of free surplus in new business sales.
The New business margin Stochastic techniques payback period equals the time taken for The value of new business on an EEV basis Stochastic techniques incorporate results this business to generate free surplus to expressed as a percentage of the present from repeated simulations using key cover this investment.
Payback periods value of new business premiums expected financial parameters which are subject are measured on an undiscounted basis.
to be received from the new business.
to random variations and are projected into the future.
Present value of new business New business profit premiums or PVNBP The profits, calculated in accordance with Subordinated debt The present value of new business European Embedded Value Principles, A fixed interest issue or debt that ranks premiums is calculated as equalling from business sold in the financial reporting below other debt in order of priority for single premiums plus the present value period under consideration.
repayment if the issuer is liquidated.
of expected premiums of new regular Holders are compensated for the added premium business, allowing for lapses and Non-participating business risk through higher rates of interest.
other assumptions made in determining A life insurance policy where the Under EU insurance regulation, the EEV new business contribution.
policyholder is not entitled to a share of the subordinated debt is not treated as a companys profits and surplus, but receives liability and counts towards the coverage Prudential Regulation Authority certain guaranteed benefits.
Also known of the required minimum margin of or PRA as non-profit in the UK.
Examples include solvency, with limitations.
The PRA is a UK regulatory body pure risk policies eg fixed annuities, term responsible for Prudential regulation and insurance, critical illness and unit-linked Surrender supervision of banks, building societies, insurance contracts.
The termination of a life insurance policy credit unions, insurers and major or annuity contract at the request of the investment firms.
OIEC Open ended investment policyholder after which the policyholder company receives the cash surrender value, if any, Regular premium product A collective investment fund structured of the contract.
A life insurance product with regular as a limited company in which investors periodic premium payments.
Surrender charge or surrender fee The fee charged to a policyholder when Rider Operational borrowings a life insurance policy or annuity contract A supplemental plan that can be attached Borrowings which arise in the normal is surrendered for its cash surrender to a basic insurance policy, with payment course of the business.
value prior to the end of the surrender of additional premium.
Participating funds Risk margin reserve RMR charge Distinct portfolios where the policyholders Takaful An RMR is included within operating profit have a contractual right to receive at the Insurance that is compliant with based on longer-term investment returns discretion of the insurer additional benefits Islamic principles.
and represents a charge for long-term based on factors such as the performance expected defaults of debt securities, of a pool of assets held within the fund, as Time value of options and guarantees determined by reference to the credit a supplement to any guaranteed benefits.
The value of financial options and quality of the portfolio.
The insurer may either have discretion guarantees comprises two parts, the as to the timing of the allocation of those intrinsic value and the time value.
The Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund benefits to participating policyholders or intrinsic value is given by a deterministic SAIF may have discretion as to the timing and valuation on best estimate assumptions.
SAIF is a ring-fenced sub-fund of the the amount of the additional benefits.
For The time value is the additional value Prudential Assurance Companys Prudential the most significant participating arising from the variability of economic long-term fund following the acquisition funds are with-profits funds for business outcomes in the future.
of the mutually owned Scottish Amicable written in the UK, Hong Kong, Malaysia Life Assurance Society in 1997.
is solely for the benefit of policyholders of SAIF.
Shareholders of Prudential plc have no interest in the profits of this fund 366 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Total shareholder return TSR TSR represents the growth in the value of a share plus the value of dividends paid, assuming that the dividends are reinvested in the Companys shares on the ex-dividend date.
Unallocated surplus Unallocated surplus is recorded wholly as a liability and represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for Prudentials with-profits funds.
The balance retained in the unallocated surplus represents cumulative income arising on the withprofits business that has not been allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
Unit-linked products or unit-linked contracts See investment-linked products or contracts above.
Universal life An insurance product where the customer pays flexible premiums, subject to specified limits, which are accumulated in an account and are credited with interest at a rate either set by the insurer or reflecting returns on a pool of matching assets.
The customer may vary the death benefit and the contract may permit the customer to withdraw the account balance, typically subject to a surrender charge.
Variable annuity VA US An annuity whose value is determined by the performance of underlying investment options that frequently includes securities.
A variable annuitys value is not guaranteed and will fluctuate, depending on the value of its underlying investments.
The holder of a variable annuity assumes the investment risk and the funds backing a variable annuity are held in the insurance companys separate account.
VAs are similar to unit-linked annuities in the UK.
Whole of life A type of life insurance policy that provides lifetime protection: premiums must usually be paid for life.
The sum assured is paid out whenever death occurs.
Commonly used for estate planning purposes.
With-profits funds See participating funds above.
Yield A measure of the income received from an investment compared to the price paid for the investment.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 367
