Further information on Directors Information on a number of regulations and processes relevant to directors and how these are addressed by Prudential is given below.
Prudentials approach Area Non-executive Directors Executive Directors Rules governing The Board, or members in a general meeting, may appoint a maximum of 20 directors as set out in the appointment Companys Articles.
and removal Their appointment and removal is also governed by other provisions in the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code, the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code HK Code as appended to the Hong Kong Listing Rules HK Listing Rules, and the Companies Act 2006.
Terms of Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial The Directors remuneration report sets out the appointment term of three years.
terms of Executive Directors service contracts on page 122.
Subject to review by the Nomination Committee and re-election by shareholders, it would be expected that they serve a second term of three years.
After six years, Non-executive Directors may be appointed for a further year, up to a maximum of three years in total, subject to rigorous review and re-election by shareholders.
The Directors remuneration report sets out the terms of the Non-executive Directors letters of appointment on page 123.
Independence of the Non-executive Directors Prudential is one of the UKs largest institutional investors and the Board does not believe that this compromises the independence of those Non-executive Directors who are on the boards of companies in which the Group has a shareholding.
The Board also believes that such shareholdings should not preclude the Company from having the most appropriate and highest calibre Non-executive Directors.
The independence of the Non-executive Directors is determined by reference to the UK Code and HK Listing Rules.
Prudential is required to affirm annually the independence of all Non-executive Directors under the HK Listing Rules and the independence of its Audit Committee members under Sarbanes-Oxley legislation.
For the purposes of the UK Code, throughout the year, all Non-executive Directors were considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement, and to have met the criteria for independence as set out in the UK Code.
For the HK Listing Rules purposes, the Company will consider Mr Law independent from 1 July 2016, the date one year after his retirement from PwC.
The Company has received confirmation of independence from each of the other Non-executive Directors as required by the HK Listing Rules.
The Board does not consider that Mr Laws previous position at PwC affects his status as an independent Director for the purposes of the UK Code or in relation to his membership of the Audit Committee, under applicable Sarbanes-Oxley legislation.
Mr Law does not retain any ongoing involvement with PwC other than his pension entitlements and his current position as CEO of L&F Indemnity, the captive insurance group that serves the  network this group of companies has no involvement in the operation of PwC.
There were no other material factors which were deemed to affect the Non-executive Directors independence.
82 Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Prudentials approach Area Non-executive Directors Executive Directors External Directors may hold directorships or other significant interests in companies outside the Group which may appointments have business relationships with the Group.
Non-executive Directors may hold positions on a Executive Directors may accept external number of external company boards or other directorships and retain any fees earned from bodies provided that they are able to demonstrate those directorships subject to prior discussion satisfactory time commitment to their role at with either the Chairman or Group Chief Prudential and that they discuss any new Executive and, where necessary, consideration by appointment with the Chairman prior to accepting.
Permission is granted This ensures that they do not compromise their provided that the appointments do not lead to any independence and that any potential conflicts of conflicts of interest.
interest or possible issues arising out of the time In line with the UK Code, we would not expect our commitments required by the new role can be Executive Directors to hold more than one identified and addressed appropriately.
Non-executive Directorship in another FTSE 100 The major commitments of the Non-executive company nor chair such a company.
Directors are detailed in their biographies on pages Details of any fees retained from such 74 and 75. appointments are included in the Directors remuneration report on page 101.
Conflicts Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with the Company.
The Companys Articles allow of interest its Directors to authorise conflicts of interest, and the Board has adopted a policy and effective procedures to manage and, where appropriate, approve conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
Under these procedures, Directors are required to notify all directorships in companies which are not part of the Group, along with other positions which could result in a conflict or could give rise to a potential conflict, before they take on their additional positions.
The Chairman and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary assess new appointments which Board members are considering, in order to identify any conflicts or potential conflicts.
Where a conflict or potential conflict is identified, the Nomination Committee, or the Board where appropriate, considers, and if thought fit, approves each such situation individually.
Authorisations of conflicts are reviewed annually prior to the publication of the Annual Report.
Election and Proposals for election and re-election are supported by the annual performance evaluation of each Director, re-election which concluded that each Director continues to make an effective contribution.
All Directors will retire from the Board at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
John Foley, Penny James, David Law, Lord Turner and Tony Wilkey will seek election for the first time.
All other Directors, except Alistair Johnston, wish to seek re-election.
Indemnities and The Companys Articles permit the Directors and Officers of the Company to be indemnified in respect of protections liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
Suitable insurance cover is in place in respect of legal action against directors and senior managers of companies within the Group.
This includes qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of the Directors of the Company and other such persons in their capacity as Directors of other companies within the Group.
These indemnities were in force during 2015 and remain so.
Independent Directors have the right to seek independent professional advice at the Groups expense and copies of such legal advice advice are circulated to other Directors where applicable and appropriate.
Share dealing and Prudential has adopted share dealing rules relating to securities transactions by Directors on terms no less inside information exacting than required by Appendix 10 to the HK Listing Rules and by the UK Model Code.
The Directors have complied with this code of conduct throughout the period.
Relevant controls are applied to the handling and dissemination of inside information which form part of the Groups internal governance framework.
Compensation The Companys policy on loss-of-office payments for Directors forms part of the Directors remuneration for loss of office policy which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
A copy of the policy is available on the Companys corporate website www.
co. uk Significant At no time during the year did any Director hold a material interest in any contract of significance with the contracts Company or any subsidiary undertaking.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 83
