Glossary of terms Arrears - the aggregate of contractual payments due on a debt Collateralised debt obligations CDOs - asset-backed securities that have not been met by the borrower.
A loan or other financial for which the underlying asset portfolios are debt obligations: asset is said to be 'in arrears' when payments have not been either bonds collateralised bond obligations or loans made.
collateralised loan obligations or both.
The credit exposure underlying synthetic CDOs derives from credit default swaps.
The Asset-backed commercial paper ABCP - a form of asset-backed CDOs issued by an individual vehicle are usually divided in security generally issued by a commercial paper conduit.
different tranches: senior tranches rated AAA, mezzanine tranches AA to BB, and equity tranches unrated.
Losses are Asset-backed securities ABS - securities that represent borne first by the equity securities, next by the junior securities, interests in specific portfolios of assets.
They are issued by a and finally by the senior securities: junior tranches offer higher structured entity following a securitisation.
The underlying coupons interest payments to compensate for their increased portfolios commonly comprise residential or commercial risk.
mortgages but can include any class of asset that yields predictable cash flows.
Payments on the securities depend Collateralised loan obligations CLOs - asset-backed securities primarily on the cash flows generated by the assets in the for which the underlying asset portfolios are loans, often underlying pool and other rights designed to assure timely leveraged loans.
payment, such as guarantees or other credit enhancements.
Collateralised debt obligations, collateralised loan obligations, Collectively assessed loan impairment provisions - impairment commercial mortgage backed securities and residential mortgage loss provisions in respect of impaired loans, such as credit cards backed securities are all types of ABS.
or personal loans, that are below individual assessment thresholds.
Such provisions are established on a portfolio basis, Asset quality AQ band - probability of default banding for all taking account of the level of arrears, security, past loss counterparties on a scale of 1 to 10. experience, credit scores and defaults based on portfolio trends.
Assets under management - assets managed by RBS on behalf Commercial mortgage backed securities CMBS - asset-backed of clients.
securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are loans secured on commercial real estate.
Back-testing - statistical techniques that assess the performance of a model, and how that model would have performed had it Commercial paper CP - unsecured obligations issued by a been applied in the past.
corporate or a bank directly or secured obligations asset-backed CP, often issued through a commercial paper conduit, to fund Basel II - the capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel working capital.
Maturities typically range from two to 270 days.
Committee on Banking Supervision in June 2006 in the form of However, the depth and reliability of some CP markets means the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and that issuers can repeatedly roll over CP issuance and effectively Capital Standards.
CP is issued in a wide range of denominations and can be either discounted or interest-bearing.
Basel III - in December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued final rules: Basel III: A global regulatory Commercial paper conduit - a structured entity that issues framework for more resilient banks and banking systems and commercial paper and uses the proceeds to purchase or fund a Basel III: International framework for liquidity risk measurement, pool of assets.
The commercial paper is secured on the assets standards and monitoring.
and is redeemed either by further commercial paper issuance, repayment of assets or liquidity drawings.
Basis point - one hundredth of a per cent i. e. 0.01 per cent.
Used when quoting movements in Commercial real estate - freehold and leasehold properties used interest rates or yields on securities.
Commercial real estate includes office buildings, industrial property, medical centres, hotels, retail Buy-to-let mortgages - mortgages to customers for the purchase stores, shopping centres, agricultural land and buildings, of residential property as a rental investment.
Capital requirements regulation CRR - refer to CRD IV.
Common Equity Tier 1 capital - the highest quality form of regulatory capital under Basel III comprising common shares Central counterparty CCP - an intermediary between a buyer issued and related share premium, retained earnings and other and a seller generally a clearing house.
reserves excluding reserves which are restricted or not immediately available, less specified regulatory adjustments.
Certificates of deposit CDs - bearer negotiable instruments acknowledging the receipt of a fixed term deposit at a specified Contractual maturity - the date in the terms of a financial interest rate.
instrument on which the last payment or receipt under the contract is due for settlement.
Cost:income ratio - operating expenses as a percentage of total income.
420 Glossary of terms Counterparty credit risk - the risk that a counterparty defaults Credit risk mitigation - reducing the credit risk of an exposure by before the maturity of a derivative or sale and repurchase application of techniques such as netting, collateral, guarantees contract.
In contrast to non-counterparty credit risk, the exposure and credit derivatives.
to counterparty credit risk varies by reference to a market factor e. g. interest rate, exchange rate, asset price.
Credit valuation adjustment CVA - the CVA is the difference between the risk-free value of a portfolio of trades and its market Coverage ratio - impairment provisions as a percentage of value, taking into account the counterpartys risk of default.
represents the market value of counterparty credit risk, or an estimate of the adjustment to fair value that a market participant Covered bonds - debt securities backed by a portfolio of would make to reflect the creditworthiness of its counterparty.
mortgages that are segregated from the issuer's other assets solely for the benefit of the holders of the covered bonds.
Currency swap - an arrangement in which two parties exchange specific principal amounts of different currencies at inception and CRD IV - the European Union has implemented the Basel III subsequently interest payments on the principal amounts.
Often, capital proposals through the CRR and the CRD, collectively one party will pay a fixed rate of interest, while the other will pay known as CRD IV.
CRD IV was implemented on 1 January 2014. a floating rate though there are also fixed-fixed and floatingThe EBAs technical standards are still to be finalised through floating currency swaps.
At the maturity of the swap, the adoption by the European Commission and implemented within principal amounts are usually re-exchanged.
Customer accounts - money deposited with RBS by Credit default swap CDS - a contract where the protection seller counterparties other than banks and classified as liabilities.
They receives premium or interest-related payments in return for include demand, savings and time deposits: securities sold under contracting to make payments to the protection buyer upon a repurchase agreements: and other short term deposits.
Deposits defined credit event in relation to a reference financial asset or received from banks are classified as deposits by banks.
Credit events usually include bankruptcy, payment default and rating downgrades.
Debit valuation adjustment DVA - an adjustment made in valuing OTC derivative liabilities to reflect the entity's own credit Credit derivative product company CDPC - a structured entity risk.
that sells credit protection under credit default swaps or certain approved forms of insurance policies.
CDPCs are similar to Debt securities - transferable instruments creating or monoline insurers.
However, unlike monoline insurers, they are acknowledging indebtedness.
They include debentures, bonds, not regulated as insurers.
certificates of deposit, notes and commercial paper.
The holder of a debt security is typically entitled to the payment of principal and Credit derivatives - contractual agreements that provide interest, together with other contractual rights under the terms of protection against a credit event on one or more reference the issue, such as the right to receive certain information.
Debt entities or financial assets.
The nature of a credit event is securities are generally issued for a fixed term and redeemable established by the protection buyer and protection seller at the by the issuer at the end of that term.
Debt securities can be inception of a transaction, and such events include bankruptcy, secured or unsecured.
insolvency or failure to meet payment obligations when due.
The buyer of the credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return for a Debt securities in issue - unsubordinated debt securities issued payment by the protection seller upon the occurrence of a credit by RBS.
They include commercial paper, certificates of deposit, event.
Credit derivatives include credit default swaps, total return bonds and medium-term notes.
swaps and credit swap options.
Credit enhancements - techniques that improve the credit Deferred tax asset - income taxes recoverable in future periods standing of financial obligations: generally those issued by a as a result of deductible temporary differences temporary structured entity in a securitisation.
External credit enhancements differences between the accounting and tax base of an asset or include financial guarantees and letters of credit from third party liability that will result in tax deductible amounts in future periods providers.
Internal enhancements include excess spread - the and the carry-forward of tax losses and unused tax credits.
difference between the interest rate received on the underlying portfolio and the coupon on the issued securities: and overDeferred tax liability - income taxes payable in future periods as a collateralisation at inception, the value of the underlying result of taxable temporary differences temporary differences portfolio is greater than the securities issued.
between the accounting and tax base of an asset or liability that will result in taxable amounts in future periods.
Credit grade - a rating that represents an assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer.
It is a point on a scale Defined benefit obligation - the present value of expected future representing the probability of default of a customer.
payments required to settle the obligations of a defined benefit plan resulting from employee service.
Credit risk - the risk of financial loss due to the failure of a customer, or counterparty, to meet its obligation to settle Defined benefit plan scheme - pension or other post-retirement outstanding amounts.
benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan.
421 Glossary of terms Defined contribution plan scheme - pension or other postExposure - a claim, contingent claim or position which carries a retirement benefit plan where the employer's obligation is limited risk of financial loss.
to its contributions to the fund.
Exposure at default EAD - an estimate of the extent to which Deposits by banks - money deposited with RBS by banks and the bank will be exposed under a specific facility, in the event of recorded as liabilities.
They include money-market deposits, the default of a counterparty.
securities sold under repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and other short term deposits.
Deposits received from FICO score - a credit score calculated using proprietary software customers are recorded as customer accounts.
developed by the Fair Isaac Corporation in the US from a consumer's credit profile.
The scores range between 300 and 850 Derivative - a contract or agreement whose value changes with and are used in credit decisions made by banks and other changes in an underlying variable such as interest rates, foreign providers of credit.
exchange rates, share prices or indices and which requires no initial investment or an initial investment that is smaller than Financial Conduct Authority FCA - the statutory body would be required for other types of contracts with a similar responsible for conduct of business regulation and supervision of response to market factors.
The principal types of derivatives are: UK authorised firms from 1 April 2013.
The FCA also has swaps, forwards, futures and options.
responsibility for the prudential regulation of firms that do not fall within the PRAs scope.
Discontinued operation - a component of RBS that either has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale.
A discontinued Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS - the UK's operation is either: a separate major line of business or statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial geographical area of operations or part of a single co-ordinated services firms.
It pays compensation if a firm is unable to meet its plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or obligations.
The FSCS funds compensation for customers by geographical area of operations: or a subsidiary acquired raising management expenses levies and compensation levies exclusively with a view to resale.
on the financial services industry.
Economic capital - an internal measure of the capital required by RBS to support the risks to which it is exposed.
First second lien - a lien is a charge such as a mortgage held by one party, over property owned by a second party, as security for Economic profit - the difference between the return on payment of some debt, obligation, or duty owed by that second shareholders funds and the cost of that capital.
The holder of a first lien takes precedence over all other usually expressed as a percentage.
encumbrances on that property i. e. second and subsequent liens.
Effective interest rate method - the effective interest method is a Forbearance - forbearance takes place when a concession is method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or made on the contractual terms of a loan in response to a financial liability or group of financial assets or liabilities and of customers financial difficulties.
allocating the interest income or interest expense over the expected life of the asset or liability.
The effective interest rate is Forward contract - a contract to buy or sell a specified amount the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows to the of a physical or financial commodity, at an agreed price, at an instrument's initial carrying amount.
Calculation of the effective agreed future date.
interest rate takes into account fees payable or receivable that are an integral part of the instrument's yield, premiums or Futures contract - a contract which provides for the future discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and delivery or acceptance of delivery of some type of financial transaction costs.
All contractual terms of a financial instrument instrument or commodity under terms established at the outset.
are considered when estimating future cash flows.
Futures differ from forward contracts in that they are standardised and traded on recognised exchanges and rarely result in actual Encumbrance - an interest in an asset held by another party.
delivery: most contracts are closed out prior to maturity by Encumbrance usually restricts the assets transferability until the acquisition of an offsetting position.
G10 - the Group of Ten comprises the eleven industrial countries Equity risk - the risk of changes in the market price of the equities Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the or equity instruments arising from positions, either long or short, Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the in equities or equity-based financial instruments.
United States that have agreed to participate in the International Monetary Funds IMFs General Arrangements to Borrow.
Eurozone - the 19 European Union countries that have adopted the euro: Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Government Sponsored Enterprises GSEs - a group of financial Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, services corporations created by the US Congress.
Their function Malta, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain.
is to improve the efficiency of capital markets and to overcome statutory and other market imperfections which otherwise prevent Expected loss EL - expected loss represents the anticipated funds from moving easily from suppliers of funds to areas of high loss on an exposure over one year.
It is determined by loan demand.
They include the Federal Home Loan Mortgage multiplying probability of default, loss given default and exposure Corporation and the Federal National Mortgage Association.
at default and can be calculated at individual, credit facility, customer or portfolio level.
422 Glossary of terms Gross yield - the interest rate earned on average interest-earning International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA master assets i. e. interest income divided by average interest-earning agreement - a standardised contract developed by ISDA for assets.
The contract grants legal rights of set-off for derivative transactions with the same counterparty.
Haircut - a downward adjustment to collateral value to reflect its nature and any currency or maturity mismatches between the Investment grade - generally represents a risk profile similar to a collateral and the exposure it secures.
rating of BBBBaa3 or better, as defined by independent rating agencies.
Hedge funds - pooled investment vehicles that are not widely available to the public: their assets are managed by professional Key management - members of the RBS Executive Committee.
asset managers who participate in the performance of the fund.
Latent loss provisions - loan impairment provisions held against Impaired loans - all loans for which an impairment provision has impairments in the performing loan portfolio that have been been established: for collectively assessed loans, impairment incurred as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet loss provisions are not allocated to individual loans and the entire date but which have not been identified at the balance sheet portfolio is included in impaired loans.
Impairment allowance - refer to Loan impairment provisions.
Level 1 - level 1 fair value measurements are derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets Impairment losses - a for impaired financial assets measured at or liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date.
amortised cost, impairment losses - the difference between carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash Level 2 - level 2 fair value measurements use inputs, other than flows discounted at the asset's original effective interest rate - are quoted prices included within level 1, that are observable for the recognised in profit or loss and the carrying amount of the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
financial asset reduced by establishing a provision allowance b for impaired available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative Level 3 - level 3 fair value measurements use one or more loss that had been recognised directly in equity is removed from unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
equity and recognised in profit or loss as an impairment loss.
Leverage ratio - a measure prescribed under Basel III.
It is the Individual liquidity guidance ILG - guidance from the PRA on a ratio of Tier 1 capital to total exposures.
Total exposures include firm's required quantity of liquidity resources and funding profile.
on-balance sheet items, off-balance sheet items and derivatives, and generally follow the accounting measure of exposure.
Individually assessed loan impairment provisions - impairment loss provisions for individually significant impaired loans Liquidity and funding risk - the risk that RBS is unable to meet its assessed on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the financial liabilities when they fall due.
financial condition of the counterparty and any guarantor and the realisable value of any collateral held.
Liquidity coverage ratio LCR - the ratio of the stock of high quality liquid assets to expected net cash outflows over the Interest rate swap - a contract under which two counterparties following 30 days.
High quality liquid assets should be agree to exchange periodic interest payments on a unencumbered, liquid in markets during a time of stress and, predetermined monetary principal, the notional amount.
Interest spread - the difference between the gross yield and the Loan:deposit ratio - the ratio of loans and advances to customers interest rate paid on average interest-bearing liabilities.
net of provision for impairment losses and excluding reverse repurchase agreements to customer deposits excluding Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP - RBSs repurchase agreements.
own assessment, as part of Basel III requirements, of its risks, how it intends to mitigate those risks and how much current and Loan impairment provisions - loan impairment provisions are future capital is necessary having considered other mitigating established to recognise incurred impairment losses on a factors.
portfolio of loans classified as loans and receivables and carried at amortised cost.
It has three components: individually assessed Internal funding of trading business - the internal funding of the loan impairment provisions, collectively assessed loan trading book comprises net banking book financial liabilities that impairment provisions and latent loss provisions.
fund financial assets in RBSs trading portfolios.
Interest payable on these financial liabilities is charged to the trading book.
Loan-to-value ratio - the amount of a secured loan as a percentage of the appraised value of the security e. g. the International Accounting Standards Board IASB - the outstanding amount of a mortgage loan as a percentage of the independent standard-setting body of the IFRS Foundation.
members are responsible for the development and publication of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and for London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR - the benchmark interest approving Interpretations of IFRS as developed by the IFRS rate at which banks can borrow funds from other banks in the Interpretations Committee.
423 Glossary of terms Loss given default LGD - an estimate of the amount that will not Net stable funding ratio NSFR - the ratio of available stable be recovered by RBS in the event of default, plus the cost of debt funding to required stable funding over a one year time horizon, collection activities and the delay in cash recovery.
Available stable funding includes items such as equity capital, preferred stock with a maturity of Market risk - the risk of loss arising from fluctuations in interest over one year and liabilities with an assessed maturity of over rates, credit spreads, foreign currency rates, equity prices, one year.
commodity prices and other risk-related factors such as market volatilities that may lead to a reduction in earnings, economic Non-performing loans - loans classified as Risk elements in value or both.
lending and potential problem loans.
They have a 100% probability of default and have been assigned an AQ10 internal Master netting agreement - an agreement between two credit grade.
counterparties that have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts through Operational risk - the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of default on, failed processes, people, systems or from external events.
or termination of, any one contract.
Option - an option is a contract that gives the holder the right but Maximum distributable amount MDA - a restriction on not the obligation to buy or sell a specified amount of an distributions which may be made by a bank which does not meet underlying physical or financial commodity, at a specific price, at the combined buffer requirements as set out in the PRA an agreed date or over an agreed period.
Options can be Supervisory Statement SS6 14 Implementing CRD IV: capital exchange-traded or traded over-the-counter.
Over-the-counter OTC derivatives - derivatives with tailored Medium term notes MTNs - debt securities usually with a terms and conditions negotiated bilaterally, in contrast to maturity of five to ten years, but the term may be less than one exchange traded derivatives that have standardised terms and year or as long as 50 years.
They can be issued on a fixed or conditions.
floating coupon basis or with an exotic coupon: with a fixed maturity date non-callable or with embedded call or put options Own credit adjustment OCA - the effect of the RBSs own credit or early repayment triggers.
MTNs are generally issued as senior standing on the fair value of financial liabilities.
Past due - a financial asset such as a loan is past due when the counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually Monoline insurers monolines - entities that specialise in due.
providing credit protection against the notional and interest cash flows due to the holders of debt instruments in the event of Pillar 1 - the part of CRD IV that sets out the process by which default.
This protection is typically in the form of derivatives such regulatory capital requirements should be calculated for credit, as credit default swaps.
Pillar 2 - Pillar 2 is intended to ensure that firms have adequate Mortgage-backed securities - asset-backed securities for which capital to support all the relevant risks in their business and is the underlying asset portfolios are loans secured on property.
divided into capital held against risks not captured or not fully See Residential mortgage backed securities and Commercial captured by the Pillar 1 regulations Pillar 2A and risks to which mortgage backed securities.
a firm may become exposed over a forward-looking planning horizon Pillar 2B.
Capital held under Pillar 2A, in addition to the Mortgage servicing rights - the rights of a mortgage servicer to Pillar 1 requirements, is the minimum level of regulatory capital a collect mortgage payments and forward them, after deducting a bank should maintain at all times to cover adequately the risks to fee, to the mortgage lender.
which it is or might be exposed, and to comply with the overall financial adequacy rules.
Pillar 2B is a capital buffer which helps Negative equity mortgages - mortgages where the value of the to ensure that a bank can continue to meet minimum property mortgaged is less than the outstanding balance on the requirements during a stressed period, and is determined by the loan.
PRA evaluating the risks to which the firm may become exposed e. g. due to changes to the economic environment during the Net interest income - the difference between interest receivable supervisory review and evaluation process.
All firms will be on financial assets classified as loans and receivables or subject to a PRA buffer assessment and the PRA will set a PRA available-for-sale and interest payable on financial liabilities buffer only if it judges that the CRD IV buffers are inadequate for carried at amortised cost.
a particular firm given its vulnerability in a stress scenario, or where the PRA has identified risk management and governance Net interest margin - net interest income as a percentage of failings, which the CRD IV buffers are not intended to address.
Pillar 3 - the part of CRD IV that sets out the information banks must disclose about their risks, the amount of capital required to absorb them, and their approach to risk management.
The aim is to strengthen market discipline.
424 Glossary of terms Position risk requirement - a capital requirement applied to a Residential mortgage backed securities RMBS - asset-backed position treated under the Market Risk Rules as part of the securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are residential calculation of the market risk capital requirement.
RBS RMBS classifications, including prime, nonconforming and sub-prime, reflect the characteristics of the Potential future exposure - is a measure of counterparty underlying mortgage portfolios.
RMBS are classified as prime risk credit risk.
It is calculated by evaluating existing trades done RMBS where the loans have low default risk and are made to against the possible market prices in future during the lifetime of borrowers with good credit records and reliable payment histories the transactions.
and there is full documentation.
Non-conforming RMBS include US Alt-A RMBS, together with RMBS in jurisdictions other than Potential problem loans PPL - loans for which an impairment the US where the underlying mortgages are not classified as event has taken place but no impairment loss is expected.
This either prime or sub-prime.
Classification of RMBS as subprime or category is used for advances which are not past due 90 days or Alt-A is based on Fair Isaac Corporation scores FICO, level of revolving credit facilities where identification as 90 days overdue documentation and loan-to-value ratios of the underlying is not feasible.
US RMBS are classified as sub-prime if the PRA Rule Book - contains provisions made by the PRA that mortgage portfolio comprises loans with FICO scores between apply to PRA authorised firms.
Within Banking and Investment 500 and 650 with full or limited documentation.
Mortgages in AltRules, the Capital Requirements firms section applies to RBS.
A RMBS portfolios have FICO scores of 640 to 720, limited documentation and an original LTV of 70% to 100%.
In other Private equity - equity investments in operating companies not jurisdictions, RMBS are classified as sub-prime if the mortgage quoted on a public exchange.
Capital for private equity portfolio comprises loans with one or more high risk investment is raised from retail or institutional investors and used characteristics such as: unreliable or poor payment histories: high to fund investment strategies such as leveraged buyouts, venture loan-to-value ratios: high debt-to-income ratio: the loan is not capital, growth capital, distressed investments and mezzanine secured on the borrower's primary residence: or a history of capital.
delinquencies or late payments on the loan.
Probability of default PD - the likelihood that a customer will fail Retail loans - loans made to individuals rather than institutions.
to make full and timely repayment of credit obligations over a one The loans may be for car purchases, home purchases, medical year time horizon.
care, home repair, holidays and other consumer uses.
Prudential Regulation Authority PRA - the statutory body Return on equity - profit attributable to ordinary shareholders responsible for the prudential supervision of banks, building divided by average shareholders equity as a percentage.
societies, insurers and a small number of significant investment Reverse repurchase agreement Reverse repo - refer to Sale firms in the UK.
The PRA is a subsidiary of the Bank of England.
Regular way purchase or sale - a purchase or sale of a financial Risk appetite - an expression of the maximum level of risk that asset under a contract whose terms require delivery of the asset RBS is prepared to accept to deliver its business objectives.
within the time frame established generally by regulation or convention in the marketplace concerned.
Risk asset ratio RAR - total regulatory capital as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
Regulatory capital - the amount of capital that RBS holds, determined in accordance with rules established by the PRA for Risk elements in lending REIL - impaired loans and accruing the consolidated Group and by local regulators for individual loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to Group companies.
Repurchase agreement Repo - refer to Sale and repurchase Risk-weighted assets RWAs - assets adjusted for their agreements.
associated risks using weightings established in accordance with the CRD IV as implemented by the PRA.
Certain assets are not Residential mortgage - a loan to purchase a residential property weighted but deducted from capital.
where the property forms collateral for the loan.
The borrower gives the lender a lien against the property and the lender can Sale and repurchase agreements - in a sale and repurchase foreclose on the property if the borrower does not repay the loan agreement one party, the seller, sells a financial asset to another per the agreed terms.
party, the buyer, at the same time the seller agrees to reacquire and the buyer to resell the asset at a later date.
From the seller's perspective such agreements are repurchase agreements repos and from the buyer's reverse repurchase agreements reverse repos.
425 Glossary of terms Securitisation - a process by which assets or cash flows are Subordinated liabilities - liabilities which, in the event of transformed into transferable securities.
The underlying assets or insolvency or liquidation of the issuer, are subordinated to the cash flows are transferred by the originator or an intermediary, claims of depositors and other creditors of the issuer.
typically an investment bank, to a structured entity which issues Super senior CDO - the most senior class of instrument issued by securities to investors.
Asset securitisations involve issuing debt a CDO vehicle.
They benefit from the subordination of all other securities asset-backed securities that are backed by the cash instruments, including AAA rated securities, issued by the CDO flows of income-generating assets ranging from credit card vehicle.
receivables to residential mortgage loans.
Supervisory slotting approach - a method of calculating Settlement balances - payables and receivables that result from regulatory capital, specifically for lending exposures in project purchases and sales of financial instruments recognised on trade finance and income producing real estate, where the PD date.
Asset settlement balances are amounts owed to RBS in estimates do not meet the minimum internal ratings based respect of sales and liability settlement balances are amounts standards.
Under this approach, the bank classifies exposures owed by RBS in respect of purchases.
from 1 to 5, where 1 is strong and 5 is default.
Specific riskSovereign exposures - exposures to governments, ministries, weights are assigned to each classification.
departments of governments and central banks.
Tier 1 capital - a component of regulatory capital, comprising Standardised approach - a method used to calculate credit risk Common Equity Tier 1 and Additional Tier 1.
Additional Tier 1 capital requirements under Pillar 1.
In this approach the risk capital includes eligible non-common equity capital securities and weights used in the capital calculation are determined by any related share premium.
Under Basel II, Tier 1 capital regulators.
For operational risk, capital requirements are comprises Core Tier 1 capital plus other Tier 1 securities in issue, determined by multiplying three years historical gross income by less certain regulatory deductions.
a percentage determined by the regulator.
The percentage ranges from 12 to 18%, depending on the type of underlying Tier 2 capital - qualifying subordinated debt and other Tier 2 business being considered.
securities in issue, eligible collective impairment allowances less certain regulatory deductions.
Standstill - is an agreement, usually for a specified period of time, not to enforce the lenders rights as a result of a customer Total loss absorbing capacity TLAC - a Financial Stability Board breaching the terms and conditions of their facilities.
This is a requirement for global systemically important banks to have a concession to the customer.
A standstill is most commonly used sufficient amount of specific types of liabilities which can be used in a complex restructuring of a companys debts, where a group to absorb losses and recapitalise a bank in resolution.
The of creditors agree to delay enforcement action to give the implementation of the TLAC requirements is being discussed company time to gather information and formulate a strategy with within local regulators.
a view to establishing a formal restructuring.
Unaudited - financial information that has not been subjected to Stress testing - a technique used to evaluate the potential effects the audit procedures undertaken by RBS's auditors to enable on an institutions financial condition of an exceptional but them to express an opinion on RBS's financial statements.
plausible event and or movement in a set of financial variables.
US Federal Agencies - are independent bodies established by Stressed value-at-risk SVaR - a VaR measure using historical the US Government for specific purposes such as the data from a one year period of stressed market conditions.
For management of natural resources, financial oversight or national the purposes of calculating regulatory SVaR, a time horizon of security.
A number of agencies, including, the Government ten trading days is assumed at a confidence level of 99%.
Refer National Mortgage Association, issue or guarantee publicly also to Value-at-risk below.
Structured credit portfolio SCP - a portfolio of certain illiquid Value-at-risk VaR - a technique that produces estimates of the assets - principally CDO super senior positions, negative basis potential loss in the market value of a portfolio over a specified trades and monoline exposures.
time period at a given confidence level.
Structured entity SE - an entity that has been designed such Wholesale funding - wholesale funding comprises Deposits by that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding banks, Debt securities in issue and Subordinated liabilities.
who controls the entity, for example when any voting rights relate Write-down - a reduction in the carrying value of an asset to to administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are record a decline in its fair value or value in use.
directed by means of contractual arrangements.
SEs are usually established for a specific, limited purpose, they do not carry out a Wrong-way risk - the risk of loss when the risk factors driving the business or trade and typically have no employees.
They take a exposure to a counterparty or customer are positively correlated variety of legal forms - trusts, partnerships and companies - and with the creditworthiness of that counterparty i. e. the size of the fulfil many different functions.
exposure increases at the same time as the risk of the counterparty or customer being unable to meet that obligation, Structured notes - securities that pay a return linked to the value increases.
or level of a specified asset or index.
Structured notes can be linked to equities, interest rates, funds, commodities and foreign currency.
