182 Other information Jargon buster RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Jargon buster Below is a simple explanation of some of the key technical terms used within this report.
Term Definition Affinity Selling insurance through a partners distribution network, usually to a group of similar customers, e. g. store card holders, alumni groups, unions and utility company customers.
Capital The money invested in the Group.
This includes the money invested by shareholders and profits retained within the Group.
Claims Frequency Average number of claims per policy over the year.
Claims Handling Expenses The administrative cost of processing a claim salary costs, costs of running claims centres, etc.
and allocated share of the costs of head office units.
Not the cost of the claim itself.
Claims Ratio Loss Ratio Percentage of Net Earned Premiums which is paid out in claims and Claims Handling Expenses.
Claims Reserve Reserve established by the Group to reflect the estimated cost of claims payments and related expenses that Provision for Losses and we estimate we will ultimately be required to pay.
Loss Adjustment Expenses Claims Severity Average cost of claims incurred over the period.
Combined Operating Ratio The sum of the Claims Ratio, Expense Ratio and Commission Ratio.
COR Measures how much we pay out in claims and expenses for each unit of net premium received.
A COR of less than 100% indicates that we are writing profitable business.
Calculated as: Net Incurred Claims Expenses Commissions % Net Earned Premiums Commission An amount paid to an intermediary such as a broker for generating business.
Commission Ratio Ratio of net commission costs to Net Earned Premiums.
Current Year Result The underwriting profit or loss earned from business for which protection has been provided in the current financial period.
Earned Premium The portion of an insurance premium for which we have already provided protection.
Economic Capital The Groups assessment of the capital we must hold to have a high confidence of meeting our obligations given our risk appetite.
Expense Ratio Percentage of Net Earned Premiums which is paid out in operating expenses e. g. salaries, premises costs, etc.
The ratio does not include claims related expenses but can include or exclude commissions.
Exposure A measurement of risk we are exposed to through the premiums we have written.
For example, in motor insurance one vehicle insured for one year is one unit of exposure.
Financial Conduct Authority The regulatory authority for the conduct of the UK financial services industry.
FCA Gross Written Premium Total premium written or processed in the period, irrespective of whether it has been paid.
GWP IBNR A reserve for accidents or incidents which we have provided cover for that have occurred but which have Incurred but Not Reported not yet been reported to us.
Large losses Single claims or events with a net cost of 500k or higher.
Net Earned Premium NEP The portion of Net Written Premiums for which we have already provided protection.
This is included as income in the period.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial statements Other Information Other information Jargon buster RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 183 Term Definition Net Incurred Claims NIC The total claims cost incurred in the period less any share to be paid by reinsurers.
It includes both claims payments and movements in claims reserves in the period, as well as claims handling expenses.
Net Written Premium NWP Net Written Premium is premium written or processed in the period, irrespective of whether it has been paid, less the amount paid out in reinsurance premiums.
Prior Year Result Profit or loss generated by settling claims incurred in a previous year at a better or worse level than the previous estimated cost.
Property and Casualty P&C Property insurance covers loss or damage through fire, theft, floods, storms and other specified risks.
Casualty Non Life Insurance or insurance primarily covers losses arising from accidents that cause injury to other people or damage to the General Insurance property of others.
Prudential Regulation The regulatory authority with responsibility for the prudential regulation and supervision Authority PRA of the UK financial services industry.
Rate The price of a unit of insurance based on a standard risk for one year.
Actual premium charged to the customer may differ from the rate due to individual risk characteristics and marketing discounts.
Reinsurance The practice whereby we transfer part or all of the risk we have accepted to another insurer the reinsurer.
Run-off A situation where an insurer is no longer underwriting new business but continues to meet its liabilities under existing contracts.
Solvency II New capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry.
Establishes a revised set of EU wide capital requirements and risk management standards.
Scrip Dividend Where shareholders choose to receive the dividend in the form of additional shares rather than cash.
The Group issues new shares to meet the scrip demand.
Tangible Net Asset Value The tangible value of the Group calculated by subtracting our total liabilities including loan capital TNAV from our total tangible assets total assets less goodwill and intangibles.
Total Shareholder Return A measure of performance based on the overall value to shareholders of their investment in the Group over a period of time.
Includes the movement in the share price and dividends paid, expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the period.
Underlying attritional Claims incurred during the period expressed as a percentage of earned premiums, including claims handling loss ratio expenses but excluding claims incurred in respect of large losses, weather events and subsidence losses.
Underlying Return on A measure of the underlying profits the Group earns, adjusted for profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, Tangible Equity reorganisation and integration costs and acquisition costs, relative to opening tangible funds attributable to ordinary shareholders.
Underwriting Result This is a measure of how well the Group has done excluding its investment performance and is calculated as: NEP Net Incurred Claims including Claims Handling Expenses Expenses Commissions Unearned Premium The portion of a premium that relates to future periods, for which protection has not yet been provided, irrespective of whether the premium has been paid or not.
Weather losses Weather events with a net cost of 500k or higher.
Yield Rate of return on an investment in percentage terms.
The dividend payable on a share expressed as a percentage of the market price.
184 Other information Notes RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes Printed at Pureprint Group, ISO 14001.
This report was printed using vegetable oil based inks by Pureprint Group a CarbonNeutral printer certified to ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS the Eco Management Audit Scheme.
Both manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO4001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain of custody certified.
Designed and produced by SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP Important disclaimer This document contains forward-looking statements with respect to certain of the Groups plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance, results, strategic initiatives and objectives.
Generally, words such as may, could, will, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, aim, outlook, believe, plan, seek, continue, potential, reasonably possible or similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances which are beyond the Groups control, including amongst other things, UK domestic, Eurozone and global economic business conditions, market-related risks such as fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates, the policies and actions of governments, central banks and regulatory authorities including changes related to capital and solvency requirements whether in the UK, Eurozone or globally, the impact of competition, inflation, deflation, the timing impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant industries, as well as the impact of tax and other legislation or regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Group and its affiliates operate.
The Groups actual future financial condition, performance and results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set forth in the Groups forward-looking statements and, as a result, these forwardlooking statements are not guarantees of future performance of the Group and undue reliance should not be placed on them.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made.
The Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, save in respect of any requirement under applicable law or regulation.
Neither the content of RSAs website nor the content of any other website accessible from hyperlinks on RSAs website is incorporated into, or forms part of, this document.
