Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83 Appendix Summary of Remuneration Policy Introduction The Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders on 9 May 2014, and was effective from this date.
No changes to the Policy are proposed this year.
The Policy covers how decisions on directors remuneration will be made at RSA, and the remuneration philosophy and strategy which underpin these decisions.
For ease of reference, the elements of the Policy referenced in Committee activity during 2015 are re-presented on the following pages 84 to 90, including the policy tables and information on directors contractual terms.
The full Policy Report is contained in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts pages 71 to 79, which is available at www.
RSAs remuneration philosophy and strategy RSAs remuneration philosophy and strategy are directly informed by the business strategy, which is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 39 of this report.
The remuneration principles the Committee follows are: Competitive remuneration packages are offered in order to attract, retain and reward the levels of high calibre talent which are essential to RSAs success in todays competitive global insurance market Each component of the total remuneration package is simple and transparent, so as to be effective and understood by executives, shareholders and regulators A significant proportion of the overall remuneration package takes the form of variable pay, giving focus to stretching short and long-term objectives which directly support the achievement of strategic priorities and are aligned to shareholders interests Executive Directors and other executives are required to hold a significant number of shares in the Company: they are encouraged to act in shareholders best interests by having a personal investment in RSA The remuneration framework is reviewed regularly to ensure that it continues to appropriately reward executives, while protecting shareholders interests and complying with principles of good risk management and reward governance.
The tables on the following pages describe how these remuneration principles are applied in practice.
84 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued RSAs Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Purpose and Strategic Link Policy for 2014 onwards Opportunity and performance conditions Base salary Reviewed annually with consideration of factors including: market positioning, internal pay relativities, levels Performance conditions do not apply, but business and individual performance may be considered when conducting the review process.
fixed remuneration of pay for other RSA employees, inflation, affordability, job scale and content, individuals experience and Although salaries are reviewed annually, there is no automatic right for any Director to receive a salary increase.
Salaries are aligned to expertise.
Only annual base salary is pensionable.
An existing Executive Directors salary may be increased Other than exceptional circumstances such as a role change, salary increases will not exceed the level of increases applied to other market competitive levels.
outside of the normal review cycle for material role changes.
This is to attract and Benchmarked referencing competitive practice within two peer groups of listed international insurers The Executive Directors salaries effective 1 April 2016 are noted on page 80. retain high calibre and FTSE listed companies of broadly comparable market capitalisation to RSA, excluding banks and executives, essential for heavy industries.
ensuring RSAs ongoing Committee can change the constituents of the benchmark peer group or the basis upon which market success.
information is obtained at its discretion to ensure that the data remains robust and relevant.
Note to table: Policy is consistent for other UK-based managers.
Benefits Directors receive a variety of benefits, some of which are delivered as taxable cash-in-lieu allowances.
Performance conditions do not apply.
fixed remuneration Benefits cover the areas of: health and well-being, leave of absence, car and business travel, sickness benefit, Benefits are valued and determined with reference to the benchmarking peer groups and other surveys reviewed by the Remuneration Employment benefits are insurances, professional subscriptions, external advice and employee discounts on certain insurance Committee.
Details of the benefits received by the Executive Directors for 2015 are provided on pages 71 to 72. provided to support the products.
Home to work travel may be covered where appropriate.
Tax changes are not compensated.
executive and form part Assistance would be available under RSAs relocation policy or global mobility policy should this be required.
of a market competitive This may include tax equalisation in the event an executive is subsequently appointed to the Board as an package.
expatriate, although the Committee would review if this was necessary long-term.
UK-based Executive Directors can participate in RSAs flexible benefits programme and acquire shares through voluntary HMRC-approved share plans Sharesave and Sharebuild.
They can also claim expenses according to RSAs business and travel policies.
Benefits are determined with reference to market practice within the same benchmark peer groups referenced above.
The Committee can also source information from bespoke benefits surveys to aid decision-making.
Committee can amend any benefit or introduce new ones to ensure the remuneration package remains market competitive or to respond to regulatory, legal or best practice changes.
Internal appointees to the Board may retain any legacy benefits they receive, at the Committees discretion, or a buy-out may be made depending on the benefit type and circumstance.
Note to table: Policy is consistent for other UK-based managers and most other UK-based employees.
Pension Non-contributory pension plan membership or a full partial cash allowance, where the Director is unable Performance conditions do not apply.
fixed remuneration to join the Companys pension plans.
The RSA defined benefit pension plan is closed to all new entrants.
No Executive Director will receive a pension benefit in excess of 30% of salary.
Pension benefit forms a Pension cash allowances are paid monthly and are subject to statutory deductions.
The Executive Directors pension benefits for 2015 are detailed on pages 71 to 72. part of a market Pension cash allowances are set referencing practice within the benchmark peer groups and specialist survey competitive package and data may also be obtained.
The Committee has regard to the market median allowance data.
enables executives to Committee can adjust the employer pension contribution or cash allowance levels to ensure these remain save for retirement.
It can also agree changes to the terms of the Directors pension plan s, as appropriate.
Annual Bonus Plan Overall bonus opportunity is set at a level to be market competitive.
Awards are calculated against stretching Normal bonus opportunity is 16% of salary at threshold, rising to 80% of salary for on-target performance and 160% of salary at maximum.
variable remuneration annual financial and non-financial targets, as well as the performance of the individual executive.
Only superior Additional bonus headroom of up to a further 40% of salary may be available, at the Committees discretion, to recognise highly Supports RSAs shortperformance will result in a bonus award which is above target.
Full disclosure will be given if an increased bonus opportunity is applied.
Targets Fifty per cent of the bonus will be awarded in cash and the remainder will be deferred into a share award for Performance is measured over one financial year, according to a range of metrics, some of which can be assessed on a scorecard basis, are directly linked to the a period of three years.
Dividends or equivalents accrue on the deferred shares, and are awarded at the end typically including: growth in earnings and profitability, underwriting performance, risk management, expense ratio and cost savings, operational plan and of the deferral period.
The deferred bonus shares are granted under the rules of the LTIP as a conditional award.
capital strength, balance sheet strength, customer and employee engagement, and objectives which are personal to the executive.
reflect RSAs priority to All measures operate independently.
Around 70% of the Annual Bonus Plan is weighted according to financial metrics.
The performance Under RSAs Clawback Policy, cash and deferred share awards arising from the Annual Bonus Plan can be create shareholder value conditions and targets which were used to inform the 2015 bonus awards are detailed on pages 72 to 73. reduced or forfeited prior to receipt under a range of circumstances and other sanctions can apply.
The policy is through sustained growth noted in detail on page 75.
The Committee reviews the policy annually and may amend or update it, as required.
Group Executives are targeted against performance of the entire Group.
Executive Directors who have a regional accountability will and profitability, based on be targeted against the performance of both the Group and their business areas.
The Executive Directors maximum bonus opportunity is set having regard to the market median bonus its risk profiles.
Deferral opportunity of its benchmark peer groups.
Targets are set with reference to the Groups operational plan.
into shares creates Committee can exercise discretion to change the bonus measures, how they are weighted, calculated and No additional performance conditions apply to the deferred bonus shares once they are granted.
It can also change the Directors bonus awards both upwards and downwards once the measures have been tested, provided this is appropriate and in shareholders interests.
The Committee can make such amendments as are necessary to respond to regulatory, legal or accounting requirements.
Shareholders will be notified if this has been carried out by disclosure in the relevant Directors Remuneration Report.
Note to table: All permanent UK-based employees are eligible to receive a bonus award, but share deferral is only operated for senior leaders at RSA.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 85 RSAs Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Purpose and Strategic Link Policy for 2014 onwards Opportunity and performance conditions Base salary Reviewed annually with consideration of factors including: market positioning, internal pay relativities, levels Performance conditions do not apply, but business and individual performance may be considered when conducting the review process.
86 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued RSAs Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors continued Purpose and Strategic Link Policy for 2014 onwards Opportunity and performance conditions Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP grants are made annually to a range of senior employees across the Group.
For Executive Directors, awards Normal threshold LTIP opportunity is 58% of salary, rising to 144% of salary for on-target performance and 230% of salary at maximum.
LTIP variable are made in the form of performance shares which vest subject to performance conditions.
The LTIP is also For recruitment purposes, or in highly exceptional circumstances, such as for retention, the Committee may agree to a conditional remuneration used as a vehicle for granting restricted shares which, for an Executive Director would only be used to satisfy performance-related award being made up to an additional 170% of salary.
This would be considered a one-off award.
Where an Supports RSAs long-term a buy-out upon appointment and shares awarded through compulsory bonus deferral.
exceptional award is made, full disclosure will be given on the rationale.
Targets reflect Performance conditions are reviewed annually.
Dividends or equivalents accrue during the performance period Conditional awards are determined based on the Directors salary as at the grant date, using the mid-market closing price of an RSA RSAs priority to create and are added to the shares that vest.
ordinary share, as determined by the Committee in accordance with the Plans rules.
shareholder value A two-year retention period will apply to the Executive Directors vested shares prohibiting their sale excluding The LTIP is intended to support the delivery of the business strategy over a three-year time horizon, and it will therefore include at least through sustained any sold to satisfy statutory deductions.
This policy will cover performance-based awards granted through the two metrics which, typically, will be directly linked to value creation through performance of the Groups share price, earnings profitability, earnings and share price LTIP and it will first be implemented for shares vesting in 2017 i. e. the 2014 grant.
The retention period only capital strength and balance-sheet strength.
The measures can be assessed on an absolute and or a relative basis.
The metrics can be growth.
applies while the Director remains in employment.
The performance conditions are not subject to re-testing.
Under RSAs Clawback Policy, unvested share awards granted from 2013 onwards can be subject to forfeiture The performance period will normally be at least three years for all measures.
By exception, the relative TSR metric will be assessed over partial or full covering a range of circumstances and other sanctions can apply.
The policy is noted in detail circa 34 months for the 2014 grant only.
The performance conditions and targets that will apply to the 2016 grant are detailed on pages 80 to 81.
The Executive Directors maximum award opportunity is set having regard to the market median grant within Shareholders will be consulted if changes to the measures are proposed by the Committee.
Committee can act within the parameters of the Plans rules as approved by shareholders and its performance conditions, covering matters such as the measures, calculation methods, performance period, eligibility rules, and general Plan mechanics.
The purpose of discretion is to enable the LTIP to be appropriately administered under both normal and exceptional circumstances, e. g. corporate or capital events affecting the Group or a significant number of employees.
In addition, the Committee can make such amendments as may be necessary to respond to legal, accounting or regulatory changes.
Awards can be reduced or otherwise amended, provided the action is fair and justifiable, for example, to guard against a windfall award or the converse generated by an accounting treatment, to put employees in a neutral position following a capital event.
Specifically, under a change of control, performance conditions are tested and awards can vest earlier than scheduled, pro-rated for time and performance, however, the Committee can determine whether a pro-ration for time is applied to other forms of award not subject to performance conditions.
Note to table: The policy applicable to the Executive Directors long-term incentives is the same for all other participants who receive performance-based awards, with exception to the two-year post-vesting retention period which only covers Executive Directors.
LTIP award opportunities vary for individuals below the Board.
Legacy incentives The Executive Directors will continue to retain any awards granted under RSAs 2006 Long-term Incentive Performance conditions for any outstanding awards are Group underlying Return on Equity and relative Total Shareholder Return as noted variable remuneration Plan including deferred share awards.
No further grants will be made under the 2006 Plan.
The Committee in the Directors Remuneration Report for 2013 and in this Report on page 77.
There is no re-testing of the performance conditions.
can exercise the same discretion as noted in the LTIP section above, as appropriate.
Required shareholding Executive Directors must acquire shares in RSA and hold them according to specified levels, expressed as a Performance conditions do not apply.
Ensures alignment with salary multiple.
With effect from 1 January 2014, the shareholding levels to be reached are: shareholders interests Executives have five years in which to build up their holding, commencing from the first date an unconditional Group Chief Executive: 300% of salary and enables the Director share award is made to them as a Director.
No shares are to be sold until the holding level is reached, except to build a stake in the Other Executive Directors: 150% of salary where required to cover statutory deductions.
The Executive Directors shareholding levels as at 31 December 2015 are noted on page 76.
The shares which count towards the holding are those held either in their own right or that of immediate family members, and any awarded by RSA which cease to be bound by any performance or service conditions.
Vested The shareholding levels were determined with reference to the practice across the benchmark peer groups.
LTIP shares form part of the holding during the two-year retention period.
For the purpose of reporting to shareholders, the holding levels will be determined using the mid-market closing price of an RSA ordinary share and executives annual gross basic salaries, both as at 31 December in the reporting year.
The Committee can exercise discretion to temporarily waive or reduce the holding requirement or allow shares to be sold in exceptional business or personal circumstances e. g. ill-health, divorce, financial hardship.
Note to table: Members of the Executive Team and selected senior leaders across the Group are also required to hold shares in RSA.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 87 Purpose and Strategic Link Policy for 2014 onwards Opportunity and performance conditions Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP grants are made annually to a range of senior employees across the Group.
88 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued RSAs Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors continued Purpose and Strategic Link Policy for 2014 onwards Opportunity and performance conditions Appointment treatment Appointment salaries are set using the same approach as for the Directors salary reviews, as noted on pages If the Director is entered into an RSA LTIP and made an award of performance shares, these will be subject to the same performance Ensures a consistent and 84 to 85 above.
The Committee can exercise discretion on the timing and level of salary reviews for newly conditions and vesting date as applies to other plan participants.
transparent approach is appointed Directors reflecting the individuals development and performance in the role.
Under normal circumstances, a new Executive Director will be eligible for incentive awards in line with the usual policy which provides taken when appointing Benefits, pension and contractual terms will be the same as those offered to current Executive Directors, for a maximum bonus of 160% of salary and LTIP award of 230% of salary.
However, in exceptional circumstances, a higher bonus executives to the Board, but the Committee may exercise judgement to flex the package to accommodate any specific terms bespoke opportunity of up to 200% of salary may be agreed and a performance-related LTIP award may be approved by the Committee in the in line with best practice.
to the individual, e. g. related to health, annual leave, pension or insurance benefits.
Directors first year of service up to the limit of 400% of salary.
No Director will be appointed on a notice period exceeding 12 months.
Restricted shares may be issued and, if so, these will not carry any financial performance conditions, only continued service with the Group or such other conditions as the Committee may agree.
Restricted shares will only be awarded to an Executive Director in the Where the Director is an internal promotion within the Group, he she may be permitted to retain any legacy case of compensation for loss upon recruitment.
benefits or terms at the Committees discretion.
Continuity of service with the Group will be maintained.
The Committee may agree to reduce the value of the compensatory award below the anticipated or actual loss value if the compensation Where the Director is an external appointment, the Committee may agree to a compensatory package reflecting is paid at an advanced date i. e. early settlement.
incentives or benefits forfeited upon resignation.
This will only be permitted on receipt of reasonable evidence of loss.
There will be no cash sign-on payments where there is no loss.
Any compensatory award using cash or restricted shares will always carry a service condition and an appropriate repayment schedule to protect shareholders interests.
Typically, the form of award that is being forfeited e. g. cash or shares will be replaced by the same form of award at RSA.
Share awards, if they are subject to performance conditions, will generally be compensated by performance share grants in the LTIP.
A fair value approach will be applied to determine the value of any compensatory share awards.
As a point of principle, restricted shares will only be used where a performance condition has been achieved or is nearing testing and there is a reasonable expectation of the vesting level.
Cash bonuses may be bought out with restricted shares in order to give the Director an early stake in RSA.
Committee can exercise discretion on how to settle any buyout and over what time period to phase any compensatory awards.
It will have regard to the performance and vesting periods of the Directors forfeited incentives when determining this.
Note to table: The policy is largely consistent with the approach taken on recruitment remuneration for senior executives across the Group.
Leaver treatment Directors who resign or are dismissed for cause are not eligible for an annual bonus if they have left or are under Where good leavers receive pro-rated bonus or LTIP awards, performance is tested in line with the normal performance timetable.
Ensures fair treatment for notice at the date of payment, and forfeit all unvested LTIP awards.
They retain any shares they have voluntarily The Committee can, however, arrange for the performance conditions to be tested early and for awards to vest sooner than the scheduled departing executives deferred in the LTIP under the 2006 Plan.
Directors who resign can retain any compulsory deferred bonus date in cases of death in service, medical severance with discretion or under a change of control.
while avoiding reward for shares awarded from 2014 onwards and any associated dividends or equivalents.
Based on the leaving circumstances and having regard of shareholders interests, the Committee can exercise discretion to reduce or lapse failure.
Good leavers, at the Committees discretion, and normally including such circumstances as planned retirement, awards or enable a proportion of awards to be received but only in highly exceptional circumstances and where appropriate.
Shareholders death, disability medical severance, transfers outside of the Group and redundancy, would be eligible for an will be informed if discretion is applied, and details will be provided wherever possible.
annual bonus for the proportion of the bonus year served.
Deferred bonus shares will normally vest in line with There are no pre-determined special provisions for Directors with regard to compensation for loss of office.
Compensation is based the normal timetable, and LTIPs vest subject to performance and time-prorating.
The Committee will make on what would be earned by way of salary and other contractual benefits including pension, over the notice period.
In the normal reasonable judgement on determining whether a Director qualifies for good leaver status by reason of course of events, reasonable professional fees may be paid in relation to a Directors employment termination.
retirement, by understanding the individuals intentions post employment termination and taking account of the No payment or compensation for loss of office made to any departing Director will be disclosed if it is less than 10,000 gross.
context of his her departure from the Group.
The Committee has the discretion to make the final bonus award in cash and therefore waive compulsory deferral.
If a loss of office were to occur giving rise to a redundancy payment under prevailing employment legislation, the payment will be calculated taking account of the Directors length of service with the Group and his annual gross basic salary as at his employment termination date.
Benefits continue until the employment termination date or the date the contractual notice period expires, whichever is the latter: they can be settled as payments.
The unexpired period of the Directors notice may either be paid or served, including on garden leave: this is regardless of which party has served notice.
Generally, in the event of termination and in all cases of termination on performance grounds, the Committees policy would be to seek and apply mitigation, and payments may be made on a phased basis.
Note to table: The policy is largely consistent with the approach taken for senior executives across the Group.
RSAs Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors Purpose and Strategic Link Policy for 2014 onwards Opportunity and performance conditions Fees Fees are reviewed annually but an annual increase may not always be applied.
Ensures competitive When assessing fee levels, account is taken of the required time commitment and the degree of expertise With exception to the Chairman, all Non-Executive Directors receive a base fee, further fees are then paid to reflect membership of more remuneration is paid to necessary to fulfil the particular role such as chairing a committee.
than one committee and for chairing a committee.
A separate fee is paid to the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman receives a fee attract high calibre for his role and this is set by the Committee.
The fees are benchmarked using the same peer groups as for the Executive Directors remuneration, non-executives and and will have regard to the market median.
Base fees including the Chairmans fee will be kept within the aggregate limit stated in the Groups Articles of Association.
recognise their time Fees are paid in cash, subject to any required statutory deductions which are taken at source.
Details of the Chairmans fee and the Non-Executive Directors fees earned for 2015 are noted on page 71. commitment on the The Company has the discretion to introduce new fees or change the Non-Executives Directors terms.
Other key terms of office The Chairman is provided with secretarial support and the use of an office.
Reflects current good Non-Executive Directors may claim expenses in line with RSAs business and travel policies: some of these Contractual terms are noted on page 90. governance.
expenses do not qualify for HMRC tax relief.
They receive no other benefits, but they can have RSA insurance products at a discount.
As the Non-Executive Directors are not employed by the Company, they are not eligible to receive a bonus award or participate in any of RSAs share plans.
The Non-Executive Directors may hold shares in RSA, but this is a personal matter and is not mandatory.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 89 Purpose and Strategic Link Policy for 2014 onwards Opportunity and performance conditions Appointment treatment Appointment salaries are set using the same approach as for the Directors salary reviews, as noted on pages If the Director is entered into an RSA LTIP and made an award of performance shares, these will be subject to the same performance Ensures a consistent and 84 to 85 above.
90 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Contractual terms Non-Executive Directors are expected to disclose any conflicts of interest prior to, and during, the course of their Executive Directors tenure.
They will not participate in making a decision if any Each of the Executive Directors is employed under a service conflict is considered to impact their independence or limit agreement, which contains a variety of contractual terms and their ability to discharge their duties to shareholders.
Their employment can be terminated by the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman receive only fees Company or the individual, by the serving of 12 months and expenses, no individual can have a loss of office payment, notice.
In the case of summary dismissal, no notice will be although payment in lieu of notice can be made.
served by the Company and no compensation will be paid in lieu of it.
Notice periods are approved by the Committee The dates when each Non-Executive Director was appointed and, at its discretion, can be reduced in the event an Executive to the Board and the expiry dates of their current terms of Director resigns and wishes to leave prior to the end of his office are shown in the table on page 82.
Details of the contractual notice period.
Non-Executive Directors fees are noted on page 81.
Appointment letters are available for inspection by As with any RSA employee, the Executive Directors may shareholders at the Companys registered office.
be suspended from their duties in the event of their misconduct or during an investigation which might result in their dismissal.
The Company has the contractual right to place the Executive Directors on garden leave for part, or all, of their notice period.
Salary, benefits and pension contributions continue during garden leave, but this time will not count towards the calculation of any annual bonus award that may subsequently be due.
Executive Directors do not have terms which provide additional rights or payments to them in the event of a change of control, reconstruction or amalgamation of the Company.
Restrictive covenants are in place to help protect RSAs interests should the individual leave the Company for any reason.
Executive Directors may hold one external non-executive position of a FTSE 100 company provided this does not give rise to any conflict of interest, with the approval of the Nomination Committee.
If there is any remuneration arising from this role, the individual can retain it.
The date when each Executive Director was appointed to the Board is shown in the table on page 82.
Contracts are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors are not employed by RSA but they are engaged on a contract for services basis.
They are issued with an appointment letter for an initial three-year term, which can be extended with the Boards agreement.
The term of office can end prior to its expiry with either the individual or the Company serving one months notice, or three months in respect of the Chairman.
No notice will be served by the Company in the event of gross misconduct.
