Glossary Total assets means total assets less current liabilities.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Leverage For the purposes of the AIFM Directive, leverage is any NAV is net asset value per share after deducting borrowings method which increases the companys exposure, including at par or market value, as stated.
the borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a percentage of the companys exposure to its net asset Ex-income NAV is the NAV excluding current year revenue.
value and is calculated on a gross and commitment method.
Borrowings at par is the nominal value of the companys Under the gross method, exposure represents the sum of the borrowings less any unamortised issue expenses.
companys positions after deduction of cash balances, without taking account of any hedging or netting arrangements.
Under Borrowings at market value is the companys estimate of the commitment method, exposure is calculated without the the fair value of its borrowings.
The current estimated fair deduction of cash balances and after certain hedging and value of the companys borrowings is based on the redemption netting positions are offset against each other.
yield of the relevant existing reference gilt plus a margin derived from the spread of BBB UK corporate bond yields The leverage limits are set by the AIFM and approved by the 15 years over UK gilt yields 15 years.
The AIFM is also required to comply with the gearing for the secured bonds is the 6% UK Treasury Stock 2028 and parameters set by the board in relation to borrowings.
the reference gilt for the perpetual debenture stocks is the longest-dated UK Treasury stock listed in the Financial Times.
The companys maximum limits and actual leverage levels are shown below: Discount is the difference between the market price of a share and the NAV, expressed as a percentage of the NAV.
Gross Commitment Leverage exposure method method Gross gearing is the geared position if all the borrowings were Maximum limit 200% 200% invested in equities: borrowings expressed as a percentage of Actual at 31 October 2015 5% 15% shareholders funds.
Gearing is the true geared position of the company: borrowings less cash and equivalents expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Industry Classification Benchmark ICB is a product of FTSE International Limited FTSE and all intellectual property rights in and to ICB vest in FTSE.
SIT has been licensed by FTSE to use ICB.
FTSE is a trade mark of London Stock Exchange and the Financial Times Limited and is used by FTSE under licence.
FTSE and its licensors do not accept any liability to any person for any loss or damage arising out of any error or omission in ICB.
Report & Accounts 2015 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 13
