Investor Information In addition to these products, you can buy SIT shares directly How to Invest on the stockmarket through a stockbroker or a share dealing The companys wholly-owned subsidiary, SIT Savings Ltd, platform.
Your bank, lawyer, accountant or other professional provides a number of low-cost, flexible investment products adviser may also be able to help with this.
SITs registrar, which enable investors to acquire SIT shares easily.
Computershare Investor Services PLC, provides a share dealing service which can be accessed on its website, STOCKPLAN www.
SITs investment trust savings scheme is one of the most cost-effective available.
There is no initial plan charge, other Update on Tax-Efficient Investing than stamp duty and dealing spread, and no annual charge.
ISAs It costs just 12.50 to sell some or all of your holding.
STOCKPLAN allows you to invest regularly minimum The overall annual ISA investment limit is currently 15,240. investment 25 per month and or with a lump sum minimum Up to the full 15,240 can be invested in a stocks and investment 250.
There is no maximum investment limit and shares ISA with one provider.
Alternatively, up to the full you can stop and restart investing at any time.
15,240 can be put into a cash ISA, or into both a stocks and shares ISA and a cash ISA, splitting the 15,240 between the two as you wish.
STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start The annual ISA investment limit for the 2016 17 tax year SITs investing for children plan is based on the STOCKPLAN is 15,240. scheme.
It benefits from the same low charges and flexibility If an ISA holder dies on, or after, 3 December 2014, the and can be opened in one of two ways: either as a designated surviving spouse or civil partner can now inherit their ISA plan or, more formally, as a bare trust.
STOCKPLAN: A Flying tax benefits provided they were married to, or in a civil Start enables family and friends to invest on behalf of a child partnership with, and living with their spouse civil partner to help build savings for the future.
at the time of their death.
The surviving spouse civil partner is eligible for an allowance equal to the value of the ISA on The SIT ISA the date of the holders death.
This Additional Permitted This is one of the lowest-charging investment trust company Subscription APS allowance is in addition to the surviving stocks and shares ISAs on offer.
There is no initial plan charge, spouse civil partners annual ISA allowance.
other than stamp duty and dealing spread, nor are there closure or selling charges.
The annual management fee of Contact Telephone Numbers 0.6% of the value of the investment is currently capped at 30 Full contact details for SITs scheme administrators and SITs VAT regardless of how much your SIT ISA investment grows registrar can be found in the Useful Addresses section on or how many years ISA allowances you have invested with SIT.
The SIT ISA Transfer STOCKPLAN and ISA investors wishing to: SIT can accept the transfer of existing stocks and shares ISAs from other qualifying managers into The SIT ISA at any time give a change of address without losing the ISAs tax status.
SIT can also accept the instruct a sale transfer of cash ISAs into The SIT ISA.
This would turn the request a valuation cash ISA being transferred into a stocks and shares ISA.
make an investment using their debit card SIT makes no charge for transfers in.
However, the current change the amount of their monthly investment ISA manager may charge for administering the transfer out.
obtain help with accessing their STOCKPLAN and ISA information online The SIT SIPP make general queries about their account or scheme This allows investment into SIT through a low-cost, flexible, self-invested personal pension.
The wide choice can contact the scheme administrator, Halifax Share Dealing of investments available, including SIT, enables you to tailor Limited HSDL, on: 0345 850 0181 or 0113 267 1063. the investment combination in the SIPP to suit your particular needs and objectives whether you are just starting to SIT SIPP investors with questions about the administration contribute to your pension or are approaching retirement.
of their SIPP, or any other pension-related enquiry, can contact You can open a SIT SIPP even if you are already an active the SIPP administrator, AJ Bell Management Limited, on: member of an employers pension scheme or are contributing 0345 722 5525 or 0113 270 1154. to other pension plans.
You can also set up a SIT SIPP for a child or a non-earning spouse or partner.
Shareholders who hold share certificates can contact the registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, on: 0370 703 0195.
Report & Accounts 2015 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 45 Investor Information continued Please note, you will need your Share Dealing Personal Dividends Reference Number PRN to access this service.
If you do not The following dividends have been paid or proposed during 2015: have this, please contact SITs scheme administrator, HSDL, Record Payment on 0345 850 0181 or 0113 267 1063.
Dividends Amount XD date date date SIPP investors SIPP investors can set up monthly payments, buy and 31 December 4 January 4 February Final 2015 7.50p 2015 2016 2016 sell shares and access their account online, by visiting: www.
co. uk online 31 December 4 January 4 February Special 2015 3.50p 2015 2016 2016 Shareholders who hold share certificates 18 June 19 June 20 July Investors who hold share certificates can check their Interim 2015 5.00p 2015 2015 2015 holdings by registering on SITs registrars website, 2 January 5 January 5 February www.
co. uk or through the link in the Final 2014 7.20p 2015 2015 2015 investor relations section on SITs website, www.
co. uk SIT STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes Please note that to access this facility, investors will need The STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes provide automatic to quote the shareholder reference number shown on their reinvestment of dividends.
However, they also allow for share certificate.
dividends to be taken as income, if required.
STOCKPLAN and ISA holders should contact the scheme administrator, By registering for the Investor Centre facility on HSDL, on 0345 850 0181 or 0113 267 1063 if they would Computershares website, investors can also view details like to change their dividend arrangements.
of all their holdings for which Computershare is registrar, as well as access additional facilities and documentation.
Shareholders who hold share certificates Conversely, for shareholders who hold share certificates Please see www.
co. uk for further information.
investors whose names are on SITs share register and who are not in SITs schemes, dividends are automatically paid as Electronic Communications income.
However, it is easy to arrange to have these dividends Shareholders who hold share certificates reinvested by joining SITs Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Investors who hold share certificates i. e. who are not in Details are available from Computershare Investor Services, the STOCKPLAN, ISA or SIPP schemes, nor in a brokers SITs registrar, on 0370 703 0195, or from the investor relations nominee, may choose to receive SITs interim and annual section on SITs website, www.
co. uk reports and other shareholder communications electronically instead of in paper form.
Monitoring Your Investment SITs share price, together with performance information and To register, simply visit the link in the investor relations section product details, can be found on SITs website, www.
co. uk and provide email details.
Investors will then be advised by email when an electronic A number of financial websites, such as the FT, communication is available to be accessed.
ft. com and the London Stock Exchange, www.
com carry share price Shareholders Meetings information.
In addition, the share price is published daily Shareholders who hold share certificates in most quality newspapers.
Investors who hold share certificates are entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and other general meetings.
Notices of SIT publishes a daily NAV and a monthly factsheet on meetings and proxy cards are sent to their registered addresses.
An interim report is issued in June of each year and the annual report is distributed to all investors in late STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, ISA, and SIPP December.
STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and ISA investors receive twice yearly statements of their investors who invest in SIT holdings and SITs investor newsletter is issued twice yearly.
STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, ISA, and SIPP investors who invest in SIT are entitled to attend the AGM Accessing Your Account Online and other general meetings and vote by completing and returning the form of direction enclosed with this report.
ISA, STOCKPLAN and STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start designated scheme investors The AGM will be held at the Royal College of Physicians The above scheme investors may view their accounts of Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, Edinburgh EH2 1JQ, online by registering with .
can be accessed through the links in the various product sections on SITs website, www.
co. uk online 46 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 Investor Information continued Electronic Voting Company Secretary Shareholders who hold share certificates Steven Hay Shareholders who hold share certificates are able to submit proxy votes electronically for the AGM.
Please follow the Investor Relations and Compliance Manager instructions on your proxy card.
Alan Jamieson Personal Taxation Income Tax Marketing Manager SIT Savings Ltd Currently, all UK dividends are paid to shareholders net of a tax Sherry-Ann Sweeting credit of 10%.
Non-tax payers cannot reclaim the tax credit.
Non-ISA shareholders liable to higher rates of tax will be assessed for any additional tax through their annual tax return.
Capital Gains Tax CGT When investors sell all or part of their holdings, they may be liable to CGT.
Currently, the first 11,100 per annum of such gains from all sources is exempt.
For investors who acquired shares prior to 31 March 1982, the cost for CGT purposes may be based on the price on that date of 41.472p.
Investors who are in any doubt as to their liability for CGT should seek professional advice.
ISA investments remain exempt from CGT.
Please remember that we are unable to offer individual investment or tax advice.
If you require such advice, you should consult your professional adviser.
STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and The SIT ISA are provided by SIT Savings Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, 25 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HS.
Risk Warning Past performance may not be repeated and is not a guide to future performance.
The value of shares and the income from them can go down as well as up as a result of market and currency fluctuations.
You may not get back the amount you invest.
The Scottish Investment Trust PLC has a long-term policy of borrowing money to invest in equities in the expectation that this will improve returns but should stockmarkets fall, such borrowings would magnify losses on these investments.
SIT can buy back and cancel its own shares.
All other things being equal, this would have the effect of increasing gearing.
Investment in SIT is intended as a long-term investment.
Tax rates and reliefs can change in the future and the value of any tax advantages will depend on personal circumstances.
Report & Accounts 2015 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 47
