Shareholder Information Glossary of Terms Total Assets Leverage Total assets less current liabilities, before deduction of all For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers borrowings.
AIFM Directive, leverage is any method which increases the Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the Net Asset Value use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a ratio between the Net Asset Value NAV is the value of total assets less liabilities Companys exposure and its net asset value and can be including borrowings.
The NAV per share is calculated by calculated on a gross and a commitment method.
Under the dividing this amount by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys positions after the deduction of sterling cash balances, without Net Asset Value at Fair taking into account any hedging and netting arrangements.
Under Borrowings are valued at an estimate of their market worth.
the commitment method, exposure is calculated without the deduction of sterling cash balances and after certain hedging and Net Asset Value at Book netting positions are offset against each other.
Borrowings are valued at adjusted net issue proceeds.
Active Share Discount Premium Active share, a measure of how actively a portfolio is managed, is As stockmarkets and share prices vary, an investment trusts the percentage of the portfolio that differs from its comparative share price is rarely the same as its NAV.
When the share price is index.
It is calculated by deducting from 100 the percentage of lower than the NAV per share it is said to be trading at a discount.
the portfolio that overlaps with the comparative index.
An active The size of the discount is calculated by subtracting the share share of 100 indicates no overlap with the index and an active price from the NAV per share and is usually expressed as a share of zero indicates a portfolio that tracks the index.
percentage of the NAV per share.
If the share price is higher than the NAV per share, this situation is called a premium.
Total Return The total return is the return to shareholders after reinvesting the net dividend on the date that the share price goes xd.
Ongoing Charges Ratio The total expenses excluding borrowing costs incurred by the Company as a percentage of the average net asset value with debt at fair value.
Gearing At its simplest, gearing is borrowing.
Just like any other public company, an investment trust can borrow money to invest in additional investments for its portfolio.
The effect of the borrowing on the shareholders assets is called gearing.
If the Companys assets grow, the shareholders assets grow proportionately more because the debt remains the same.
But if the value of the Companys assets falls, the situation is reversed.
Gearing can therefore enhance performance in rising markets but can adversely impact performance in falling markets.
Gearing represents borrowings at par less cash and cash equivalents expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Potential gearing is the Companys borrowings expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Equity gearing is the Companys borrowings adjusted for cash and bonds expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 63 Directors Managers, Secretaries Registrar and Registered Office Chairman: Computershare Investor Services PLC JPHS Scott FCII FCSI DL Baillie Gifford & Co Limited The Pavilions Calton Square Bridgwater Road Dr MM Gray OBE DL 1 Greenside Row Bristol Professor JA Kay CBE FBA FRSE Edinburgh BS99 6ZZ FC McBain ACA EH1 3AN Tel: 0870 707 1300 WG McQueen CA FCIBS Tel: 0131 275 2000 Dr P Subacchi www.
com Company Broker Independent Auditor Depositary Cenkos Securities plc KPMG LLP BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited 6.7.
8 Tokenhouse Yard Saltire Court BNY Mellon Centre London 20 Castle Terrace 160 Queen Victoria Street EC2R 7AS Edinburgh London EH1 2EG EC4V 4LA www.
