A7 NORTH BRIDGE CA L L T L I H O E N C C A L N T A O R O A L D Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The Balmoral Hotel, 1 Princes Street, Edinburgh, EH2 2EQ on Tuesday, TRAM 23 June 2015 at 4.30pm.
STOP OMNI CENTRE If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the JOHN LEWIS meeting, please call us on 0800 027 0133.
ST. JAMES Baillie Gifford may record your call.
BUS CENTRE STATION THISTLE TRAM HOTEL STOP BALMORAL HOTEL By Rail: Edinburgh Waverley adjacent to The Balmoral Hotel By Bus: EDINBURGH Lothian Buses local services include: WAVERLEY 1, 3, 4, 15, 19, 22, 25, 29, 30, 31, 33, 34, 37, 41 STATION Notice is hereby given that an Annual General Meeting of Scottish 11.
That: Mortgage Investment Trust PLC the Company will be held at a the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised The Balmoral Hotel, 1 Princes Street, Edinburgh, EH2 2EQ on pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Tuesday, 23 June 2015 at 4.30pm for the purposes of Act to allot shares in the Company, or to grant rights to considering and, if thought fit, passing the following Resolutions, subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the of which Resolutions 1 to 11 and 13 will be proposed as ordinary Company, up to a maximum nominal amount of Resolutions and Resolutions 12 and 14 will be proposed as 21,015,408.05: and special resolutions: b the authority given by this Resolution: 1.
To receive and adopt the Companys Annual Report and i shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 March under section 551 of the Act: and 2015, together with the Reports of the Directors and the Independent Auditors report thereon.
ii unless renewed, revoked or varied in accordance with the Act, shall expire on 30 September 2016, or, if 2.
To approve the Directors Annual Report on Remuneration for earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General the financial year ended 31 March 2015.
Meeting of the Company to be held in 2016, save that 3.
To declare a final dividend of 1.55 pence per Ordinary Share.
the Company may, before such expiry, make any offer 4.
To re-elect Mr JPHS Scott as a Director of the Company.
or enter into an agreement which would or might require the allotment of shares in the Company, or the 5.
To re-elect Professor JA Kay as a Director of the Company.
grant of rights to subscribe for or to convert any 6.
To re-elect Ms FC McBain as a Director of the Company.
security into shares in the Company, after such expiry.
To re-elect Mr WG McQueen as a Director of the Company.
That: subject to the passing of Resolution 11 the Allotment Authority, the Directors be given power pursuant to sections 8.
To re-elect Dr P Subacchi as a Director of the Company.
570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot 9.
To re-appoint KPMG LLP as Independent Auditor of the equity securities within the meaning of section 560 1 of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual Act for cash pursuant to the Allotment Authority, and to sell General Meeting at which the financial statements are laid treasury shares wholly for cash, as if section 561 1 of the Act before the Company.
did not apply to such allotment or sale, provided that such 10.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of power: the Independent Auditor of the Company.
a shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities or the sale of treasury shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 9,456,933.60: b shall be in substitution for all pre-existing powers under section 570 of the Act: and c shall expire at the same time as the Allotment Authority, save that the Company may before expiry of the power conferred on the Directors by this Resolution make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry.
56 Annual Report 2015 P QUEEN STREET O YORK PLACE O ST ANDREW SQUARE ST ANDREW SQUARE GEORGE STREET L R E T A A8 PRINCES STREET W G L E I T LEITH WALK H S T R NSIDE ROW E E R E E T ST ANDREW SQUARE Shareholder Information 13.
That the Directors be authorised for the purposes of Notes LR15.4.
11 of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority to 1.
As a member you are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to allot ordinary shares and to sell treasury shares as defined in exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at section 724 of the Companies Act 2006 for cash at a price the AGM.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but below the net asset value per share of those shares without must attend the AGM to represent you.
You may appoint first offering those shares pro rata to existing Shareholders.
more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, but without appoint a proxy using the procedure set out in these notes prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the and the notes to the proxy form.
You may not use any date hereof, the Company be generally and unconditionally electronic address provided either in this notice or any related authorised, in accordance with section 701 of the Companies documents including the financial statements and proxy form Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the to communicate with the Company for any purpose other meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of its ordinary shares, than those expressly stated.
either for retention as treasury shares for future reissue, resale, transfer or for cancellation, provided that: 2.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy, together with any power of attorney or other authority a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby under which it is signed or a certified copy thereof, must be authorised to be purchased is 189,012,580, or, if less, the received by post or during normal business hours only by hand number representing approximately 14.99% of the issued at the Registrars of the Company at Computershare Investor share capital of the Company on the date on which this Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Resolution is passed: Bristol, BS99 6ZY or www.
com no later b the minimum price excluding expenses which may be than 2 days excluding non-working days before the time of the paid for each ordinary share shall be the nominal value of meeting or any adjourned meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may paid for any ordinary share purchased pursuant to this do so by using the procedures described in the CREST authority shall not be more than the higher of: Manual and or by logging on to the website i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the www.
CREST personal members or London Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST five business days immediately preceding the date of members who have appointed a voting service provider s, purchase: and should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on ii the higher price of the last independent trade of an their behalf.
ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for such a share on the London Stock Exchange: and 4.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated Company in general meeting, the authority hereby in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds conferred shall expire on 30 September 2016, or, if earlier, specifications, and must contain the information required for at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The Company to be held in 2016, save that the Company may, message, regardless of whether it constitutes the prior to the expiry of such authority, enter into a contract appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under such given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be authority which will or might be completed or executed valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and registrar ID 3RA50 no later than 2 days excluding nonmay make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any working days before the time of the meeting or any such contract or contracts.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Companys registrar is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After By order of the Board this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed Baillie Gifford & Co Limited through CREST should be communicated to the appointee Company Secretary through other means.
22 May 2015 Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 57 Shareholder Information 5.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 11.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the sponsors, or voting service providers should note that appointment of proxies in Notes 1 and 2 above does not Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in those special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in 12.
The members of the Company may require the Company to relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the publish, on its website, without payment a statement which responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if is also passed to the auditor setting out any matter relating to the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or the audit of the Companys accounts, including the auditors sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service report and the conduct of the audit.
The Company will be provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting required to do so once it has received such requests from service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary either members representing at least 5% of the total voting to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the rights of the Company or at least 100 members who have a CREST service by any particular time.
In this connection, relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Company on CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST which there has been paid up an average sum per member of sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, at least 100.
Such requests must be made in writing and to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical must state your full name and address and be sent to the limitations of the CREST system and timings.
Company at Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh, 6.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction EH1 3AN.
in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the 13.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 7.
The return of a completed proxy form or other instrument of 2006, is available from the Companys page of the Managers proxy will not prevent you attending the AGM and voting in website at www.
Members have the right to ask questions at the meeting in 8.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Investment accordance with Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006.
Trust Share Plan, Childrens Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford 15.
As at 8 May 2015 being the last practicable date prior to the Investment Trust ISA who wish to vote and or attend the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital meeting must complete and return the enclosed reply-paid consisted of 1,260,924,485 ordinary shares, carrying one vote Form of Direction.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities 8 May 2015 were 1,260,924,485 votes.
Regulations 2001 and Section 311 of the Companies Act 16.
Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights of the 2006 the Company specifies that to be entitled to attend and Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman of vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of the meeting as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and the determination by the Company of the votes they may his proxy complies with their respective disclosure obligations cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Members of the Company no later than 48 hours excluding 17.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
non-working days prior to the commencement of the AGM or any adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
