Governance Report Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they have The Directors have delegated responsibility to the Managers for elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with the maintenance and integrity of the Companys pages on the applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Managers website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may must not approve the financial statements unless they are differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that within the Directors and Managers section, confirms that, to the period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are best of their knowledge: required to: the financial statements, which have been prepared in select suitable accounting policies and then apply them accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting consistently: Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, give make judgements and accounting estimates that are a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position reasonable and prudent: and net return of the Company: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole, followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the explained in the financial statements: and information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development continue in business.
and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting and uncertainties that it faces.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure By order of the Board that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration John Scott Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also 11 May 2015 responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
