Shareholder Information Scottish Mortgage is an investment trust.
Investment Analysis of Shareholders at 31 March trusts offer investors the following: 2015 2014 participation in a diversified portfolio of shares: Number of 2015 Number of 2014 shares held % shares held % constant supervision by experienced professional managers: and Institutions 321,602,038 25.8 341,671,430 27.9 Intermediaries 693,300,828 55.7 658,784,395 53.7 the Company is free from capital gains tax on capital profits realised within its portfolio although investors are still liable for Individuals 83,730,607 6.7 87,099,125 7.1 capital gains tax on profits when selling their investment.
Baillie Gifford Share Plans ISA 144,987,868 11.6 134,499,665 10.9 These accounts have been approved by the Directors of Scottish Marketmakers 2,053,144 0.2 4,644,870 0.4 Mortgage Investment Trust PLC.
1,245,674,485 100.0 1,226,699,485 100.0 Cost-effective Ways to Buy and Hold Shares in Scottish Mortgage SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST SCOTTISH MORTGAGE WAS ORIGINALLY LAUNCHED TO PROVIDE LOANS TO RUBBER GROWERS IN MALAYSIA IN THE EARLY 20TH CENTURY.
Time just makes it tastier.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust believes in investment not speculation.
We painstakingly identify those companies that we believe will deliver long-term growth and then we stick with them through thick and thin, providing our investment case remains valid.
In fact we like to think of ourselves as owners not renters, which is why we dont get side-tracked by short-term, share price movements.
We give ourselves time to add value by being patient investors in an impatient world.
But dont just take our word for it, over the last five years Scottish Mortgage has delivered a total return of 150.7% compared to 64.6% for the index.
And Scottish Mortgage is low-cost with an ongoing charges gure of just 0.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust is managed by Baillie Gifford and is available through our Share Plan and ISA.
Please remember that changing stock market conditions and currency exchange rates will affect the value of your investment in the fund and any income from it.
You may not get back the amount invested.
Open an ISA to receive a 10 Amazon gift card.
For a free-thinking investment approach call 0800 917 2112 or visit www.
com Baillie Gifford long-term investment partners For a limited period and new eligible ISA clients only.
Terms and Conditions and minimum investment amounts apply.
Source: Morningstar, share price, total return as at 31.12.14.
Your call may be recorded for training or monitoring purposes.
Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited BGSM is the manager of the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan and the Investment Trust ISA.
BGSM is an af liate of Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, which is the manager and secretary of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC.
Your personal data is held and used by BGSM in accordance with data protection legislation.
We may use your information to send you information about Baillie Gifford products, funds or special offers and to contact you for business research purposes.
We will only disclose your information to other companies within the Baillie Gifford group and to agents appointed by us for these purposes.
You can withdraw your consent to receiving further marketing communications from us and to being contacted for business research purposes at any time.
You also have the right to review and amend your data at any time.
Press advertisement for Scottish Mortgage The Share Plan and ISA brochure available at www.
com Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited offers a number of The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA plans that enable you to buy and hold shares of Scottish Tax-efficient investment Mortgage cost-efficiently.
Purchases and sales are normally No set-up charge subject to a dealing price spread and Government stamp duty of 0.5% is payable on purchases.
Flat rate annual management charge currently of 32.50 VAT Lump sum investment from 2,000 currently up to a The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan maximum of 15,240 each year No initial charge Save monthly from 100 No annual wrapper charge A withdrawal charge of just 22 Normally cheaper than dealing through a stockbroker ISA Transfers Invest a lump sum from 250 or monthly from just 30 Transfer existing ISAs from other plan managers into the No maximum investment limits Baillie Gifford ISA Stop and start saving at any time with no charge Consolidate your plans into a managed global investment Twice weekly dealing usually Tuesday and Friday Minimum transfer value 2,000 A withdrawal charge of just 22 60 Annual Report 2015 Shareholder Information Scottish Mortgage has borrowed money to make further The Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan investments sometimes known as gearing.
The risk is that An excellent way for parents, grandparents or other adults to when this money is repaid by the Company, the value of the invest for a child investments may not be enough to cover the borrowing and No initial charge interest costs, and the Company will make a loss.
If the No annual wrapper charge Companys investments fall in value, any borrowings will increase the amount of this loss.
The option of a designated account or a bare trust in favour of the child Scottish Mortgage can buy back its own shares.
The risks from borrowing, referred to above, are increased when a Flexible investment options: lump sum from 100 or monthly Company buys back its shares.
saving from just 25 Market values for securities which have become difficult to A withdrawal charge of just 22 trade may not be readily available and there can be no Online Management Service assurance that any value assigned to such securities will accurately reflect the price the Company might receive upon You can also open and manage your Share Plan Childrens Savings Plan and or ISA online, through our secure Online their sale.
Management Service OMS which can be accessed through the Scottish Mortgage can make use of derivatives which may Baillie Gifford website at www.
As well as impact on its performance.
being able to view the details of your plan online, the service also Scottish Mortgage charges 75% of the investment allows you to: management fee and 75% of borrowing costs to capital which Obtain current valuations: reduces the capital value.
Also, where income is low, the remaining expenses may be greater than the total income Make lump sum investments, except where there is more than one holder: received, meaning Scottish Mortgage may not pay a dividend and the capital value would be further reduced.
Sell part or all of your holdings, except where there is more You should note that tax rates and reliefs may change at any than one holder: time and their value depends on your circumstances.
Switch between investment trusts, except where there is The favourable tax treatment of ISAs may change.
more than one holder: and Details of other risks that apply to investment in the savings Update certain personal details e. g. address and telephone vehicles shown on page 60 are contained in the product number.
Please note that a bare trust cannot be opened via OMS.
A bare trust application form must be completed.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is not authorised or regulated by the Financial Certain restrictions apply for accounts where there is more than Conduct Authority.
Further details of the risks associated with investing in the Further information Company, including how charges are applied, can be found at If you would like more information on any of the plans described www.
com, or by calling Baillie Gifford on above, please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team 0800 917 2112. see contact details on page 62.
The information and opinions expressed within this Annual Report and Financial Statements are subject to change without notice.
Risks This information has been issued and approved by Baillie Gifford Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
& Co Limited, the Managers and Secretaries, and does not in any Scottish Mortgage is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The value of its shares and any income from them can fall as Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited BGSM is the well as rise and investors may not get back the amount manager of The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan, The invested.
Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan and The Baillie Gifford Scottish Mortgage invests in overseas securities.
Changes in Investment Trust ISA.
BGSM is wholly owned by Baillie Gifford & the rates of exchange may also cause the value of your Co. BGSM and Baillie Gifford & Co are both authorised and investment and any income it may pay to go down or up.
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Baillie Gifford only Scottish Mortgage invests in emerging markets where provides information about its products and does not provide difficulties in dealing, settlement and custody could arise, investment advice.
resulting in a negative impact on the value of your investment.
The staff of Baillie Gifford and the Directors of Scottish Mortgage may hold shares in Scottish Mortgage and may buy or sell shares from time to time.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 61
