Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 201 GLOSSARY Adviser or Financial Adviser Deferred Income DIR An individual who is authorised by the FCA to provide Deferred income which arises from the requirement in IFRS that financial advice.
initial charges on long-term financial instruments should only be recognised over the lifetime of the business.
The initial amount of the balance is equal to the charge taken.
Administration Platform, also Bluedoor A new client-centric administration system, being developed in conjunction with our third party outsourced administration Earnings Per Share provider, IFDS.
Non-GAAP earnings per share measures, both basic and diluted, are calculated based on IFRS profit after tax.
Capita A provider of business process outsourcing and integrated European Embedded Value EEV professional support service solutions, which is our third party A value determined in accordance with the EEV Principles outsourced provider, responsible for the administration of our issued in May 2004 by the Chief Financial Officers Forum, as Dublin-based life insurance company, SJPI.
supplemented by the Additional Guidance on EEV Disclosures issued in October 2005 together the EEV Principles.
The EEV recognises the long-term nature of the emergence of Cash Result shareholder cash returns by reflecting the net present value of A post-tax measure of emergence during the year of cash available expected future cash flows.
The measure reflects underlying cashflows consistent with the IFRS results, but without adjustment for intangibles including DAC, DIR, PVIF and deferred tax.
The Field Management Team result also reflects any reserving constraint imposed on an The team of managers within St. Jamess Place with day to day insurance company in the Group by its local statutory solvency responsibility for support and supervision of the Partnership.
Finally, no allowance is made for the cost of share options.
The cash result should not be confused with the IFRS cash flow Financial Conduct Authority FCA statement which is prepared in accordance with IAS 7.
One of the two bodies along with the PRA which replaced the Financial Services Authority from 1 April 2013.
The FCA is a Chief Operating Decision Maker company limited by guarantee and is independent of the Bank of The Executive Committee of the Board which is responsible for England.
It is responsible for the conduct of business regulation allocating resources and assessing the performance of the of all firms including those firms subject to prudential operating segments.
regulation by the PRA and the prudential regulation of all firms not regulated by the PRA.
The FCA has three statutory objectives: securing an appropriate degree of protection for Client Numbers consumers, protecting and enhancing the integrity of the UK The number of individuals who have received advice from a financial system, and promoting effective competition in the St. Jamess Place Partner and own a St. Jamess Place wrapper.
Client Advocacy Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS The Company requests feedback from clients each year through The FSCS is the UKs statutory compensation scheme for a survey distributed with the annual Wealth Account.
Advocacy customers of authorised financial services firms.
This means that is measured by the response to the question Would you the FSCS can pay compensation if a firm is unable, or is likely to recommend SJP services to others?.
The potential responses be unable, to pay claims against it.
The FSCS is an independent distinguish between Yes, and have done so already, Yes, but body, set up under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 have yet to do so and No.
FSMA, and funded by a levy on authorised financial services firms.
The scheme covers deposits, insurance policies, insurance Client Retention brokering, investments, mortgages and mortgage arrangement.
Client retention is assessed by calculating the proportion of clients at 1 January in the year who remain as a client throughout the year and are still a client on 31 December of Funds under Management FUM the same year.
Represents all assets actively managed or administered by or on behalf of the Group, including all life insurance and unit trust assets, but not assets managed by third parties where we have Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC only introduced or advised on the business.
Assets managed by An intangible asset required to be established through the Rowan Dartington will count as funds under management when application of IFRS to our long-term business.
The value of the the acquisition is complete.
asset is equal to the amount of all costs which accrue in line with new business volumes.
The asset is amortised over the expected lifetime of the business.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 202 GLOSSARY CONTINUED Gross Inflows Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA Total new funds under management accepted in the period.
New The PRA is a part of the Bank of England and is responsible for funds accepted by Rowan Dartington will also count for Gross the prudential regulation of deposit taking institutions, insurers Inflows when the acquisition is complete.
The PRA has two statutory objectives: to promote the safety and soundness of these firms and, specifically for insurers, to contribute to the securing of an International Financial Data Services IFDS appropriate degree of protection for policyholders.
A provider of investor and policyholder, administration and technology services.
IFDS is our third party outsourced provider, responsible for the administration of our UK life Purchased Value of In-Force PVIF insurance company, SJPUK, our unit trust manager, SJPUTG, An intangible asset established on takeover or acquisition, and our investment administration company, SJPIA.
reflecting the present value of the expected emergence of profits from a portfolio of long-term business.
The asset is amortised in line with the emergence of profits.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Registered Individuals RI These are accounting regulations designed to ensure comparable An individual who is registered by the FCA, particularly an preparation and disclosure of statements of financial position, individual who is registered to provide financial advice.
See also and are the standards that all publicly listed companies in the Adviser and St. Jamess Place Partner.
European Union are required to use.
Rowan Dartington Investment Management Approach IMA A wealth management business providing investment The IMA is how St. Jamess Place manages clients investments.
management, advisory stockbroking and wealth planning It is managed by the St. Jamess Place Investment Committee, services.
During 2015 St. Jamess Place announced the intention which in turn is advised by respected independent investment to acquire Rowan Dartington to enhance the offering to clients research consultancies, led by Stamford Associates.
In early 2016 change of control has been granted Investment Committee is responsible for identifying by the FCA and completion will follow shortly.
fund managers for our funds, selecting from fund management firms all around world.
They are also responsible for monitoring the performance of our fund managers, and, if circumstances Solvency II should change and it becomes necessary, then they are New insurance regulations designed to harmonise EU insurance responsible for changing the fund manager as well.
regulation which became effective from 1 January 2016.
The key concerns of the regulation are to ensure robust risk management in insurance companies and to use that understanding of risk Net Inflows to help determine the right amount of capital for European Gross inflows less the amount of funds under management insurance companies to hold to ensure their ongoing viability in withdrawn by clients during the same period.
The net inflows is all but the most severe stressed scenarios.
the growth in funds under management not attributable to investment performance.
St. Jamess Place Foundation The independent grant making charity established at the same Policyholder and Shareholder Tax time as the Company in 1992.
More information about the The UK tax regime facilitates the collection of tax from life Foundation can be found on page 56 or on the website insurance policyholders by making an equivalent charge within www.
the corporate tax of the company.
This part of the overall tax charge, which is attributable to policyholders, is called policyholder tax.
The rest is shareholder tax.
St. Jamess Place Partner A member of the St. Jamess Place Partnership.
Specifically, the individual or business that is registered as an Appointed Profit Before Shareholder Tax Representative of St. Jamess Place on the FCA website.
A profit measure which reflects the IFRS result adjusted for St. Jamess Place Partner businesses vary in size and structure.
policyholder tax, but before deduction of shareholder tax.
Many are sole traders but there are also a growing number of Within the financial statements the full title of this measure is businesses employing many advisers.
Profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 203 St. Jamess Place Partnership The collective name for all of our advisers, who are Appointed Representatives of St. Jamess Place.
State Street State Street is a global financial services holding company offering custodian services, investment management services, and investment research and trading services.
State Street is responsible for the custody of the majority of the St. Jamess Place assets, and also provides other investment management services.
Underlying Cash Result Timing variances in cash emergence, particularly due to tax and insurance reserve impacts, will impact the regular development of the cash result.
The underlying cash result is adjusted for these items, and therefore provides the most useful measure which the Board reviews in conjunction with Group solvency when determining any proposed dividend to shareholders.
The underlying cash result should not be confused with the IFRS cash flow statement which is prepared in accordance with IAS 7.
An EPS measure is also calculated on this basis.
Underlying Profit A profit measure, based upon Profit before shareholder tax, but adjusted to remove the impact of movements in DAC, DIR and PVIF balances and associated tax balances.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 204 ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 FSC LOGO TO GO HERE ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ST. JAMESS PLACE HOUSE 1 TETBURY ROAD CIRENCESTER GLOUCESTERSHIRE GL7 1FP T: 0800 01 38 137 www.
