Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 119 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES St. Jamess Place plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
Statement of Compliance The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable when reporting under IFRS.
As at 31 December 2015, the following new and amended standards, which are relevant to the Group but have not been applied in the financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IAS 1 Amendment Disclosure Initiative IAS 16 and IAS 38 Amendments Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Amendments Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Amendments Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012 2014 Cycle The adoption of the above standards is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups results reported within the financial statements other than requiring additional disclosure or alternative presentation, however the impact of these standards will continue to be assessed.
The Group financial statements also comply with the revised Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers in December 2005 as amended in December 2006, to the extent that it is consistent with IFRS standards.
Basis of Preparation As discussed in the Directors Report, the going concern basis has been adopted in preparing these financial statements.
The financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling, rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds.
They are prepared on a historical cost basis, except for assets classified as investment property, available-for-sale financial assets and assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year, or in the year of the revision and future years, if the revision affects both current and future years.
Judgements made by management in the application of IFRSs that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in Note2.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and the accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these consolidated financial statements.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
