Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 191 III.
ASSUMPTIONS a Economic Assumptions The principal economic assumptions used within the cash flows at 31 December are set out below: Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Risk free rate 2.1% 1.9% Inflation rate 2.7% 2.9% Risk discount rate net of tax 5.2% 5.0% Future investment returns: Gilts 2.1% 1.9% Equities 5.1% 4.9% Unit linked funds Capital growth 1.3% 1.5% Dividend income 3.1% 2.7% Total 4.4% 4.2% Expense inflation 3.2% 3.7% The risk free rate is set by reference to the yield on ten year gilts.
Other investment returns are set by reference to the risk free rate.
The inflation rate is derived from the implicit inflation in the valuation of ten year index-linked gilts.
This rate is increased to reflect higher increases in earnings related expenses.
b Experience Assumptions The principal experience assumptions have been set on a best estimate basis.
The persistency assumptions are derived from the Groups own experience and reflect our best estimate of experience over the long term.
Where sufficient data does not exist, external industry experience may be used.
As a result of the review completed in 2015, our approach to modelling future lapse rates on pensions business has been developed to allow for the duration of the policy, in addition to age of the client, as a further risk factor affecting future experience.
We have also updated our assumptions to allow for retention of pension business beyond age 75 following changes announced in the March 2014 budget regarding the removal of the requirement to purchase an annuity by this age.
We will continue to monitor any change in policyholder behaviour arising from the pension freedom changes also announced in the March 2014 budget and the development of future experience.
To aid investors who wish to make their own judgement about these changes, we have included a pensions persistency sensitivity separately in our analysis on page 194.
The expense assumptions include allowance for both third party administration costs and corporate overhead costs incurred in respect of covered business.
The corporate costs have been apportioned so that the total maintenance cost represents the anticipated ongoing expenses, including systems development costs, which are expected to arise in future years in meeting the policy servicing requirements of the in-force business.
As a result of good progress with the investment programme at our key outsource provider to enhance our back office systems, and the commencement of the migration business to the new administration system, we have now reflected the benefit from these changes in the ongoing expense assumptions via a change in operating assumption.
This is applied as a change in operating assumptions to the total EEV at the end of the year and does not therefore feed into the reported new business contribution.
Mortality and morbidity assumptions have been set by reference to the Groups own experience, published industry data and the rates set by the Groups reassurers.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
