160 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS CONTINUED 28.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND ALLOCATION It is the Groups policy to maintain a strong capital base in order to: Protect clients interests: Meet regulatory requirements: Protect creditors interests: and Create shareholder value through support for business development.
Within the Group, each subsidiary manages its own capital in the context of a Group capital plan.
Any capital in excess of planned requirements is returned to the Groups parent, St. Jamess Place plc, normally by way of dividends.
The Group capital position is monitored by the Finance Executive Committee on behalf of the St. Jamess Place plc Board.
The Groups policy is for each subsidiary to hold the higher of: The capital required by any relevant supervisory body uplifted by a specified margin to absorb changes: or The capital required based on the Companys internal assessment.
For our insurance companies, we hold capital based on our own internal assessment, albeit recognising the regulatory requirement.
For other regulated companies we generally hold capital based on the regulatory requirement uplifted by a specified margin.
The following entities are subject to regulatory supervision and have to maintain a minimum level of regulatory capital: Entity Regulatory Body and Jurisdiction St. Jamess Place UK plc PRA & FCA: Long-term insurance business St. Jamess Place International plc Central Bank of Ireland: Life insurance business St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Limited FCA: UCITS Management Company St. Jamess Place Investment Administration Limited FCA: Investment Firm St. Jamess Place Wealth Management PCIS Limited FCA: Securities and Futures Firm St. Jamess Place Wealth Management plc FCA: Personal Investment Firm BFS Financial Services Limited FCA: Personal Investment Firm LP Financial Management Limited FCA: Personal Investment Firm PFPTime Limited FCA: Personal Investment Firm St. Jamess Place Hong Kong Limited formerly The Henley Securities and Futures Commission Hong Kong : Group Limited A Member of The Hong Kong Confederation of Insurance Brokers St. Jamess Place Singapore Private Limited formerly Henley Monetary Authority Singapore: A Member of the Association of Group Pte Limited Financial Advisers St. Jamess Place Trust Company Jersey Limited Jersey Financial Services Commission In addition, the St. Jamess Place Group is regulated as an Insurance Group, subject to the Insurance Groups Directive IGD, and with the PRA as the lead regulator.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 161 As an insurance group, St. Jamess Place is subject to the new Solvency II regulations, which were implemented on 1 January 2016.
More information about the impact of the implementation of Solvency II is included in the Financial Review on page 35.
The overall capital position for the Group at 1 January 2016, assessed in the standard formula basis, is presented in the following table: 1 January 2016 Group Million IFRS total assets 59,277.6 Less Solvency II valuation adjustments and unit linked liabilities 58,555.2 Solvency II net assets 722.4 Management Solvency Buffer MSB 202.3 Excess of free assets over MSB 520.1 Solvency II VIF 2,306.6 Risk margin 624.0 Standard formula SCR A 1,595.8 Sub-total 86.8 Solvency II Free Assets B 809.2 Solvency II ratio A B A 151% An overall internal capital assessment is required for insurance groups.
This is known as an ORSA Own Risk and Solvency Assessment and is described in more detail in the section on Risk and Risk Management on page 41.
The capital requirement and the associated solvency of the Group are assessed and monitored by the Finance Executive Committee, a Committee of the St. Jamess Place plc Board.
The regulatory requirements for the remaining companies within the Group are assessed and monitored by the relevant subsidiary boards.
Although there has been a significant change in the approach to assessing required capital during the year as a result of Solvency II, there has been no material change in the level of capital required, or in the Groups management of capital.
All regulated entities exceeded the minimum solvency requirements at the reporting date and during the year.
Capital Composition The principal forms of capital are included in the following balances on the consolidated statement of financial position: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Million Million Share capital 78.7 77.9 Share premium 158.3 147.4 Treasury shares reserve 18.5 10.5 Miscellaneous reserves 2.3 2.3 Retained earnings 874.6 793.1 Shareholders equity 1,095.4 1,010.2 Non-controlling interests 0.3 0.1 Total equity 1,095.1 1,010.1 The above assets do not all qualify as regulatory capital.
The required minimum regulatory capital and analysis of the assets that qualify as regulatory capital are outlined in Section 6 of the Financial Review on page 35, which demonstrates that the Group has met its internal capital objectives.
The Group and its individually regulated operations have complied with all externally and internally imposed capital requirements throughout the year.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
