Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 119 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES St. Jamess Place plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
Statement of Compliance The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable when reporting under IFRS.
As at 31 December 2015, the following new and amended standards, which are relevant to the Group but have not been applied in the financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IAS 1 Amendment Disclosure Initiative IAS 16 and IAS 38 Amendments Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Amendments Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Amendments Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012 2014 Cycle The adoption of the above standards is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups results reported within the financial statements other than requiring additional disclosure or alternative presentation, however the impact of these standards will continue to be assessed.
The Group financial statements also comply with the revised Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers in December 2005 as amended in December 2006, to the extent that it is consistent with IFRS standards.
Basis of Preparation As discussed in the Directors Report, the going concern basis has been adopted in preparing these financial statements.
The financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling, rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds.
They are prepared on a historical cost basis, except for assets classified as investment property, available-for-sale financial assets and assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year, or in the year of the revision and future years, if the revision affects both current and future years.
Judgements made by management in the application of IFRSs that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in Note2.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and the accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these consolidated financial statements.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 120 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS CONTINUED 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Summary of Significant Accounting Policies a Basis of Consolidation The consolidated financial information incorporates the assets, liabilities and the results of the Company and of its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are those entities in which the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity including unit trusts in which the Group holds more than 30% of the units.
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control and are accounted for at fair value through the profit or loss.
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations and expenses all acquisition costs as they are incurred.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with policies adopted by the Group.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The treatment of transactions with non-controlling interests depends on whether, as a result of the transaction, the Group alters control of the subsidiary.
Changes in the parents ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions: any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent entity.
Where the Group loses control of the subsidiary, at the date when control is lost the amount of any non-controlling interest in that former subsidiary is derecognised and any investment retained in the former subsidiary is remeasured to its fair value: the gain or loss that is recognised in profit or loss on the partial disposal of the subsidiary includes the gain or loss on the remeasurement of the retained interest.
Intragroup balances, and any income and expenses or unrealised gains and losses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
b Product Classification The Groups products are classified for accounting purposes as either insurance contracts or investment contracts.
i Insurance Contracts Insurance contracts are contracts that transfer significant insurance risk.
The Groups product range includes a variety of term assurance and whole of life protection contracts involving significant insurance risk transfer.
ii Investment Contracts Contracts that do not transfer significant insurance risk are treated as investment contracts.
The majority of the business written by the Group is unit linked investment business and is classified as investment contracts.
c Long Term Business i Insurance Premium Revenue For unit linked insurance contracts, premiums are recognised as revenue when the liabilities arising from them are recognised.
All other premiums are accounted for when due for payment.
Investment contract premiums are not included in the statement of comprehensive income but are reported as deposits to investment contract liabilities in the balance sheet.
ii Revenue from Investment Contracts Fees charged for services related to the management of investment contracts are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Initial fees, including dealing margins from unit trusts, which exceed the level of recurring fees and relate to the future provision of services, are deferred.
These are amortised over the anticipated period in which services will be provided.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 121 iii Policy Claims and Benefits For insurance contracts, death claims are accounted for on notification of death.
Critical illness claims are accounted for when admitted.
All other claims and surrenders are accounted for when payment is due.
For investment contracts, benefits paid are not included in the statement of comprehensive income but are instead deducted from investment contract liabilities.
The movement in investment contract benefits within the statement of comprehensive income principally represents the investment return credited to policyholders.
Explicit advice charges are payable to St. Jamess Place distribution company by most clients who wish to receive advice with their investment in a St. Jamess Place retail investment product.
St. Jamess Place facilitates the payment of these charges for the client, by arranging withdrawals from the clients policy, which are then recognised as income to St. Jamess Place distribution company.
A proportion of the charge is then paid to the St. Jamess Place adviser Partner who provides the advice see g i Expenses.
iv Acquisition Costs For insurance contracts, acquisition costs comprise direct costs such as initial commission and the indirect costs of obtaining and processing new business.
Acquisition costs which are incurred during a financial year, net of any impairment losses, are deferred and then amortised on a straight line basis over the period during which the costs are expected to be recoverable and in accordance with the incidence of future related margins.
For investment contracts, only directly attributable acquisition costs, which vary with and are related to securing new contracts and renewing existing contracts, are deferred, and only to the extent that they are recoverable out of future revenue.
These deferred acquisition costs, which represent the contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services, net of any impairment losses, are amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected lifetime of the Groups investment contracts.
All other costs are recognised as expenses when incurred.
Note, following the implementation of the Retail Distribution Review RDR on 31 December 2012, the initial advice costs are no longer an acquisition cost linked to the contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services and so they are no longer deferred.
The period over which costs are expected to be recoverable are as follows: Insurance contracts: 6 years Investment contracts: 1214 years v Insurance Contract Liabilities Insurance contract liability provisions are determined following an annual actuarial investigation of the long-term fund in accordance with regulatory requirements.
The provisions are calculated on the basis of current information and using the gross premium valuation method.
The Groups accounting policies for insurance contracts meet the minimum specified requirements for liability adequacy testing under IFRS 4, as they consider current estimates of all contractual cash flows, and of related cash flow such as claims handling costs.
Insurance contract liabilities can never be definitive as to their timing nor the amount of claims and are therefore subject to subsequent reassessment on a regular basis.
vi Investment Contract Liabilities All of the Groups investment contracts are unit linked.
Unit linked liabilities are measured at fair value by reference to the value of the underlying net asset value of the Groups unitised investment funds, determined on a bid value, at the reporting date.
An allowance for deductions due to or from the Company in respect of policyholder tax on capital gains and losses in the life assurance funds is also reflected in the measurement of unit linked liabilities.
Investment contract liabilities are recognised when units are first allocated to the policyholder: they are derecognised when units allocated to the policyholder have been cancelled.
The decision by the Group to designate its unit linked liabilities as fair value through the profit and loss statement reflects the fact that the underlying investment portfolio is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis.
vii Insurance and Investment Contract Receivables and Payables Insurance and investment contract receivables and payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost, using the effective interest method, less impairment losses.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 122 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS CONTINUED 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued d Reinsurance Reinsurance premiums are accounted for when due for payment, and reinsurance recoveries, in respect of insurance contract liabilities, are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers in respect of claims and amounts payable in respect of future reinsurance premiums are reported as part of insurance and investment contract receivables and payables, respectively.
e Fee and Commission Income Fee and commission income comprises: i advice charges paid by clients who wish to receive advice with their investment in a St. Jamess Place or third party retail investment product: ii commission, due in respect of products sold on behalf of third parties: and iii fees charged for services related to the management of investment contracts.
Advice charges and commission are recognised in full on acceptance and inception of the associated policy by the relevant product provider.
Where the product provider retains the right to clawback of commission on an indemnity basis, turnover on sale of these products is recognised net of a provision for the estimated clawback.
Investment contract management fees are generally recognised as revenue as the services are provided see also accounting policy Note c ii.
f Investment Return Investment return comprises investment income and investment gains and losses.
Investment income includes dividends, interest and rental income from investment properties under operating leases.
Dividends are accrued on an ex-dividend basis, and rental income is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Interest, which is generated on assets classified as fair value through profit or loss, is accounted for using the effective interest method.
g Expenses i Partner Remuneration Partner remuneration comprises initial commission and initial advice fees IAF paid for initial advice, at policy outset and within an initial period, renewal commission and renewal advice fees payable on regular contributions and fund fee commission or ongoing advice fee OAF based on funds under management.
Initial and renewal commission and advice fees are recognised in line with the associated premium income, but initial commission on insurance and investment contracts may be deferred as set out in accounting policy c iv.
Fund fee commission and ongoing advice fee are recognised on an accruals basis.
Commission and advice fees in respect of some insurance and investment business may be paid in advance on renewal premiums and accelerated by up to five years.
The unearned element of this accelerated remuneration is recognised as an asset within other receivables.
Should the contributions reduce or stop within the initial period, any unearned amount is recovered.
ii Operating Lease Payments Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership is retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as an integral part of the total lease expense and are spread over the life of the lease.
h Income Taxes Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax payable by the Group in respect of policyholders and shareholders.
Income tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
i Current Tax Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 123 ii Deferred Tax Deferred tax is provided using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
iii Policyholder and Shareholder Tax The total income tax charge is a separate adjustment within the statement of comprehensive income based on the movement in current and deferred income taxes in respect of income, gains and expenses.
The total charge reflects tax incurred on behalf of policyholders as well as shareholders, and so it is useful to be able to identify these separately.
Shareholder tax is estimated by making an assessment of the effective rate of tax that is applicable to the shareholders, with the balance being treated as tax in respect of policyholders.
i Dividends Paid Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid, and, for the final dividend, are disclosed but unpaid when approved by the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
j Intangible Assets i Deferred Acquisition Costs See accounting policy c iv.
ii Acquired Value of In-force Business The acquired value of in-force business in respect of insurance business represents the present value of profits that are expected to emerge from insurance business acquired on business combinations.
It is calculated at the time of acquisition using best estimate actuarial assumptions for interest, mortality, persistency and expenses, net of any impairment losses, and it is amortised on a straight line basis as profits emerge over the anticipated lives of the related contracts in the portfolio.
An intangible asset is also recognised in respect of acquired investment management contracts representing the fair value of contractual rights acquired under those contracts.
The acquired value of in-force business is expressed as a gross figure in the balance sheet with the associated tax included within deferred tax liabilities.
It is assessed for impairment at each reporting date and any movement is charged to the statement of comprehensive income.
iii Computer Software Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any recognised impairment loss.
The carrying value is reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Computer software is recognised as an intangible asset during development with amortisation commencing when the software is operational.
Amortisation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income to administration expenses on a straight-line basis over four years, being the estimated useful life of the intangible asset.
k Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Where the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired entity is greater than the cost of acquisition, the excess is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 124 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS CONTINUED 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and is reviewed at least annually for impairment or when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over this value.
If an impairment is identified, the carrying value of the goodwill is written down immediately through the statement of comprehensive income and is not subsequently reversed.
At the date of disposal of a subsidiary, the carrying value of attributable goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal except where it has been written off directly to reserves in the past.
l Investment Property Investment properties, which are all held within the unit linked funds, are properties which are held to earn rental income and or for capital appreciation.
They are stated at fair value.
An external, independent valuer, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of property being valued, values the portfolio every month.
The fair values are based on open market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair value is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income within investment income.
Rental return from investment property is accounted for as described in accounting policy f. m Investments The Groups investments are initially and subsequently recognised at fair value through profit or loss, with all gains and losses recognised within investment income in the statement of comprehensive income.
The fair values of quoted financial investments, which represent the vast majority of the Groups investments, are based on the value within the bid-ask spread that is most representative of fair value.
If the market for a financial investment is not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques such as recent arms length transactions, reference to similar listed investments, discounted cash flow models or option pricing models.
The decision by the Group to designate its investments at fair value through the profit and loss reflects the fact that the investment portfolio is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis.
The Group recognises purchases and sales of investments on trade date.
The costs associated with investment transactions are included within administration expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.
n Derivative Financial Instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments within some unit linked funds, with each contract initially and subsequently recognised at fair value, based on observable market prices.
All changes in value are recognised within investment income in the statement of comprehensive income.
o Other Receivables Other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost less impairment losses, except for renewal income which is held at fair value.
The value of any impairment recognised is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
See accounting policy Note p for information relating to the treatment of impaired amounts.
p Impairment i Non-Financial Assets Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over this value.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 125 ii Financial Assets Formal reviews to assess the recoverability of financial assets are carried out at each reporting date.
The recoverability of such assets is measured and the asset is deemed impaired if the projected future margins are less than the carrying value of the asset.
If there is any indication of irrecoverability or impairment, the assets recoverable amount is estimated based on the present value of its estimated future cash flows.
In relation to debt instruments, impairment losses are reversed through the statement of comprehensive income if there is a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
Such losses are reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation where applicable, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
q Cash & Cash Equivalents Cash & cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments, and bank overdrafts to the extent that they are an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Cash & cash equivalents held within unit linked and unit trust funds are classified at fair value through the profit and loss.
All other cash & cash equivalents are classified as loans and receivables.
r Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events such that it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Provisions are measured as the discounted expected future cash flows taking account of the risks and uncertainties associated with the specific liability where appropriate.
s Borrowings Borrowings are measured initially at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs, and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
The difference between the proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income over the borrowing period on an effective interest rate basis.
Borrowings are recognised on drawdown and derecognised on repayment.
t Other Payables Other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
u Net Asset Value Attributable to Unit Holders The Group consolidates unit trusts in which it holds more than 30% of the units and exercises control.
The third party interests in these unit trusts are measured at fair value, since the underlying investment portfolios are managed on a fair value basis, and they are presented in the balance sheet as net asset value attributable to unit holders.
Income attributable to the third party interests is accounted for within investment income, offset by a corresponding change in investment contract benefits.
v Employee Benefits i Pension Obligations The Group operates a defined contribution personal pension plan for its employees.
Contributions to this plan are recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive income as incurred.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
ii Share-Based Payments The Group operates a number of share-based payment plans.
The fair value of equity instruments granted is recognised as an expense spread over the vesting period of the instrument which accords with the period for which related services are provided, with a corresponding increase in equity in the case of equity settled plans.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the awards at the grant date, measured using standard option pricing models.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
