Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 189 NOTES TO THE EUROPEAN EMBEDDED VALUE BASIS I.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The supplementary information on pages 186 to 196 shows the Groups results as measured on a EEV basis.
This includes results for the life, pension and investment business, and also the unit trust business.
The valuation is undertaken on a basis determined in accordance with the EEV Principles issued in May 2004 by the Chief Financial Officers Forum CFO Forum, a group of chief financial officers from 19 major European insurers as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on EEV Disclosures issued in October 2005 together the EEV Principles with the exception of new business.
Consistent with prior reporting periods, the value of incremental premiums to existing business is treated as new business in the year of increment, rather than at the outset of the policy.
This approach better reflects the way the Group manages its business.
In recognition of the late finalisation of the Solvency II requirements, the CFO Forum issued additional guidance in October 2015 noting their view that the Embedded Value does not require an allowance for Solvency II and its associated consequences.
The EEV basis has therefore been prepared assuming the future continuation of the regulatory solvency requirements as they applied at 31 December 2015.
The treatment of all other transactions and balances is unchanged from the primary financial statements on an IFRS basis.
The EEV basis recognises the long-term nature of the emergence of shareholder cash returns by reflecting the net present value of expected future cash flows.
Under the EEV methodology, profit is recognised as it is earned over the life of the products within the covered business.
The embedded value of the covered business is the sum of the shareholders net worth in respect of the covered business and the present value of the projected profit stream.
METHODOLOGY a Covered Business The covered business is the life, pension and investment business, including unit trust business, undertaken by the Group.
b Calculation of EEV on Existing Business Profit from existing business comprises the expected return on the value of in-force business at the start of the year plus the impact of any changes in the assumptions regarding future operating experience, plus changes in reserving basis other than economic assumption changes, plus profits and losses caused by differences between the actual experience for the year and the assumptions used to calculate the embedded value at the end of the year.
During the period a new contract for administration has been completed with our third party administrator which, after a period of development, will reduce future expenses.
The expected future impact is a modest increase to the EEV, applied as an operating assumption change on the EEV at the end of the year.
c Allowance for Risk The allowance for risk in the shareholder cash flows is a key feature of the EEV Principles.
The EEV Principles set out three main areas of allowance for risk in the embedded value: The risk discount rate: The allowance for the cost of financial options and guarantees: and The cost of holding both prudential reserves and any additional capital required.
The reported EEV allows for risk via a risk discount rate based on a bottom-up market-consistent approach, plus an appropriate additional margin for non-market risk.
The Group does not offer products that carry any significant financial guarantees or options.
d Non-Market Risk Best estimate assumptions have been established based on available information and when used within the market consistent calculations provide the primary evaluation of the impact of non-market risk.
However, some non-market operational risks are not symmetric, with adverse experience having a higher impact on the EEV than favourable experience.
Allowance has been made for this by increasing the risk discount rate by 0.73% 2014: 0.76%.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 190 NOTES TO THE EUROPEAN EMBEDDED VALUE BASIS CONTINUED II.
METHODOLOGY continued e The Risk Discount Rate A market-consistent embedded value for each product class has been calculated.
In principle, each cash flow is valued using the discount rate applied to such a cash flow in the capital markets.
However, in practice where cash flows are either independent or move linearly with market movement, it is possible to apply a simplified method known as the certainty equivalent approach.
Under this approach all assets are assumed to earn the risk free rate and are discounted using that risk free rate.
A market-consistent cost of holding the required capital has also been calculated.
As part of this approach, an appropriate adjustment has been made to reflect the fact that the value of tax relief on expenses does not move linearly with market movements.
Finally, an additional allowance for non-market risk has been made by increasing the discount rate by 0.73% 2014: 0.76%.
For presentational purposes, a risk discount rate has then been calculated which under the EEV basis gives the same value determined above.
This provides an average risk discount rate for the EEV and is described in relation to the risk free rate.
This average risk discount rate has also been used to calculate the published value of new business.
f Cost of Required Capital In light of the results of internal analysis, the Directors consider that the minimum regulatory capital provides adequate capital cover for the risks inherent in the covered business.
The required capital for the EEV calculations has therefore been set to the optimised minimum regulatory capital.
The EEV includes a reduction for the cost of holding the required capital.
No allowance has been made for any potential adjustment that the investors may apply because they do not have direct control over their capital.
Any such adjustment would be subjective, as different investors will have different views of what, if any, adjustment should be made.
g New Business With the exception of expenses, the new business contribution arising from reported new business premiums has been calculated using the same assumptions as used in the EEV at the end of the financial year.
The value of contractual incremental premiums to existing business is treated as new business in the year of the increment, rather than at the outset of the policy.
The value of new business has been established at the end of the reporting year and has been calculated using actual acquisition costs.
The new contract for administration completed with our third party administrator is expected to reduce future expenses.
The reduction in future expense has been applied to the total EEV at the end of the year, and the new business contribution for business written during the year therefore reflects the previous tariff.
h Operating Profit Operating profit is determined as the increase in the embedded value over the year excluding market-related impacts such as the effects of economic assumption changes and investment variances and grossed up for shareholder tax.
i Tax The EEV includes the present value of tax relief on life assurance expenses calculated on a market-consistent basis.
This calculation takes into account all expense and income amounts projected for the in-force business including any carried forward unutilised relief on expenses.
In determining the market-consistent value an appropriate allowance is made to reflect the fact that the value of tax relief on expenses does not move linearly with market movements.
When calculating the value of new business, priority is given to relieving the expenses relating to that business.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
