126 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS CONTINUED 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments that are expected to vest and it recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the statement of comprehensive income, such that the amount recognised for employee services are based on the number of shares that actually vest.
The charge to the statement of comprehensive income is not revised for any changes in market vesting conditions.
w Share Capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Where any Group Company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid is deducted from equity attributable to shareholders, as disclosed in the Treasury Shares reserve.
Where such shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration received is included in equity attributable to shareholders, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects.
x Foreign Currency Translation The Groups presentation and the Companys functional currency is pounds Sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into Sterling using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date and the gain or losses on translation are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities which are held at historical cost are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the date of transaction: those held at fair value are translated using exchange rates ruling at the date on which the fair value was determined.
y Segment Reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker, which is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Executive Committee of the Board.
z Current and Non-Current Disclosure Assets which are expected to be recovered or settled no more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as current within the notes to the financial statements.
Those expected to be recovered or settled more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as non-current.
Liabilities which are expected or due to be settled no more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as current within the notes to the financial statements.
Those liabilities which are expected or due to be settled more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as non-current.
aa Non-GAAP Measures Included within the financial statements are a number of non-GAAP measures, being underlying profit before tax, EEV, EPS on the post-tax underlying profit and the post-tax cash result.
A definition of the non-GAAP measures can be found within the Glossary and reconciliations to IFRS on pages 115, 131, 132 and 137.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES Judgements The primary areas in which the Group has applied judgement in applying accounting policies are in the classification of contracts between insurance and investment business and when applying the concept of control to determine which entities are subsidiaries.
Classification of Contracts Between Insurance and Investment Business Contracts with a significant degree of insurance risk are treated as insurance.
All other contracts are treated as investment contracts.
It is this classification that management considers to be a critical judgement: however, due to the carrying value of the insurance contract liabilities within the Statement of Financial Position, management does not consider insurance business to be significant to the Group.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 127 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities in which the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity including unit trusts in which the Group holds more than 30% of the units.
Estimates The principal areas in which the Group applies accounting estimates are: Determining the value of insurance contract liabilities.
Deciding the amount of management expenses that are treated as acquisition expenses.
Amortisation and recoverability of deferred acquisition costs and deferred income.
Determining the fair value, amortisation and recoverability of acquired in-force business.
Determining the fair value liability to policyholders for capital losses in unit funds.
Determining the value of deferred tax assets.
Determining the fair value of financial instruments and investment property.
Determining the fair value of share-based payments.
Recoverability of St. Jamess Place Partnership loans.
Measurement of prepaid operational readiness costs.
Fair value estimation of assets acquired.
Estimates are also applied in determining the amount of deferred tax asset recognised on unrelieved expenses and the value of otherprovisions.
Measurement of Insurance Contract Liabilities The assumptions used in the calculation of insurance contract liabilities that have an effect on the statement of comprehensive income of the Group are: The lapse assumption, which is set prudently based on an investigation of experience during the year.
The level of expenses, which is based on actual expenses in 2014 and expected long term rates.
The mortality and morbidity rates, which are based on the results of an investigation of experience during the year.
The assumed rate of investment return, which is based on current gilt yields.
Greater detail on the assumptions applied is shown in Note 19.
Acquisition Expenses Certain management expenses vary with the level of new business and have been treated as acquisition costs.
Each line of costs has been reviewed and its variability to new business volumes estimated on the basis of the level of costs that would be incurred if new business ceased.
Amortisation and Recoverability of Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC and Deferred Income DIR Deferred acquisition costs on investment contracts are amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected lifetime of the underlying contracts.
The expected lifetime of the contracts has been estimated from the experienced termination rates and the age of clients at inception and maturity.
Deferred income on investment contracts is amortised on a straight line basis over the expected lifetime of the underlying contracts, although on certain contracts, the impact of early withdrawal charges means the income is effectively recognised over a shorter period.
Deferred acquisition costs on insurance contracts are amortised over the period during which the costs are expected to be recoverable in accordance with the projected emergence of future margins.
Deferred acquisition costs relating to insurance and investment contracts are tested annually for recoverability by reference to expected future income levels.
Future income levels are projected using assumptions consistent with those underlying our embedded value calculation.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 128 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS CONTINUED 2.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Acquired In-Force Business There have been no new business combinations generating acquired in-force business during the year.
The acquired value of the in-force business is amortised on a basis that reflects the expected profit stream arising from the business acquired at the date of acquisition.
This profit stream is estimated from the experienced termination rates, expenses of management and age of the clients under the individual contracts as well as global estimates of investment growth, based on recent experience at the date of acquisition.
The acquired value of in-force business relating to insurance and investment contracts is tested annually for recoverability by reference to expected future income levels.
Valuing Capital Losses in the Unit Funds In line with IAS 12, the Group has recognised a deferred tax asset in relation to capital losses in the unit funds at the reporting date.
This asset has been tested for impairment against the level of capital gains realistically expected to arise in future.
Much of the benefit of the deferred tax asset on capital losses in the unit funds will be shared with policyholders.
The policyholder investment contract liability has therefore been increased to reflect the fair value of this additional benefit.
The assumptions that have a significant effect on the fair value of the liability are as follows: The assumed rate of investment return, which is based on current gilt yields.
The lapse assumption, which is set prudently based on experience during the year.
The assumed period for development of capital gains, which is estimated from recent experience.
Determining the Value of Deferred Tax Assets In line with IAS 12, the Group has recognised deferred tax assets for future tax benefits that will accrue.
The asset value has taken into consideration the likelihood of appropriate future income or gains against which the tax asset can be utilised.
In particular, future investment income from the existing assets and new business will be sufficient to utilise the unrelieved expenses, and capital gains crystallising in the unit linked funds will utilise the capital losses.
Tax assets in relation to deferred income will be utilised as the underlying income is recognised.
Determining the Fair Value of Financial Instruments and Investment Property In accordance with IFRS 13, the Group categorises financial instruments carried on the balance sheet at fair value using a three level hierarchy.
Financial instruments categorised as level 1 are valued using quoted market prices and therefore there is minimal judgement applied in determining fair value.
However, the fair value of financial instruments categorised as level 2 and, in particular, level 3 is determined using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques involve management judgement and estimates, the extent of which depends on the complexity of the instrument and the availability of market observable information.
Further details of these valuations are described in Note 27.
Determining the Fair Value of Share-Based Payments In determining the fair value of share-based payments and the related charge to the income statement, the Group makes assumptions about the future events and market conditions.
In particular, judgement must be formed as to the likely number of shares that will vest, and the fair value of each award granted.
Further details of these assumptions used are described in Note 30.
Recoverability of St. Jamess Place Partnership Loans During the normal course of business the Group provides loans to St. Jamess Place Partners in order to support the development and growth of the St. Jamess Place Partnership.
The St. Jamess Place Partnership loans are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost less impairment losses.
The recoverability of loans is measured and the asset is deemed impaired if the projected future margins are less than the carrying value of the asset.
The allowance for impairment losses on St. Jamess Place Partnership loans is managements best estimate of losses incurred in the portfolio at the statement of financial position date.
