Supplementary information Glossary Additional Tier 1 capital Basis point bps mortgage payments interest and or on a short-term and strategic basis.
Additional Tier 1 AT1 capital One hundredth of a per cent 0.01 principal.
Cost-to-income ratio consists of instruments issued by per cent : 100 basis points is 1 per Commercial paper Represents the proportion of total the Group and related share cent.
Used in quoting movements in An unsecured promissory note operating expenses to total premiums that meet the criteria for interest rates or yields on securities.
issued to finance short-term credit operating income.
inclusion in AT1 capital and are not BIPRU needs.
It specifies the face amount included in Common Equity Tier 1, Countercyclical capital buffer The Prudential Regulation paid to investors on the maturity and regulatory adjustments required Regulatory capital of up to 2.5 per Authoritys Prudential Sourcebook date.
in the calculation of AT1 capital.
cent of risk-weighted assets that is for Banks, Building Societies and Commercial real estate required to be held under Basel III Additional value adjustment Investment Firms.
Includes office buildings, industrial rules to ensure that banks build up See Prudential valuation Capital Adequacy Directive 2 property, medical centres, hotels, surplus capital when adjustment.
CAD2 malls, retail stores, shopping macroeconomic conditions indicate Advanced internal rating-based An amendment to CAD that gives centres, farm land, multi-family excess credit growth.
AIRB approach national regulators the discretion to housing buildings, warehouses, Counterparty credit risk The AIRB approach under the permit firms to use their own value garages and industrial properties.
The risk that a counterparty defaults BaselII framework is used to at risk model for calculating capital Commercial real estate loans are before satisfying its obligations calculate credit risk capital based on requirements subject to certain those backed by a package of under a contract.
the Groups own estimates of certain criteria.
Cover ratio Capital Requirements Directive Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 Represents the extent to which Advances-to-deposits ratio CRD IV capital non-performing loans are covered The ratio of total loans and advances Represents the CRD and Capital CET1 capital consists of the by impairment allowances.
to customers relative to total Requirements Regulation that common shares issued by the bank customer deposits.
A low advancesimplement the Basel III proposals in and related share premium, retained Credit conversion factor to-deposits ratio demonstrates that Europe.
earnings, accumulated other Either prescribed by The Prudential customer deposits exceed customer comprehensive income and other Capital resources Regulation Authoritys Prudential loans resulting from emphasis disclosed reserves, eligible Sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital after Sourcebook for Banks, Building placed on generating a high level of non-controlling interests and regulatory adjustments.
Societies and Investment Firms or stable funding from customers.
regulatory adjustments required in modelled by the Group, an estimate Claw-back the calculation of CET1.
ASEAN of the amount the Group expects a Remuneration already paid to an Association of South East Asian Constant currency customer to have drawn down individual, which has to be returned Nations ASEAN which includes the Constant currency change is further on a facility limit at the point to the Group under certain Groups operation in Brunei, derived by applying a simple of default.
Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, translation of the previous period Credit default swaps Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.
Client due diligence CDD functional currency number in each A credit derivative is an arrangement CDD is an important part of the entity using the current average and Asset backed securities ABS whereby the credit risk of an asset Groups management of financial period-end US dollar exchange Securities that represent an interest the reference asset is transferred crime, reputational and regulatory rates to the income statement and in an underlying pool of referenced from the buyer to the seller of risk.
CDD enables us to understand balance sheet respectively.
The referenced pool can protection.
A credit default swap is a our clients and their activities so that comprise any assets which attract a Contractual maturity contract where the protection seller financial crime risks are identified set of associated cash flows but are Contractual maturity refers to the receives premium or interest-related and mitigated.
CDD is performed at commonly pools of residential or final payment date of a loan or other payments in return for contracting to the point of onboarding the client commercial mortgages and in the financial instrument, at which point make payments to the protection and on an ongoing basis.
As a case of collateralised debt all the remaining outstanding buyer upon a defined credit event.
general rule, no products or services obligations CDOs, the reference principal will be repaid and interest Credit events normally include can be provided to a client until CDD pool may be ABS.
bankruptcy, payment default on a has been completed.
reference asset or assets, or Attributable profit to ordinary Core Tier 1 capital Collateralised debt obligations downgrades by a rating agency.
shareholders Core Tier 1 capital comprises CDOs Profit for the year after noncalled-up ordinary share capital and Credit institutions Securities issued by a third party controlling interests and the eligible reserves plus non-controlling An institution whose business is to which reference asset backed declaration of dividends on interests, less goodwill and other receive deposits or other repayable securities and or certain other preference shares classified as intangible assets and deductions funds from the public and to grant related assets purchased by the equity.
relating to excess expected losses credits for its own account.
CDOs may feature exposure over eligible provisions and Basel II to sub-prime mortgage assets Credit risk mitigation securitisation positions as specified The capital adequacy framework through the underlying assets.
Credit risk mitigation is a process to by the UKs Prudential Regulation issued by the Basel Committee on mitigate potential credit losses from Collectively assessed loan Authority.
Banking Supervision BCBS in June any given account, customer or impairment provisions 2006 in the form of the International Core Tier 1 capital ratio portfolio by using a range of tools Also known as portfolio impairment Convergence of Capital Core Tier 1 capital as a percentage such as collateral, netting provisions.
Impairment assessment Measurement and Capital of risk-weighted assets.
agreements, credit insurance, credit on a collective basis for Standards.
homogeneous groups of loans that Corporate plan Basel III are not considered individually Detailed plan produced as an output Credit valuation adjustments In December 2010, the Basel significant and to cover losses that of the Groups formalised annual CVA Committee on Banking Supervision have been incurred but have not yet budgeting, management reporting An adjustment to fair value primarily issued the Basel III rules text, which been identified at the balance sheet and review process.
It comprises a in respect of derivative contracts was updated in June 2011, and date.
Typically Retail Clients are five-year forecast of the Groups that reflects the possibility that the represents the details of assessed on a portfolio basis.
profitability, capital position, and counterparty may default such that strengthened global regulatory funding and liquidity requirements.
the Group would not receive the full Commercial mortgage backed standards on bank capital adequacy The corporate plan provides market value of the transactions.
The new requirements information to the Board which is Securities that represent interests in Customer deposits will be phased in and fully used to ensure the adequacy of a pool of commercial mortgages.
Money deposited by all individuals implemented by 1 January 2019. resources available for the Group to Investors in these securities have the and companies that are not credit meet its business objectives, both right to cash received from future institutions including securities sold 353 Glossary under repurchase agreement repo.
amounts owed to other domestic or prudential standards in the UK.
It governments and central banks.
The Such funds are recorded as liabilities foreign credit institutions by the has a strategic objective to ensure Basel III Rules require this ratio to be in the Groups balance sheet under Group including securities sold that the relevant markets function at least 100 per cent.
Debt restructuring Forbearance Loans where individual identified This is when the terms and Dividend per share Forbearance takes place when a impairment provisions have been provisions of outstanding debt Represents the entitlement of each concession is made to the raised and also include loans which agreements are changed.
This is shareholder in the share of the contractual terms of a loan in are collateralised or where often done in order to improve cash profits of the company.
Calculated in response to an obligors financial indebtedness has already been flow and the ability of the borrower the lowest unit of currency in which liabilities.
written down to the expected to repay the debt.
It can involve the shares are quoted.
The impaired loan Free deliveries altering the repayment schedule as category may include loans which, Effective tax rate A transaction in which securities, well as debt or interest charge while impaired, are still performing.
The tax on profits on ordinary foreign currencies or commodities reduction.
activities as a percentage of profit have been paid for before receiving Impairment allowances Debt securities on ordinary activities before them or where securities, foreign Impairment allowances are a Debt securities are assets on the taxation.
currencies or commodities have provision held on the balance sheet Groups balance sheet and been delivered before receiving as a result of the raising of a charge Encumbered assets represent certificates of payment for them.
against profit for the incurred loss.
On-balance sheet assets pledged or indebtedness of credit institutions, An impairment allowance may either used as collateral in respect of Free funds public bodies or other undertakings be identified or unidentified and certain of the Groups liabilities.
Free funds includes equity capital, excluding those issued by central individual specific or collective retained reserves, current year banks.
unremitted profits and capital Represents the 17 European Union Debt securities in issue injections net of proposed Individually assessed loan countries that have adopted the Debt securities in issue are dividends.
It does not include debt impairment provisions euro as their common currency.
The transferable certificates of capital instruments, unrealised Also known as specific impairment 17 countries are Austria, Belgium, indebtedness of the Group to the profits or losses or any non-cash provisions.
Impairment is measured Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, bearer of the certificate.
individually for assets that are Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, liabilities of the Group and include individually significant to the Group.
Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Funded unfunded exposures certificates of deposits.
Typically, assets within the Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Exposures where the notional Corporate & Institutional Clients Deferred tax asset Spain.
amount of the transaction is funded segment of the Group are assessed Income taxes recoverable in future or unfunded.
Represents exposures Expected loss individually.
periods in respect of deductible where there is a commitment to The Groups measure of anticipated temporary differences between the provide future funding but funds Innovative Tier 1 capital loss for exposures captured under accounting and tax base of an asset have been released not released.
Innovative tier 1 capital consists of an internal ratings-based credit risk or liability that will result in tax instruments which incorporate approach for capital adequacy Global Systemically Important deductible amounts in future certain features, the effect of which calculations.
It is measured as the Institutions G-SII periods, the carry-forward of tax is to weaken but only marginally the Group-modelled view of anticipated in November 2011, The Financial losses and the carry-forward of key characteristics of Tier 1 capital loss based on probability of default, Stability Board established a unused tax credits.
that is, fully subordinated, perpetual loss given default and exposure at methodology to identify G-SIIs and non-cumulative.
Innovative Deferred tax liability default, with a one-year time based on 12 principal indicators.
Tier 1 capital is subject to a limit of Income taxes payable in future horizon.
Designation will result in the 15 per cent of total Tier 1 capital.
periods in respect of taxable application of a Common Equity Exposures temporary differences between the Tier 1 buffer between 1 per cent and Interest rate risk Credit exposures represent the accounting and tax base of an asset 3.5 per cent, to be phased in by Interest rate risk arises due to the amount lent to a customer, together or liability that will result in taxable 1 January 2019.
The list of G-SIIs is investment of equity and reserves with any undrawn commitment.
re-assessed through annual into rate-sensitive assets, as well as Exposure at default EAD rescoring of banks and a triennial some tenor mismatches between Defined benefit obligation The estimation of the extent to review of the methodology.
National debt issuance and placements.
The present value of expected future which the Group may be exposed to regulators have discretion to payments required to settle the Internal ratings-based IRB a customer or counterparty in the introduce higher charges than the obligations of a defined benefit approach event of, and at the time of, that minimum.
In Capital Requirements scheme resulting from employee The IRB approach is used to counterpartys default.
At default, Directive IV, this is implemented via service.
calculate risk-weighted assets in the customer may not have drawn the G-SII buffer.
accordance with the Basel Capital Defined benefit scheme the loan fully or may already have Global Systemically Important Accord where capital requirements Pension or other post-retirement repaid some of the principal, so that Institutions G-SII buffer are based on a firms own estimates benefit scheme other than a defined exposure is typically less than the A capital buffer prescribed in the EU of certain parameters.
under Capital Requirements Internal Model Approach IMA Defined contribution scheme External Credit Assessment Directive IV, to address risks in the The approach used to calculate Pension or other post-retirement Institutions ECAI financial sector as a whole, or one or market risk capital and risk-weighted benefit scheme where the For the standardised approach to more sub-sectors, to be deployed assets with an internal market risk employers obligation is limited to its credit risk for sovereigns, corporates as necessary by each EU member model approved by the PRA under contributions to the fund.
and institutions, external ratings are state with a view to mitigate the terms of Capital Requirements used to assign risk weights.
In Delinquency Directive IV Capital Requirements external ratings must come from the the UK this was transposed in A debt or other financial obligation is Regulation.
Formerly referred to as Prudential Regulation Authoritys January 2015 and is to be applied to considered to be in a state of Capital Adequacy Directive 2. approved rating agencies, known as ring-fenced banks and building delinquency when payments are ECAI: namely Moodys, Standard & societies over a certain threshold.
Loans and advances are Poors and Fitch.
A debt security, treasury bill or considered to be delinquent when High-quality liquid assets similar instrument with a credit rating consecutive payments are missed.
Financial Conduct Authority Assets that are unencumbered, measured by external agencies of Also known as arrears.
FCA liquid in markets during a time of AAA to BBB.
The Financial Conduct Authority stress and, ideally, are central bank Deposits by banks regulates the conduct of financial eligible.
These include, for example, Leverage ratio Deposits by banks comprise firms and, for certain firms, cash and claims on central A ratio introduced under Capital 354 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Supplementary information Requirements Directive IV that for car or home purchases, medical central banks, derivatives net of framework that enhances compares Tier 1 capital to total care, home repair, holidays and master netting agreements, comparability between banks and exposures, including certain other consumer uses.
investment debt and equity further promotes improvements in exposures held off-balance sheet as securities, and letters of credit and risk practices.
Loan-to-value ratio adjusted by stipulated credit guarantees.
The loan-to-value ratio is a Private equity investments conversion factors.
Intended to be a mathematical calculation that Net interest income Equity securities in operating simple, non-risk based backstop expresses the amount of a first The difference between interest companies generally not quoted on measure.
mortgage lien as a percentage of the received on assets and interest paid a public exchange.
Investment in Leveraged finance total appraised value of real on liabilities.
private equity often involves the Loans or other financing agreements property.
The loan-to-value ratio is investment of capital in private Net interest margin provided to companies whose used in determining the appropriate companies.
Capital for private equity The margin is expressed as net overall level of debt is high in relation level of risk for the loan and therefore investment is raised by retail or interest income divided by average to their cash flow net debt: earnings the correct price of the loan to the institutional investors and used to interest earning assets.
before interest tax, depreciation and borrower.
fund investment strategies such as amortisation EBITDA typically Net stable funding ratio NSFR leveraged buyouts, venture capital, Loans past due arising from private equity sponsorThe ratio of available stable funding growth capital, distressed Loans on which payments have led acquisitions of the businesses to required stable funding over a investments and mezzanine capital.
been due for up to a maximum of 90 concerned.
one-year time horizon, assuming a days including those on which Probability of default PD stressed scenario.
It is a longer-term Liquid asset buffer partial payments are being made.
PD is an internal estimate for each liquidity measure designed to These assets include high-quality borrower grade of the likelihood that Loss given default LGD restrain the amount of wholesale government or central bank an obligor will default on an LGD is the percentage of an borrowing and encourage stable securities, certain deposits with obligation.
exposure that a lender expects to funding over a one-year time central banks and securities issued lose in the event of obligor default.
Profit attributable to ordinary by designated multilateral shareholders development banks to meet the Malus Non-performing loans NPLs Profit for the year after nonPrudential Regulation Authoritys An arrangement that permits the A non-performing loan is any loan controlling interests and dividends requirement for liquidity.
Group to prevent vesting of all, or that is more than 90 days past due declared in respect of preference part of the amount of a deferred or is otherwise individually impaired, shares classified as equity.
Liquid asset ratio remuneration award in relation to other than a loan which is: Ratio of total liquid assets to total risk outcomes or performance.
Renegotiated before 90 days past Prudential valuation adjustment assets.
Liquid assets comprise cash due, and on which no default in A deduction from Common Equity Master netting agreement less restricted balances, net interest payments or loss of Tier 1 capital, to reflect the An agreement between two interbank, treasury bills and debt principal is expected difference between fair value and counterparties that have multiple securities less illiquid securities.
Renegotiated at or after 90 days prudent value positions, where the derivative contracts with each other past due, but on which there has application of prudent results in a Liquidation portfolio that provides for the net settlement been no default in interest or lower absolute carrying value than A portfolio of assets which is beyond of all contracts through a single principal payments for more than recognised in the financial our current risk tolerance metrics payment, in a single currency, in the 180 days since renegotiation, and statements.
and is held for liquidation.
event of default on, or termination of, against which no loss of principal any one contract.
Prudential Regulation Authority Liquidity and credit is expected.
PRA enhancements Mezzanine capital Normalised earnings The Prudential Regulation Authority Credit enhancement facilities are Financing that combines debt and Profit attributable to ordinary is the statutory body responsible for used to enhance the equity characteristics.
For example, shareholders adjusted for profits or the prudential supervision of banks, creditworthiness of financial a loan that also confers some profit losses of a capital nature: amounts building societies, credit unions, obligations and cover losses due to participation to the lender.
consequent to investment insurers and a small number of asset default.
Two general types of Minimum requirement for own transactions driven by strategic significant investment firms in the credit enhancement are third-party funds and eligible liabilities intent: and other infrequent and or UK.
The PRA is a subsidiary of the loan guarantees and selfMREL exceptional transactions that are Bank of England.
enhancement through overA requirement under the Bank significant or material in the context collateralisation.
Liquidity Renegotiated loans Recovery and Resolution Directive of the Groups normal business enhancement makes funds available Loans and advances are generally for EU resolution authorities to set a earnings for the period.
if required, for other reasons than renegotiated either as part of an minimum requirement for own funds asset default, e. g. to ensure timely Over-the-counter OTC ongoing customer relationship or in and eligible liabilities for banks.
repayment of maturing commercial derivatives response to an adverse change in Similar to Total Loss Absorbing paper.
A bilateral transaction e. g. the circumstances of the borrower.
Capacity, MREL is intended to derivatives that is not exchange In the latter case renegotiation can Liquidity coverage ratio LCR ensure there is sufficient equity and traded and that is valued using result in an extension of the due A short-term liquidity measure that specific types of liabilities within the valuation models.
date of payment or repayment plans considers a 30-day period of Group that can absorb losses and under which the Group offers a liquidity stress.
recapitalise the Group, facilitating an Pillar 1 concessionary rate of interest to orderly resolution that minimises any The first Pillar of the three pillars of Loans and advances genuinely distressed borrowers.
impact on financial stability and Basel II Basel III which provides the This represents lending made under Such assets will be individually ensures the continuity of critical approach to calculation of the bilateral agreements with customers impaired where the renegotiated functions and avoids exposing minimum capital requirements for entered into in the normal course of payments of interest and principal taxpayers to loss.
credit, market and operational risk.
business and is based on the legal will not recover the original carrying form of the instrument.
An example Net asset value per share Pillar 2 amount of the asset and are defined of a loan product is a home loan.
Ratio of net assets total assets less Pillar 2 requires banks to undertake as forborne loans.
In other cases, total liabilities to the number of a comprehensive assessment of renegotiation may lead to a new Loans to banks ordinary shares outstanding at the their risks and to determine the agreement, which would be treated Amounts loaned to credit institutions end of a reporting period.
appropriate amounts of capital to be as a new loan.
including securities bought under held against these risks where other reverse repurchase.
Net exposure Repo Reverse repo suitable mitigants are not available.
The aggregate of loans and A repurchase agreement or repo is a Loans to individuals advances to customers loans and Pillar 3 short-term funding agreement which Money loaned to individuals rather advances to banks after impairment Pillar 3 aims to provide a consistent allows a borrower to sell a financial than institutions.
The loans may be provisions, restricted balances with and comprehensive disclosure asset, such as asset backed 355 Glossary securities or government bonds as Securitisation insolvency or liquidation of the prospect of further recovery.
As part of the Securitisation is a process by which issuer, are subordinated to the Write-downs will occur when, and to agreement, the borrower agrees to debt instruments are aggregated claims of depositors and other the extent that, the whole or part of repurchase the security at some into a pool, which is used to back creditors of the issuer.
later date, usually less than 30 days, new securities.
A company sells Sub-prime repaying the proceeds of the loan.
assets to a structured entity who Sub-prime is defined as loans to For the party on the other end of the then issues securities backed by the borrowers typically having weaker transaction buying the security and assets based on their value.
This credit histories that include payment agreeing to sell in the future it is a allows the credit quality of the assets delinquencies and potentially more reverse repurchase agreement or to be separated from the credit severe problems such as court reverse repo.
rating of the original company and judgements and bankruptcies.
They transfers risk to external investors.
Residential mortgage may also display reduced repayment A loan to purchase a residential Senior debt capacity as measured by credit property which is then used as Senior debt, frequently issued in the scores, high debt-to-income ratios, collateral to guarantee repayment of form of senior notes, is debt that or other criteria indicating the loan.
The borrower gives the takes priority over other unsecured heightened risk of default.
lender a lien against the property, or otherwise more junior debt Tier 1 capital and the lender can foreclose on the owed by the issuer.
Senior debt has Tier 1 capital comprises Core Tier 1 property if the borrower does not greater seniority in the issuers capital plus innovative Tier 1 repay the loan per the agreed terms.
capital structure after subordinated securities and preference shares Also known as a home loan.
In the event the issuer goes and tax on excess expected losses bankrupt, senior debt theoretically Residential mortgage backed less material holdings in credit or must be repaid before other securities RMBS financial institutions.
Securities that represent interests in Tier 1 capital ratio a group of residential mortgages.
Significant investment holdings Tier 1 capital as a percentage of Investors in these securities have the Significant investment holdings are risk-weighted assets.
right to cash received from future holdings in undertakings other than mortgage payments interest and or subsidiaries, joint ventures or Tier 2 capital principal.
associates, where the shareholding Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying is greater than, or equal to, 20 per subordinated liabilities, allowable Return on equity cent of the nominal value of any portfolio impairment provision and Represents the ratio of the current class of shares, or a book value unrealised gains in the eligible years profit available for distribution greater than 20 per cent of the revaluation reserves arising from the to ordinary shareholders to the Groups assets.
fair valuation of equity instruments weighted average ordinary held as available-for-sale.
shareholders equity for the reporting Sovereign exposures period.
Exposures to central governments Total Loss Absorbing Capacity and central government TLAC Risk-weighted assets RWA departments, central banks and A standard set by the Financial A measure of a banks assets entities owned or guaranteed by the Stability Board to ensure global adjusted for their associated risks.
Sovereign systemically important institutions Risk weightings are established in exposures, as defined by the have a sufficient amount of specific accordance with the Basel Capital European Banking Authority, types of liabilities, which can be Accord as implemented by the includes only exposures to central used to absorb losses and Financial Services Authority.
Risk capital adjusted profit These proposals are intended to Standardised approach A risk-adjusted, profit-based funding facilitate an orderly resolution that In relation to credit risk, a method for mechanism.
This is applied as a minimises any impact on financial calculating credit risk capital combination of automatic stability, ensures the continuity of requirements using External Credit adjustments and other adjustments critical functions, and avoids Assessment Institutions ratings and determined by the Remuneration exposing taxpayers to loss.
In relation Committee for specific risk and to operational risk, a method of UK bank levy control matters that are not already calculating the operational capital A levy that applies to certain UK taken into account through requirement by the application of a banks and the UK operations of automatic adjustments.
supervisory defined percentage foreign banks from 1 January 2011.
Risks-not-in-VaR RNIV charge to the gross income of eight The levy is payable each year based A framework for identifying and specified business lines.
on a percentage of the chargeable quantifying marginal types of market liabilities of the Group as at Stressed value at risk risk that are not captured in the 31 December.
A regulatory market risk measure value at risk VaR measure for any based on potential market Value at risk VaR reason, such as being a far-tail risk movements for a continuous Value at risk is an estimate of the or the necessary historical market one-year period of stress for a potential loss which might arise from data not being available.
market movements under normal Secured fully and partially market conditions, if the current Structured finance notes A secured loan is a loan in which the positions were to be held A structured note is an investment borrower pledges an asset as unchanged for one business day, tool which pays a return linked to the collateral for a loan which, in the measured to a confidence level of value or level of a specified asset or event that the borrower defaults, the 97.5 per cent.
index and sometimes offers capital Group is able to take possession of.
protection if the value declines.
Write-downs All secured loans are considered Structured notes can be linked to After an advance has been identified fully secured if the fair value of the equities, interest rates, funds, as impaired and is subject to an collateral is equal to or greater than commodities and foreign currency.
impairment allowance, the stage the loan at the time of origination.
All may be reached whereby it is other secured loans are considered Subordinated liabilities concluded that there is no realistic to be partly secured.
Liabilities which, in the event of 356 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015
