Supplementary information Shareholder information Dividend and interest payment dates Ordinary shares On 3 November 2015, the Board announced, as part of the 2015 strategic review, it had taken the decision to pay no final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Preference shares 1st half yearly dividend 2nd half yearly dividend 3 7 per cent Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 1 April 2016 1 October 2016 8 1 8 4 per cent Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 1 April 2016 1 October 2016 6.409 per cent Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each 30 January 2016 30 July 2016 7.014 per cent Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each 30 January 2016 30 July 2016 Annual general meeting Country-by-country reporting The annual general meeting AGM details are as follows: In accordance with the requirements of the Capital Requirements country-by-country reporting Regulations 2013, the Group will publish Date and time Location additional country-by-country information in respect of the year ended Wednesday 4 May 2016 etc venues 31 December 2015, on or before 31 December 2016.
We have also 11.00am London time 200 Aldersgate published our approach to tax and tax policy.
6.00pm Hong Kong time St Pauls This information will be available on the Groups website London EC1A 4HD at sc.
com Details of the business to be transacted at the AGM are included ShareCare in the Notice of AGM.
ShareCare is available to shareholders on the Companys UK register Details of voting at the Companys AGM and of proxy who have a UK address and bank account, and allows you to hold votes cast can be found on the Companys website at yourStandard Chartered shares in a nominee account.
com willbe held in electronic form so you will no longer have to worry about Interim results keeping your share certificates safe.
If you join ShareCare you will still The interim results will be announced to the London Stock Exchange, be invited to attend the Companys AGM and receive your dividend at The Hong Kong Stock Exchange, the Bombay Stock Exchange and the the same time as everyone else.
ShareCare is free to join and there are National Stock Exchange of India and put on the Companys website.
If you would like to receive more information, please visit our website at investors.
cfm or contact the shareholder helpline on 0370 702 0138.
The INR dividend is per Indian Depository Receipt 349 Shareholder information Donating shares to ShareGift Taxation Shareholders who have a small number of shares often find it Information on taxation applying to dividends paid to you if you are a uneconomical to sell them.
An alternative is to consider donating them shareholder in the United Kingdom, Hong Kong or the US will be sent to the charity ShareGift registered charity 1052686, which collects to you with your dividend documents.
donations of unwanted shares until there are enough to sell, and uses Electronic communications the proceeds to support UK charities.
There is no implication for If you hold your shares on the UK register and in future you would like Capital Gains Tax no gain or loss when you donate shares to charity, to receive the Annual Report and Accounts electronically rather than and UK taxpayers may be able to claim income tax relief on the value bypost, please register online at: www.
on Register and follow the instructions.
You will need to have your Further information can be obtained from the Companys Shareholder or ShareCare reference number when you log on.
You can registrars or from ShareGift on 020 7930 3737 or from find this on your share certificate or ShareCare statement.
org registered you can also submit your proxy vote and dividend election electronically, and change your bank mandate or address information.
Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS Dividends can be paid straight into your bank or building society account.
Forward-looking statements It is possible that this document could or may contain forward-looking Please register online at www.
co. uk or contact our registrar for a mandate form statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events.
These forward-looking statements Registrars and shareholder enquiries can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or If you have any enquiries relating to your shareholding and you hold current facts.
Forward-looking statements often use words such as your shares on the UK register, please contact our registrar anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, will, may, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, should, would, could or other words of similar meaning.
Undue reliance Bristol BS99 7ZY or call the shareholder helpline number on should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very 03707020138. nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties If you hold your shares on the Hong Kong branch register and you have and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, enquiries, please contact Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services and the Groups plans and objectives, to differ materially from those Limited, 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road East, expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.
There are several factors which could cause actual results to differ You can check your shareholding at: materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking www.
Among the factors that could cause actual results to differmaterially from those described in the forward looking statements If you hold Indian Depository Receipts and you have enquiries, arechanges in the global, political, economic, business, competitive, pleasecontact Karvy Computershare Private Limited, Karvy Selenium market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, changes in tax rates, future business combinations or dispositions Hyderabad Soo 032, India.
andother factors specific to the Group.
Chinese translation Any forward-looking statement contained in this document is based If you would like a Chinese version of the 2015 Annual Report and onpast or current trends and or activities of the Group and should not Accounts please contact Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue Limited, 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road East, in the future.
No statement in this document is intended to be a profit WanChai, Hong Kong.
forecast or to imply that the earnings of the Group for the current yearor future years will necessarily match or exceed the historical 18317M orpublished earnings of the Group.
Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register who have asked to Except as required by any applicable regulations, the Group expressly receive corporate communications in either Chinese or English can disclaims any obligation to revise or update any forward-looking change this election by contacting Computershare.
statement contained within this document, regardless of whether thosestatements are affected as a result of new information, future If there is a dispute between any translation and the English version events or otherwise.
ofthis Annual Report and Accounts, the English text shall prevail.
The information, statements and opinions contained in this document do not constitute a public offer under any applicable legislation or an offer or solicitation of any securities, or any advice or recommendation with respect to any securities, in any jurisdiction.
