Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies a Statement of compliance Loan loss provisioning refer to Risk and capital review on page 179 The Group financial statements consolidate those of Standard Chartered Deferred taxation refer to note 27 PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates and jointly Fair value of financial instruments refer to note 15 controlled entities.
The parent company financial statements present Goodwill impairment refer to note 25 information about the Company as a separate entity and not about itsgroup.
Retirement benefit obligations refer to note 32 Both the parent company financial statements and the Group financial Provisions for liabilities and charges refer to note 31 statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in Impact of revision of credit valuation adjustment and funding accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS valuation adjustment methodology andIFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as endorsed The Group enhanced its methodology for estimating the credit valuation by the European Union EU.
EU-endorsed IFRS may differ from IFRS adjustment CVA for derivatives as at 31 December 2015.
Previously, published by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB theCVA was based on an expected counterparty loss calculation using ifastandard has not been endorsed by the EU.
historical default probabilities, whereas the enhanced methodology uses In publishing the parent company financial statements together with market-implied default probabilities.
In addition, the funding valuation theGroup financial statements, the Company has taken advantage adjustment FVA was also enhanced moving from bank internal funding ofthe exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to rates to market-based rates.
The net effect of the changes in estimates present its individual statement of comprehensive income and related reduced net trading income by $863 million.
It is impracticable to notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
estimate the effect of the changes in fair value estimates on future periods.
See note 15 for further information on the methodologies used.
The following parts of the Risk and capital review form part of these financial statements: d Fiduciary activities The Group commonly acts as trustee and in other fiduciary capacities a From the start of Risk profile on page 161 to the end of the Strategic that result in the holding or placing of assets on behalf of individuals, risk section on page 199 excluding: trusts, retirement benefit plans and other institutions.
The assets and Asset backed securities, page 183 income arising thereon are excluded from these financial statements, as they are not assets and income of the Group.
Country cross-border risk, page 186 e New accounting standards adopted by the Group Market risk changes risks not in value at risk, page 188 There were no new standards applied during the year ended Market risk changes backtesting, page 188 31 December 2015.
Mapping of market risk items to the balance sheet, page 189 f New accounting standards in issue but not yet effective Encumbered assets, page 193 A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for periods beginning after 1 January 2016 Readily available to secure funding, page 194 and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial Liquidity coverage ratio and net stable funding ratio, page 191 statements.
These include: Operational risk, page 197 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Other risks, page 199 IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014 and has an effective date of 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and b Regulatory compliance, review, request for information and Measurement and introduces new requirements for the classification and investigations on page201 measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, a new model c From the start of Risk management approach on page 204 to the based on expected credit losses for recognising loan loss provisions and end of Liquidity risk stress testing on page 214, excluding Country provides for simplified hedge accounting by aligning hedge accounting cross-border risk on page 211 and where indicated on page 214 more closely with an entitys risk management methodology.
d From the start of the CRD IV capital base section on page 219 The standard requires a move from four measurement classifications to the end of Movement in total capital section on page 220 under IAS 39 to three: amortised cost, fair value through profit or loss FVTPL and fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI.
b Basis of preparation The existing IAS 39 categories of held to maturity, loans and The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the receivables and available-for-sale AFS are removed.
historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of cashsettled share-based payments, available-for-sale assets, and financial IFRS 9 removes the exception that allows certain equity investments, assets and liabilities including derivatives at fair value through profit and derivatives linked to such investments, to be measured at cost.
The Company financial statements have been prepared on FVOCI, a new measurement category, differs from AFS since IFRS 9 is ahistorical cost basis, as modified by cash-settled share-based more prescriptive on when a financial asset can be measured at FVOCI: payments and the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities including there is no longer reclassification of any fair value gains or losses to the derivatives at fair value through profit or loss.
profit or loss and any equity investments classified as FVOCI are no longer tested for impairment.
Equity investments in the scope of IFRS 9 c Significant accounting estimates and judgements can be measured at FVTPL or FVOCI if specific requirements are met.
In determining the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities, theGroup makes assumptions of the effects of uncertain future events The measurement of loan loss provisions will move from an incurred on those assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
The Groups loss model to a forward-looking expected credit loss model.
Expected estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and credit losses will be measured as either 12-month expected credit expectation of future events and are reviewed periodically.
Further losses or where significant credit deterioration has occurred, lifetime information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other expected credit losses.
The expected credit loss model under IFRS 9 key sources of estimation uncertainty, are set out in the relevant isdifferent to the expected loss model used for regulatory purposes.
disclosure notes for the following areas: 242 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 1.
Accounting policies continued The Group is assessing the impact that IFRS 9 will have on its IFRS 16 introduces a single lessee accounting model and requires consolidated financial statements through a Group-wide project, but it alessee to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term is not yet practicable to quantify the potential effect.
The standard is ofmore than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value.
not yet endorsed by the EU.
Alessee is required to recognise a right-of-use asset representing itsright to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability Classification and measurement representing its obligation to make lease payments.
IFRS 16 Financial assets are classified on the basis of the business model within substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements which they are held, and their contractual cash flow characteristics.
Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as Financial assets can only be held at amortised cost if the instruments operating leases or finance leases, and to account for those two types are held in order to collect the contractual cash flows, and where those of leases differently.
The impact of the standard is currently being contractual cash flows are solely principal and interest on the principal assessed.
It is not yet practicable to quantify the effect of IFRS 16 on amount outstanding.
Debt instruments that meet the amortised cost these consolidated financial statements.
definition but might be sold from time to time are held at FVOCI, and in certain circumstances equity instruments can be designated as FVOCI.
g IFRS and Hong Kong accounting requirements Unrealised gains or losses are deferred in reserves until the asset is As required by the Hong Kong Listing Rules, an explanation of the sold or credit impaired.
All other financial assets will be held at FVTPL.
differences in accounting practices between EU-endorsed IFRS and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards is required to be disclosed.
The requirements for the classification and measurement of financial There would be no significant differences had these accounts been liabilities were carried forward unchanged from IAS 39.
However, the prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
requirements relating to the fair value option for financial liabilities were changed to address own credit risk and, in particular, the presentation The accounting policies set out below have been applied of gains and losses within other comprehensive income.
The fair value consistently across the Group and to all years presented of the Groups changes in own credit risk on fair value elected liabilities inthese financial statements.
will be presented within other comprehensive income rather than net h Consolidation trading income.
Subsidiaries Impairment Subsidiaries are all entities, including structured entities, which the The impairment requirements applied to financial assets measured Group controls.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, atamortised costs and FVOCI, lease receivables, and certain loan orhas rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity commitments and guarantees.
IFRS 9 incorporates an expected loss andhas the ability to affect those returns through its power over the approach for recognising credit losses.
The assessment of power is based on the Groups practical expected credit losses or lifetime expected credit losses for all ability to direct the relevant activities of the entity unilaterally for the amortised cost and FVOCI debt instruments would be recognised Groups own benefit and is subject to reassessment if and when one depending on whether or not significant credit deterioration has ormore of the elements of control change.
Subsidiaries are fully occurred since origination or acquisition.
Where significant deterioration consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively obtains has not occurred, a provision equating to 12 months of expected control.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases, creditlosses would be recognised whereas if there is a significant and where any interest in the subsidiary remains, this is remeasured deterioration in credit risk, lifetime expected credit losses would be toits fair value and the change in carrying amount is recognised in the recognised.
Moving from an incurred loss approach under IAS 39 to income statement.
Details of the Groups principal subsidiaries are anexpected loss approach will require management to incorporate given in note 23. forward-looking information into the Groups impairment models.
Structured entities are consolidated when the substance of the Thisis a significant change from the current incurred loss model.
relationship between the Group and the structured entity indicates the Hedge accounting Groups power over the structured entity.
Details of the Groups use of The general hedge accounting model aligns hedge accounting more structured entities are set out in note 24. closely with risk management activities and establishes a more principle-based approach to hedge accounting.
The International Associates and joint arrangements Accounting Standards Board is working on a separate project to Joint arrangements are where two or more parties either have rights address the accounting for hedges of open portfolios, usually referred tothe assets, and obligations of the joint arrangement joint operations, to as macro hedge accounting.
Until such time as that project is or have rights to the net assets of the joint arrangement joint venture.
complete, entities can choose between applying the hedge accounting The Group evaluates the contractual terms of joint arrangements to requirements of IFRS 9 or to continue to apply the existing hedge determine whether a joint arrangement is a joint operation or a joint accounting requirements in IAS 39. venture.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group did not have any contractual interest in joint operations.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The effective date of IFRS 15 is 1 January 2018 with early Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for by adoptionpermitted.
theequity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates and joint ventures includes The standard provides a principles-based approach for revenue goodwill identified on acquisition net of any accumulated impairment recognition and introduces the concept of recognising revenue for loss.
The Groups share of its associates and joint ventures postobligations as they are satisfied.
The standard must be applied acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, retrospectively.
While it is expected that a significant proportion of andits share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive theGroups revenue will be outside the scope of IFRS 15, the impact income is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition ofthe standard is currently being assessed.
It is not yet practicable movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the toquantify the effect of IFRS 15 on these consolidated financial investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate or a joint statements.
IFRS 15 has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any IFRS 16 Leases other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further The effective date of IFRS 16 is 1 January 2019 with early adoption losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf permitted if IFRS 15 is also adopted at or before application of IFRS 16. of the associate or joint venture.
IFRS 16 has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
243 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its Transactions and balances associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional interest in the associates and joint ventures.
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the transaction date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there is any such transactions, and from the translation at year-end exchange rates objective evidence of impairment in the investment in associates and of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are joint ventures.
Such evidence includes a significant or prolonged recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and decline in the fair value of the Groups investment in an associate or liabilities are translated at historical exchange rates if held at historical joint venture below its cost, among other factors.
cost, or year-end exchange rates if held at fair value, and the resulting Details of the Groups interest in associates and joint ventures are foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in either the income provided in note 23. statement or shareholders equity depending on the treatment of the gain or loss on the asset or liability.
Investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures In the Companys financial statements, investment in subsidiaries, Foreign currency translation associates and joint ventures are held at cost less impairment and The results and financial position of all the entities included in the Group dividends from pre-acquisition profits received prior to 1 January 2009, financial statements that have a functional currency different from the if any.
Groups presentation currency are accounted for as follows: Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated losseson transactions between Group companies are eliminated at the closing rate at the balance sheet date intheGroup accounts.
Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at Business combinations average exchange rates or at rates on the date of the transaction The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the where exchange rates fluctuate significantly acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is All resulting exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 are measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments recognised as a separate component of equity issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, together with the fair value of any contingent consideration payable.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other share of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities acquired is currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recorded as goodwill see note 25 for details on goodwill recognised by taken to other comprehensive income.
When a foreign operation is sold the Group.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net or capital repatriated they are recognised in the income statement as assets and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary acquired, the part of the gain or loss on disposal.
difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a Where the fair values of the identifiable net assets and contingent foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity liabilities acquired have been determined provisionally, or where and translated at the closing rate.
contingent or deferred consideration is payable, adjustments arising j Income recognition from their subsequent finalisation are not reflected in the income Income from financial instruments statement if i they arise within 12 months of the acquisition date or Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial relate to acquisitions completed before 1 January 2014 and ii the instruments held at fair value through profit or loss are included in the adjustments arise from better information about conditions existing at income statement in the period in which they arise.
Contractual interest the acquisition date measurement period adjustments.
Such income and expense on financial instruments held at fair value through adjustments are applied as at the date of acquisition and, if applicable, profit or loss is recognised within net interest income.
prior year amounts are restated.
All changes that are not measurement period adjustments are reported in income other than changes in For available-for-sale assets and financial assets and liabilities held at contingent consideration not classified as financial instruments, which amortised cost, interest income and interest expense is recognised are accounted for in accordance with the appropriate accounting using the effective interest method.
policy, and changes in contingent consideration classified as equity, The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised which is not remeasured.
cost of a financial asset or a financial liability and of allocating the Changes in ownership interest in a subsidiary, which do not result in a interest income or interest expense over the relevant period.
The loss of control, are treated as transactions between equity holders and effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash are reported in equity.
payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the previously amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
When calculating the held equity interest is remeasured at the acquisition date fair value with effective interest rate, the Group estimates cash flows considering all the resulting gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
contractual terms of the financial instrument for example, prepayment Details of the Groups interest in associates and joint ventures are options but does not consider future credit losses.
The calculation provided in note 23. includes all fees paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and i Foreign currencies all other premiums or discounts.
Items included in the Group financial statements for each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary Where the estimates of cash flows have been revised, the carrying economic environment in which the entity operates the functional amount of the financial asset or liability is adjusted to reflect the actual currency of that entity.
Both the Company and Group financial and revised cash flows, discounted at the instruments original effective statements are presented in US dollars, which is the functional and interest rate.
The adjustment is recognised as interest income or presentation currency of the Company and the presentation currency expense in the period in which the revision is made.
244 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 1.
Accounting policies continued If the financial asset has been reclassified, subsequent increases in the For certain loans and advances and debt securities with fixed rates of estimates of future cash receipts as a result of increased recoverability interest, interest rate swaps have been acquired with the intention of are recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate from the significantly reducing interest rate risk.
To significantly reduce the date of the change in estimate.
accounting mismatch between assets and liabilities and measurement bases, these loans and advances and debt securities have been Once a financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has been designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Details of financial assets written down as a result of an impairment loss, interest income is designated at fair value are disclosed in notes 15 and 16. recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
The Group has also designated certain financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss where either the liabilities: Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-forsale financial assets, other than foreign exchange gains and losses Have fixed rates of interest and interest rate swaps or other interest from monetary items, are recognised directly in equity, until the financial rate derivatives have been entered into with the intention of asset is derecognised or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or significantly reducing interest rate risk loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in profit or loss.
Are exposed to foreign currency risk and derivatives have been Dividends on equity instruments are recognised in the income acquired with the intention of significantly reducing exposure to statement within other income when the Groups right to receive market changes payment is established.
Have been acquired to fund trading asset portfolios or assets, or Fees and commissions where the assets and liabilities are managed, and performance Fees and commissions are generally recognised on an accrual basis evaluated, on a fair value basis for a documented risk management when the service has been provided or significant act performed.
Loan or investment strategy syndication fees are recognised as revenue when the syndication has Designation of certain liabilities at fair value through profit or loss been completed and the Group retained no part of the loan package significantly reduces the accounting mismatch between fair value and for itself, or retained a part at the same effective interest rate as for the amortised cost expense recognition.
Details of financial liabilities other participants.
Portfolio and other management advisory fees and designated at fair value are disclosed in notes 15 and 16. service distribution fees are recognised based on the applicable contracts, usually on a time apportionment basis.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or k Cash and cash equivalents determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and it is For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash expected that substantially all of the initial investment will be recovered, equivalents comprise cash, on demand and overnight balances with other than because of credit deterioration.
central banks unless restricted and balances with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition, including treasury bills Held-to-maturity and other eligible bills, loans and advances to banks, and short-term Held-to-maturity assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or government securities.
determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the intention and ability to hold to maturity.
l Financial assets and liabilities classification excluding derivatives Available-for-sale The Group classifies its financial assets into the following measurement Available-for-sale assets are those non-derivative financial assets categories: a financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss: intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be sold b loans and receivables: c held-to-maturity: and d available-for-sale.
in response to liquidity requirements or changes in interest rates, Financial liabilities are classified as either held at fair value through profit exchange rates, commodity prices or equity prices.
or loss, or at amortised cost.
Management determines the classification Further detail on the application of these policies is set out in note 15. of its financial assets and liabilities at initial recognition or, where applicable, at the time of reclassification.
Details of financial assets and Financial liabilities held at amortised cost liabilities held by the Group are provided in notes 15, 16 and 17.
Financial liabilities, which include borrowings not classified held at fair value through profit or loss, are classified as amortised cost instruments.
Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss Preference shares which carry a mandatory coupon that represents a This category has two sub-categories: financial assets and liabilities market rate of interest at the issue date, or which are redeemable on a held for trading, and those designated at fair value through profit or loss specific date or at the option of the shareholders are classified as at inception.
A financial asset or liability is classified as trading if financial liabilities and are presented in other borrowed funds.
The acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
dividends on these preference shares are recognised in the income statement as interest expense on an amortised cost basis using the Financial assets and liabilities may be designated at fair value through effective interest method.
profit or loss when: Fair value of financial assets and liabilities The designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants assets or liabilities on a different basis at the measurement date in the principal or in the absence of the most A group of financial assets and or liabilities is managed and its advantageous market to which the Group has access at that date.
The performance evaluated on a fair value basis fair value of a liability reflects its non-performance risk.
The assets or liabilities include embedded derivatives and such The fair value of financial instruments is generally measured on the derivatives are required to be recognised separately basis of the individual financial instrument.
However, when a group of financial assets and financial liabilities is managed on the basis of its net exposure to either market risks or credit risk, the fair value of the group of financial instruments is measured on a net basis.
245 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued The fair values of quoted financial assets and liabilities in active markets Whether the counterparty is in default of principal or interest are based on current prices.
A market is regarded as active if payments transactions for the asset or liability take place with sufficient frequency When a counterparty files for bankruptcy protection or the local and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
If the equivalent and this would avoid or delay discharge of its obligation market for a financial instrument and for unlisted securities is not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
Where the Group files to have the counterparty declared bankrupt orfiles a similar order in respect of a credit obligation Initial recognition Purchases and sales of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value Where the Group consents to a restructuring of the obligation, through profit or loss, and financial assets classified as held-to-maturity resulting in a diminished financial obligation, demonstrated by a and available-for-sale, are initially recognised on the trade date the material forgiveness of debt or postponement of scheduled date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Loans payments are recognised when cash is advanced to the borrowers.
All financial Where the Group sells a credit obligation at a material credit-related instruments are initially recognised at fair value, which is normally the economic loss: or where there is observable data indicating that transaction price plus, for those financial assets and liabilities not there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows carried at fair value through profit and loss, directly attributable ofa group of financial assets, although the decrease cannot yet be transaction costs.
identified with specific individual financial assets In certain circumstances the initial fair value may be based on a Assets carried at amortised cost valuation technique which may lead to the recognition of profits or The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment losses at the time of initial recognition.
However, these profits or losses exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, can only be recognised when the valuation technique used is based and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not solely on observable market data.
In those cases where the initially individually significant.
recognised fair value is based on a valuation model that uses inputs which are not observable in the market, the difference between the If the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment exists transaction price and the valuation model is not recognised for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, immediately in the income statement.
itincludes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment.
Assets The difference is amortised to the income statement until the inputs that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an become observable, or the transaction matures or is terminated.
impairment loss is or continues to be recognised, are not included Subsequent measurement inacollective assessment of impairment.
Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a loan and aresubsequently carried at fair value, with gains and losses arising receivable or a held-to-maturity asset has been incurred, the amount from changes in fair value taken directly to the net trading income line ofthe loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying inthe income statement.
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently carried at fair future credit losses that have not been incurred, discounted at the value, with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value taken assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset tothe available-for-sale reserve within equity until the asset is sold, is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of or is impaired, when the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the the loss is recognised in the income statement.
If a loan and receivable income statement.
or held-to-maturity asset has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity financial assets are determined under the contract.
As a practical expedient, the Group subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest may measure impairment on the basis of an instruments fair value method.
using an observable market price.
Financial liabilities are subsequently stated at amortised cost, with any The calculation of the present value of the estimated future cash flows difference between proceeds net of directly attributable transaction of a collateralised financial asset reflects the cash flows that may result costs and the redemption value recognised in the income statement from foreclosure, less costs for obtaining and selling the collateral, over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
whether or not foreclosure is probable.
Further details on collateral held In addition to these instruments, the carrying value of a financial by the Group is discussed in the Risk and capital review on page 168. instrument carried at amortised cost that is the hedged item in a For the purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, financial qualifying fair value hedge relationship is adjusted by the fair value assets are grouped on the basis of similar credit risk characteristics gainor loss attributable to the hedged risk.
i. e. on the basis of the Groups grading process which considers asset type, industry, geographic location, collateral type, past-due status and Impairment of financial assets other relevant factors.
These characteristics are relevant to the The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is estimation of future cash flows for groups of such assets being objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets indicative of the debtors ability to pay all amounts due according isimpaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired tothecontractual terms of the assets being evaluated.
and impairment losses are incurred if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events occurring Future cash flows in a group of financial assets that are collectively after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event, and that loss evaluated for impairment are based on the probability of default event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows inherent within the portfolio of impaired loans or receivables and the ofthe financial asset or group of financial assets that can be historical loss experience for assets with credit risk characteristics reliablyestimated.
similar to those in the group.
Historical loss experience is adjusted onthe basis of current observable data to reflect the effects of current The Group considers the following factors in assessing objective conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical loss evidence of impairment: experience is based, and to remove the effects of conditions in the historical period that do not exist currently.
246 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 1.
Accounting policies continued To the extent a loan is irrecoverable, it is written off against the related Held-to-maturity assets must be reclassified to the  for loan impairment.
Such loans are written off after all the salecategory if the portfolio becomes tainted following the sale of necessary procedures have been completed, it is decided that there is otherthan an insignificant amount of held-to-maturity assets prior to no realistic probability of recovery and the amount of the loss has been their maturity.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off Financial assets are reclassified at their fair value on the date of decrease the amount of the provision for loan impairment in the income reclassification.
For financial assets reclassified out of the .
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment sale category into loans and receivables, any gain or loss on those loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event assets recognised in shareholders equity prior to the date of occurring after the impairment was recognised such as an reclassification is amortised to the income statement over the improvement in the debtors credit rating, the previously recognised remaining life of the financial asset, using the effective interest method.
impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account.
Theamount of the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Details of reclassifications are set out in note 15.
Further details on the application of these policies is set out in the Sale and repurchase agreements Riskand capital review on pages 177 to 181.
Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements repos remain on thebalance sheet: the counterparty liability is included in deposits by Available-for-sale assets banks or customer accounts, as appropriate.
Securities purchased Where objective evidence of impairment exists for available-for-sale under agreements to resell reverse-repos are recorded as loans and financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference advances to other banks or customers, as appropriate.
The difference between the amortised cost and the current fair value, less any between sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the over the life of the agreements using the effective interest method.
income statement is reclassified from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Securities lent to counterparties are also retained in the financial statements.
Securities borrowed are not recognised in the financial Available-for-sale debt securities are assessed for impairment in the statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case same way as assets carried at amortised cost.
If, in a subsequent thepurchase and sale are recorded with the gain or loss included period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale intrading income.
increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, the impairment Details of repo and reverse-repo transactions entered into by the loss is reversed through the income statement.
For equity securities, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value Derecognition of an equity security below its cost is considered, among other factors, Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash in assessing objective evidence of impairment.
Impairment losses flowsfrom the financial assets have expired or where the Group has recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
If reversed through the income statement.
substantially all the risks and rewards have been neither retained nor transferred and the Group has retained control, the assets continue to Renegotiated loans be recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement.
Loans whose original terms have been modified, including those subject to forbearance strategies, are considered renegotiated loans.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished.
Ifthe renegotiations are on terms that are not consistent with those Afinancial liability is extinguished when the obligation is discharged, readily available on the market, this provides objective evidence of cancelled or expires.
impairment and the loan is assessed accordingly.
If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the balance Offsetting financial instruments sheet and the difference between the carrying amount of the liability Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in and the consideration paid is included in Other income.
the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the m Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value in response or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
to changes in interest rates, financial instrument prices, commodity Further details on offsetting are set out in note 15. prices, foreign exchange rates, credit risk and indices.
Derivatives are categorised as trading unless they are designated as hedging Reclassifications instruments.
Reclassifications of financial assets, other than as set out below, or of financial liabilities between measurement categories are not permitted All derivatives are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair following initial recognition.
value, with all revaluation gains recognised in profit and loss except where cash flow or net investment hedging has been achieved, in Held for trading non-derivative financial assets can only be transferred which case the effective portion of changes in fair value is recognised out of the held at fair value through profit or loss category in the within other comprehensive income.
following circumstances: to the available-for-sale category, where, in rare circumstances, they are no longer held for the purpose of selling or Fair values may be obtained from quoted market prices in active repurchasing in the near term: or to the loan and receivables category, markets, recent market transactions, and valuation techniques, where they are no longer held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing including discounted cash flow models and option pricing models, in the near term and they would have met the definition of a loan and asappropriate.
Where the initially recognised fair value of a derivative receivable at the date of reclassification and the Group has the intent contract is based on a valuation model that uses inputs which are not and ability to hold the assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
observable in the market, it follows the same initial recognition accounting policy as for other financial assets and liabilities.
All Financial assets can only be transferred out of the available-for-sale derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is positive and category to the loan and receivables category where they would have asliabilities when fair value is negative.
met the definition of a loan and receivable at the date of reclassification and the Group has the intent and ability to hold the assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
247 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued Certain derivatives embedded in other financial instruments, such as Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting the conversion option in a convertible bond held, are valued as Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments not qualifying for separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks are hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is n Financial guarantee contracts not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
These embedded Under a financial guarantee contract, the Group, in return for a fee, derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value undertakes to meet a customers obligations under the terms of a debt recognised in the income statement.
Embedded derivatives continue to instrument if the customer fails to do so.
A financial guarantee is be presented with the host contract and are not separately disclosed or recognised as a liability: initially at fair value and, if not designated as at included within derivatives.
fair value through profit or loss, subsequently at the higher of its initial The method of recognising the resulting fair value gain or loss depends value less cumulative amortisation and any provision under the contract on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if measured in accordance with IAS 37.
Amortisation is calculated so so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain asto recognise fees receivable in profit or loss over the period of derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or theguarantee.
liabilities or firm commitments fair value hedge : 2 hedges of highly o Leases probable future cash flows attributable to a recognised asset or liability, Where a Group company is the lessee or a forecasted transaction cash flow hedge : or 3 hedges of the net The leases entered into by the Group are primarily operating leases.
investment of a foreign operation net investment hedges.
The total payments made under operating leases are charged to the Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this way, income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
provided certain criteria are met.
When an operating lease is terminated before the lease period has The Group and Company document at the inception of the transaction, expired, any payment required to be made to the lessor by way of the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as penalty is recognised as an expense in the period in which termination well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking takes place.
The Group also documents its Where the Group is a lessee under finance leases, the leased assets assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of are capitalised and included in Property, plant and equipment with a whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly corresponding liability to the lessor recognised in Other liabilities.
effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged Finance charges payable are recognised over the period of the lease items.
based on the interest rate implicit in the lease to give a constant Details of the derivative financial instruments held by the Group, periodic rate of return.
including those held for hedge accounting, are provided in note 17.
Where a Group company is the lessor Fair value hedge When assets are leased to customers under finance leases, the present Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify value of the lease payments is recognised as a receivable.
The as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the income difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged receivable is recognised as unearned finance income.
Lease income is asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
If the hedge no recognised over the term of the lease using the net investment method longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the before tax, which reflects a constant periodic rate of return ignoring carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest tax cash flows.
method is used is amortised to the income statement over the period Assets leased to customers under operating leases are included within tomaturity or derecognition.
Property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives.
Cash ow hedge Rental income on these leased assets is recognised in the income The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are statement on a straight-line basis unless another systematic basis is designated and qualify as cash flow hedging instruments is recognised more representative.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is p Intangible and tangible fixed assets recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
thefair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, associate or joint venture When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or included in Intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised included in Investments in associates.
Goodwill included in intangible when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income assets is assessed at each balance sheet date for impairment and statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of transferred to the income statement.
goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Detailed calculations are performed Net investment hedge based on discounting expected pre-tax cash flows of the relevant cash Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for generating units CGUs and discounting these at an appropriate similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging discount rate, the determination of which requires the exercise of instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in judgement.
the translation reserve: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses CGUs represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement when is monitored for internal management purposes.
These are smaller than the foreign operation is disposed of.
the Groups reportable segments as set out in note 2 as the Group Further details on the application of these policies are set out in note 17. views its reportable segments on a global basis.
Note 25 sets out themajor CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated.
248 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 1.
Accounting policies continued Acquired intangibles Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future At the date of acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, intangible assets taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences which are deemed separable and that arise from contractual or other can be utilised.
legal rights are capitalised and included within the net identifiable assets Current and deferred tax relating to items which are charged or acquired.
These intangible assets are initially measured at fair value, which credited directly to equity, is credited or charged directly to equity and reflects market expectations of the probability that the future economic is subsequently recognised in the income statement together with the benefits embodied in the asset will flow to the entity, and are amortised current or deferred gain or loss.
on the basis of their expected useful lives four to 16 years.
At each balance sheet date, these assets are assessed for indicators of impairment.
Details of the income statement tax charge is produced in note 12, In the event that an assets carrying amount is determined to be greater andof deferred taxation in note 27. than its recoverable amount, the asset is written down immediately.
r Provisions Computer software The Group recognises a provision for a present legal or constructive Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of obligation resulting from a past event when it is more likely than not that the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
it will be required to transfer economic benefits to settle the obligation Costs associated with the development of software are capitalised and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
where it is probable that it will generate future economic benefits in Where a liability arises based on participation in a market at a specified excess of its cost.
Computer software costs are amortised on the date such as the UK bank levy, the obligation is recognised in the basisof expected useful life three to five years.
Costs associated with financial statements on that date and is not accrued over the period.
maintaining software are recognised as an expense as incurred.
At each balance sheet date, these assets are assessed for indicators of Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past events, impairment.
In the event that an assets carrying amount is determined whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events, or to be greater than its recoverable amount, the asset is written down present obligations arising from past events that are not recognised immediately.
because either an outflow of economic benefits is not probable or the amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent Property, plant and equipment liabilities are not recognised but information about them is disclosed Land and buildings comprise mainly branches and offices.
All property, unless the possibility of any outflow of economic benefits in settlement plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation is remote.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
s Employee benefits Retirement benefit obligations Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or are The Group operates a number of pension and other post-retirement recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is benefit plans around the world, including defined contribution plans probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will and defined benefit plans.
flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Allother repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly during the financial period in which they are incurred.
or privately administered pension plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis, and such amounts are charged to operating expenses.
Freehold land is not depreciated although it is subject to impairment The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions testing.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straighthave been paid.
line method to allocate their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: For funded defined benefit plans, the liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the Buildings up to 50 years balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
For unfunded Leasehold improvements life of lease, up to 50 years defined benefit plans the liability recognised at the balance sheet dateis the present value of the defined benefit obligation.
The defined Equipment and motor vehicles three to 15 years benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using Aircraft and ships up to 25 years the projected unit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted outflows using an interest rate equal to the yield on high-quality if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
At each balance sheet date, corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the assets are also assessed for indicators of impairment.
In the event that benefits will be paid, and that have a term to maturity approximating an assets carrying amount is determined to be greater than its tothe term of the related pension liability.
recoverable amount, the asset is written down immediately to the recoverable amount.
Actuarial gains and losses that arise are recognised in shareholders equity and presented in the statement of other comprehensive income Gains and losses on disposals are included in the income statement.
The Group determines the net interest expense q Taxation on the net defined liability for the year by applying the discount rate Income tax payable on profits is based on the applicable tax law in used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the each jurisdiction and is recognised as an expense in the period in annual period to the then net defined benefit liability, taking into which profits arise.
account any changes in the net defined benefit liability during the year as a result of contributions and benefit payment.
Net interest expense Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary and other expense related to defined benefit plans are recognised differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and inthe income statement.
their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have Details of the Groups retirement benefit obligations are provided been enacted or substantially enacted as at the balance sheet date, innote 32. and that are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
249 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued Share-based compensation t Share capital The Group operates equity-settled and cash-settled share-based Financial instruments issued are classified as equity when there is no compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received contractual obligation to transfer cash, other financial assets or issue in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
available number of own equity instruments.
Incremental costs directly For deferred share awards granted as part of an annual performance attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity award, the expense is recognised over the period from the start of the as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
performance period to the vesting date.
For example, the expense for Dividends on ordinary shares and preference shares classified as awards granted in 2015 in respect of 2014 performance, which vest in equity are recognised in equity in the period in which they are declared.
2016-2018, is recognised as an expense over the period from 1 January 2014 to the vesting dates in 2016-2018.
For all other awards, Securities which carry a discretionary coupon and have no fixed the expense is recognised over the period from the date of grant to the maturity or redemption date are classified as other equity instruments.
Interest payments on these securities are recognised, net of tax, as distributions from equity in the period in which they are paid.
For equity-settled awards, the total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options Where the Company or other members of the consolidated Group at the date of grant, which excludes the impact of any non-market purchase the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid vesting conditions for example, profitability and growth targets.
The isdeducted from the total shareholders equity of the Group and or of fair value of equity instruments granted is based on market prices, the Company as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
Where such ifavailable, at the date of grant.
In the absence of market prices, the shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received fairvalue of the instruments is estimated using an appropriate valuation isincluded in shareholders equity of the Group and or the Company.
technique, such as a binomial option pricing model.
Non-market Details of the Groups share capital and other equity instruments are vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of set out in note 33. options that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected u Assets held for sale to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, Non-current assets such as property and disposal groups including ifany, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to both the assets and liabilities of the disposal groups are classified as equity over the remaining vesting period.
Forfeitures prior to vesting held for sale and measured at the lower of their carrying amount and attributable to factors other than the failure to satisfy a non-market fair value less cost to sell when: i their carrying amounts will be vesting condition are treated as a cancellation and the remaining recovered principally through sale: ii they are available-for-sale in their unamortised charge is debited to the income statement at the time present condition: and iii their sale is highly probable.
Immediately before the initial classification as held for sale, the carrying The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs amounts of the assets or assets and liabilities in the disposal group are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when are measured in accordance with the applicable accounting policies the options are exercised.
Cash-settled awards are revalued at each balance sheet date and a liability recognised on the balance sheet for all unpaid amounts, with any changes in fair value charged or credited to staff costs in the income statement until the awards are exercised.
Where forfeitures occur prior to vesting that are attributable to factors other than a failure to satisfy market-based performance conditions, the cumulative charge incurred up to the date of forfeiture is credited to the income statement.
The Company records the value of the equity-settled awards as a deemed investment in subsidiaries.
Any revaluation related to cashsettled awards is recorded as an amount due from subsidiary undertakings.
Details of the Groups share-based compensation schemes are set outin note 35.
250 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 2.
Segmental information The Group is organised on a worldwide basis for management and reporting purposes into four client segments: Corporate & Institutional Clients, Commercial Clients, Private Banking Clients and Retail Clients.
The products offered to these client segments are summarised under Income by product below.
The focus is on broadening and deepening the relationship with clients, rather than maximising a particular product line.
Hence the Group evaluates segmental performance based on overall profit or loss before taxation excluding corporate items not allocated and not individual product profitability.
Product revenue information is used as a way of assessing client needs and trends in the marketplace.
The strategies adopted by the client segments need to be adapted to local market and regulatory requirements, which is the responsibility of country management teams.
While not the primary driver of the business, country performance is an important part of the Groups structure and is also used to evaluate performance and reward staff.
Corporate items not allocated are not aggregated into the client segments because of the one-off nature of these items.
The Groups entity-wide disclosure, which includes profit before tax, net interest margin and structure of the Groups deposits, comprises geographic areas, classified by the location of the customer, except for Financial Market products, which are classified by the location of the dealer.
Transactions between the client segments and geographic areas are carried out on an arms-length basis.
Apart from the entities that have beenacquired in the past two years, the Groups central expenses have been distributed between the client segments and geographic areas in proportion to their direct costs and the benefit of the Groups capital has been distributed between segments in proportion to their average credit risk-weighted assets.
In the year in which an acquisition is made, the Group does not charge or allocate the benefit of the Groups capital.
The distribution of central expenses is phased in over two years, based on the estimate of central management costs associated with the acquisition.
Includes $495 million benefit relating to own credit adjustment, $863 million charge relating to a change in the methodology for estimating credit and funding valuation adjustments Corporate & Institutional and net gains on businesses sold held for sale of $218 million Retail $219 million gain and Commercial $1 million loss 2.
Includes $695 million charge relating to restructuring actions Corporate & Institutional $231 million, Commercial $56 million, Private Bank $8 million and Retail $400 million 3.
Relates to $440 million for UK bank levy 4.
Includes $968 million charge relating to restructuring actions in Corporate & Institutional 5.
Relates to $488 million goodwill impairment charge in Taiwan $362 million and restructuring actions in Thailand $126 million 6.
Includes $56 million charge relating to restructuring actions Corporate & Institutional $13 million, Commercial $20 million, Retail $23 million 7.
Includes $885 million capital expenditure relating to operating lease assets 251 Notes to the financial statements 2.
Includes an own credit adjustment of $100 million Corporate & Institutional net benefit relating to own credit adjustment and $2 million net losses on businesses sold held-for-sale 2.
Relates to $366 million for UK bank levy and $300 million for US civil monetary penalty 3.
Relates to $726 million and $32 million goodwill impairment charge in North East Asia and Greater China respectively 4.
Includes capital expenditure of $1,966 million in respect of operating lease asset The following table details operating income by product: 2015 2014 $million $million Lending and Portfolio Management 844 1,026 Transaction Banking 3,363 3,802 Trade 1,593 1,956 Cash Management and Custody 1,770 1,846 1 Financial Markets 2,371 3,500 Corporate Finance 2,145 2,487 Wealth Management 1,729 1,701 Retail Products 4,340 4,840 Cards, Personal Loans and Unsecured Lending 1,962 2,576 Deposits 1,184 1,222 Mortgage and Auto 835 938 2 Other Retail Products 359 104 Asset and Liability Management 425 653 Principal Finance 72 325 1,2 Total operating income 15,289 18,334 1.
Includes $495 million 2014: $100 million benefit relating to own credit adjustment and $863 million charge relating to a change in the methodology for estimating credit and funding valuation adjustments 2.
Includes $218 million net gain 2014: $2 million net loss relating to businesses sold held for sale 252 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 2.
Segmental information continued Performance by geographic regions and key countries Entity-wide information The Group manages its reportable client segments on a global basis.
The Groups operations are based in the eight main geographic regions presented below: information is also provided for key countries in which the Group operates.
The UK is the home country of the Company.
Includes $495 million benefit relating to own credit adjustment, $863 million charges relating to a change in the methodology for estimating credit and funding valuation adjustments, and $218 million net gain on businesses sold held for sale 2.
Includes $695 million charge relating to restructuring actions and $440 million for UK bank levy 3.
Includes $968 million charge relating to restructuring actions 4.
Includes $488 million of goodwill impairment charge and $56 million relating to restructuring actions 5.
Based on the location of the customers rather than the booking location of the loan 7.
Includes $885 million capital expenditure in Greater China relating to operating lease assets 253 Notes to the financial statements 2.
Includes $100 million benefit relating to own credit adjustment and $2 million net losses on businesses sold held for sale 2.
Includes $366 million UK bank levy in Europe and $300 million civil monetary penalty in Americas 3.
Includes $32 million and $726 million related to goodwill impairment charge in Greater China and North East Asia respectively 4.
Based on the location of the customers rather than booking location 6.
Includes $1,966 million capital expenditure in Greater China relating to operating lease assets 254 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 2.
Includes own credit adjustment, change in the methodology for estimating credit and funding valuation adjustments and net gain on businesses sold held for sale 2.
Includes restructuring actions and bank levy 3.
Based on the location of the customers rather than the booking location of the loan 6.
Includes own credit adjustment, and net losses on businesses sold held for sale 2.
Includes $366 million bank levy in the UK 3.
Includes $32 million and $726 million related to goodwill impairment charge in Hong Kong and Korea respectively 4.
The analysis is based on the location of the customers rather than booking location of the loan 6.
Includes $1,966 million capital expenditure in Hong Kong relating to operating lease assets 255 Notes to the financial statements 2.
256 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 2.
257 Notes to the financial statements 3.
Interest income 2015 2014 $million $million Balances at central banks 238 246 Treasury bills 647 780 Loans and advances to banks 1,020 1,206 Loans and advances to customers 10,266 12,167 Listed debt securities 712 823 Unlisted debt securities 1,623 1,662 Accrued on impaired assets discount unwind 107 100 14,613 16,984 Of which from financial instruments held at: Amortised cost 11,808 14,281 Available-for-sale 2,425 2,373 Held at fair value through profit or loss 380 330 4.
Interest expense 2015 2014 $million $million Deposits by banks 396 408 Customer accounts: Interest bearing current accounts and savings deposits 971 1,009 Time deposits 2,501 2,960 Debt securities in issue 773 866 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds: Repayable within five years 43 74 Repayable after five years 522 664 5,206 5,981 Of which from financial instruments held at: Amortised cost 5,073 5,541 Held at fair value through profit or loss 133 440 5.
Net fees and commission 2015 2014 $million $million Transaction Banking 1,307 1,484 Financial Markets 173 353 Corporate Finance 310 462 Wealth Management 1,211 1,151 Retail Products 560 668 Others 46 61 3,607 4,179 Total fee income arising from financial instruments that are not fair valued through profit or loss is $1,190 million 2014: $1,596 million and arising from trust and other fiduciary activities of $156 million 2014: $156 million.
Total fee expense arising from financial instruments that are not fair valued through profit or loss is $40 million 2014: $79 million and arising from trust and other fiduciary activities of $25 million 2014: $21 million.
258 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 6.
Net trading income 2015 2014 $million $million Gains less losses on instruments held for trading: 1 Foreign currency 1,608 298 Trading securities 584 337 Interest rate derivatives 687 1,306 Credit and other derivatives 423 39 760 1,980 Gains less losses from fair value hedging: Gains less losses from fair value hedged items 198 1,301 Gains less losses from fair value hedging instruments 192 1,272 6 29 Gains less losses on instruments designated at fair value: Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 118 65 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 391 834 Own credit adjustment 495 100 Derivatives managed with financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 160 744 146 55 912 1,896 1.
Includes foreign currency gains and losses arising on the translation of foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities 2015 includes $863 million of valuation losses relating to the change in the methodology for calculating the credit and funding valuation adjustments see note 15.
Gains less losses on instruments held for trading is presented by product type.
Gains or losses on certain trading securities are offset by gains or losses within interest rate derivatives and credit and other derivatives.
Other operating income 2015 2014 $million $million Other operating income includes: Rental income from operating lease assets 550 562 Gains less losses on disposal of financial instruments: Available-for-sale 332 426 Loans and receivables 4 8 Net gain on sale of businesses 222 13 Dividend income 111 97 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 66 49 Receipt of tax refund related income 13 26 Fair value loss on business classified as held for sale 4 15 8.
Operating expenses 2015 2014 $million $million Staff costs: Wages and salaries 4,924 5,035 Social security costs 154 168 Other pension costs note 32 299 333 Share-based payment costs note 35 146 234 Other staff costs 1,596 1,018 7,119 6,788 Variable compensation is included within share-based payments costs and wages and salaries.
Further details are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on page 115.
Other staff costs primarily include redundancy and other restructuring expenses of $695 million due to the ongoing Strategic Review.
Other costs include training, travel costs and other staff related costs.
259 Notes to the financial statements 8.
Operating expenses continued The following tables summarise the number of employees within the Group: 2015 Support Business services Total As at 31 December 42,036 42,040 84,076 Average for the year 45,207 42,111 87,318 2014 Support Business services Total As at 31 December 49,638 41,302 90,940 Average for the year 48,642 40,293 88,935 The Company employed nil staff as at 31 December 2015 2014: nil and it incurred costs of $4 million 2014: $4 million.
Details of directors pay and benefits and interests in shares are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 116 to 132.
Transactions with directors, officers and other related parties are disclosed in note 43.
2015 2014 $million $million Premises and equipment expenses Rental of premises 433 454 Other premises and equipment costs 376 432 Rental of computers and equipment 22 24 831 910 2015 2014 $million $million General administrative expenses 1 UK bank levy 440 366 2 Civil monetary penalty 300 Other general administrative expenses 2,119 2,042 2,559 2,708 1.
The UK bank levy is applied on the chargeable equities and liabilities on the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
Key exclusions from chargeable equities and liabilities include Tier 1 capital, insured or guaranteed retail deposits, repos secured on certain sovereign debt and liabilities subject to netting.
The rate of the levy for 2015 is the blended rate of 0.197 per cent for chargeable short-term liabilities, with a lower rate of 0.098 per cent generally applied to chargeable equity and long-term liabilities i. e. liabilities with a remaining maturity greater than one year 2.
In August 2014, Standard Chartered reached a settlement with the New York Department of Financial Services NYDFS regarding deficiencies in its anti-money laundering transaction surveillance system at the New York branch Auditors remuneration Auditors remuneration is included within other general administration expenses.
The following fees were payable by the Group to their principal auditor, KPMG LLP and its associates together KPMG : 2015 2014 $million $million Audit fees for the Group statutory audit: Fees relating to the current year 3.9 3.9 Fees payable to KPMG for other services provided to the Group: Audit of Standard Chartered PLC subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation Fees relating to the current year 10.9 10.8 Total audit and audit related fees 14.8 14.7 Other services pursuant to legislation 5.4 3.1 Tax services 0.4 0.5 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 2.1 All other services 0.9 0.5 Total fees payable 23.6 18.8 260 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 8.
Operating expenses continued The following is a description of the type of services included within the categories listed above: Audit fees are in respect of fees payable to KPMG LLP for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Group and the separate financial statements of Standard Chartered PLC.
They exclude amounts payable for the audit of Standard Chartered PLCs subsidiaries and amounts payable to KPMG LLPs associates.
These amounts have been included in Fees payable to KPMG for other services provided to the Group Other services pursuant to legislation include services for assurance and other services that are in relation to statutory and regulatory filings, including comfort letters and interim reviews Tax services include tax compliance services and tax advisory services Services related to corporate finance transactions include fees payable to KPMG for transaction related work irrespective of whether the Group is vendor or purchaser, such as acquisition due diligence and long-form reports.
During 2015, this included $1.7 million in respect of the rights issue All other services include other assurance and advisory services such as transaction services, ad hoc accounting advice, reporting accountants work on capital raising and review of financial models Expenses incurred during the provision of services and which have been reimbursed by the Group are included within auditors remuneration.
In addition to the above, KPMG estimates it has been paid fees less than $0.2 million 2014: less than $0.2 million by parties other than the Group but where the Group is connected with the contracting party and therefore may be involved in appointing KPMG.
These fees arise from services such as the audit of the Groups pension schemes.
Fees payable to KPMG for non-audit services for Standard Chartered PLC are not separately disclosed because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for the Group.
Depreciation and amortisation 2015 2014 $million $million Property, plant and equipment: Premises 91 105 Equipment 88 95 Operating lease assets 258 234 437 434 Intangibles: Software 205 165 Acquired on business combinations 22 40 664 639 10.
Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions The following table reconciles the charge for impairment provisions on loans and advances to the total impairment charge and other credit risk provision: 2015 2014 $million $million Net charge against profit on loans and advances: Individual impairment charge 4,820 2,096 Portfolio impairment release charge 4 38 4,816 2,134 Impairment charges related to credit commitments 94 6 Impairment charges relating to debt securities classified as loans and receivables 66 1 Total impairment losses and other credit risk provisions on loans and advances 4,976 2,141 An analysis of impairment provisions on loans and advances by geography and client segment is set out within the Risk and capital review on pages 179 and 181.
261 Notes to the financial statements 11.
Other impairment 2015 2014 $million $million Impairment of goodwill see note 25 488 758 Impairment of fixed assets see note 26 149 Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets: Debt securities 5 109 Equity shares 142 47 147 156 Impairment of investment in associates see note 23 46 97 Impairment of acquired intangible assets see note 25 1 8 Impairment of commodity assets 139 Other 42 9 873 1,167 1 Recovery of impairment on disposal of instruments 18 6 855 1,161 1.
Relates to private equity instruments sold during the year that had impairment provisions raised against them in prior years 12.
Taxation Determining the Groups taxation charge for the year involves a degree of estimation and judgement.
The following table provides analysis of taxation charge in the year: 2015 2014 $million $million The charge for taxation based upon the loss profit for the year comprises: Current tax: United Kingdom corporation tax at 20.25 per cent 2014: 21.5 per cent : Current tax credit charge on income for the year 15 169 Adjustments in respect of prior years including double taxation relief 57 130 Double taxation relief 4 8 Foreign tax: Current tax charge on income for the year 1,084 1,460 Adjustments in respect of prior years 49 29 1,171 1,462 Deferred tax: Origination reversal of temporary differences 526 15 Adjustments in respect of prior years 28 83 498 68 Tax on loss profit on ordinary activities 673 1,530 1 Effective tax rate nm 36.1% 1.
Not meaningful The UK corporation tax rate was reduced from 21 per cent to 20 per cent with an effective date of 1 April 2015, giving a blended 20.25 per cent for the year.
Further reductions in the UK corporation tax rate to 19 per cent with an effective date of 1 April 2017 and to 18 per cent with an effective date of 1 April 2020 have been enacted at the balance sheet date.
The rate reduction to 18 per cent did not have a significant impact on the Group.
Foreign taxation includes current taxation on Hong Kong profits of $131 million 31 December 2014: $207 million on the profits assessable in Hong Kong.
Deferred taxation includes origination reversal of temporary differences in Hong Kong profits of $ 12 million 2014: $4 million provided at a rate of 16.5 per cent 2014: 16.5 per cent on the profits assessable to Hong Kong.
The tax charge for the year of $673 million 2014: $1,530 million on a loss before taxation of $1,523 million 2014: profit before taxation of $4,235 million reflected the impact of deferred tax assets not recognised and non-deductible goodwill impairment.
262 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 12.
Taxation continued The taxation charge for the year is higher than the charge at the blended rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom, 20.25 per cent.
The differences are explained below: 2015 2014 $million $million Loss profit on ordinary activities before taxation 1,523 4,235 Tax at 20.25 per cent 2014: 21.5 per cent 308 911 Effects of: Tax free income 187 254 Lower tax rates on overseas earnings 42 146 Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 230 492 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 134 76 Goodwill impairment 99 163 Deferred tax not recognised 314 Non-deductible expenses 326 525 Other items 107 85 Tax on loss profit on ordinary activities 673 1,530 2015 2014 Current tax Deferred tax Total Current tax Deferred tax Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Tax recognised in other comprehensive income Available-for-sale assets 2 58 60 16 50 66 Cash flow hedges 25 25 31 31 Retirement benefit obligations 10 10 13 13 2 23 25 16 6 22 Other tax recognised in equity Share-based payments 6 6 1 2 1 Total tax credit charge recognised in equity 2 17 19 15 8 23 13.
Dividends 2015 2014 Pre-rights Pre-rights Ordinary equity shares cents per share $million cents per share $million 2014 2013 final dividend declared and paid during the year 57.20 1,412 57.20 1,385 2015 2014 interim dividend declared and paid during the year 14.40 366 28.80 710 1,778 2,095 The amounts in the table above reflect the actual dividend per share declared and paid to shareholders in 2015 and 2014.
Dividends on ordinary equity shares are recorded in the period in which they are declared and, in respect of the final dividend, have been approved by the shareholders.
Accordingly, the final ordinary equity share dividends set out above relate to the respective prior years.
The 2014 final dividend of 57.20 cents per ordinary share $1,412 million was paid to eligible shareholders on 14 May 2015 and the interim dividend of 14.40 cents per ordinary share $366 million was paid to eligible shareholders on 19 October 2015.
On 3 November 2015, the Board announced that no final dividend will be paid for 2015 financial year in light of the Strategic Review and the rights issue.
Accordingly, the total dividend for 2015 is 14.40 cents per share on a pre-rights basis 2014: 86 cents per share, on a pre-rights basis.
263 Notes to the financial statements 13.
Dividends continued Impact of the 2015 rights issue On 3 November 2015, the Company announced the issue of 728,432,451 new ordinary shares by way of rights to qualifying shareholders at 465 pence per new ordinary share.
The issue was on the basis of two ordinary shares for every seven ordinary shares held on 18 November 2015.
The dividend per share amounts in the table below have been adjusted for the bonus element included within the 2015 rights issue in line with the restatement of prior period earnings per share amounts required by IAS 33 Earnings per share see note 14.
2015 2014 Post-rights Post-rights cents per share cents per share 2014 2013 final dividend declared and paid during the year 54.44 54.44 2015 2014 interim dividend declared and paid during the year 13.71 27.41 Total dividend recommended and declared relating to 2015 on a post-rights basis is 13.71 cents per share 2014: 81.85 cents per share.
2015 2014 Preference shares $million $million 3 1 Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares: 7 per cent preference shares of 1 each 11 12 8 1 1 8 4 per cent preference shares of 1 each 13 13 2 Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares: 7.014 per cent preference shares of $5 each 53 53 2 6.409 per cent preference shares of $5 each 48 48 1.
Dividends on these preference shares are treated as interest expense and accrued accordingly 2.
Dividends on these preference shares classified as equity are recorded in the period in which they are declared 2015 2014 Additional Tier 1 securities $million $million 3 $2 billion fixed rate resetting perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities 65 3.
Dividends on these securities classified as equity are recorded in the period in which they are declared 14.
Earnings per ordinary share 2015 2014 Weighted Weighted average average number of Per share number of Per share 1 1 Loss shares amount Profit shares amount $million 000 cents $million 000 cents Basic loss earnings per ordinary share 2,360 2,568,098 91.9 2,512 2,458,662 102.2 Pre-rights issue bonus earnings per ordinary share 2 Impact of rights issue 123,740 Post-rights issue basic loss earnings per ordinary share 2,360 2,568,098 91.9 2,512 2,582,402 97.3 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: 3 2 Options 15,250 Diluted loss earnings per ordinary share 2,360 2,568,098 91.9 2,512 2,597,652 96.7 1.
The loss profit amounts represent the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders, which is loss profit for the year after non-controlling interest and the declaration of dividends payable to the holders of the non-cumulative redeemable preference shares and Additional Tier 1 securities classified as equity see note 13 2.
On 3 November 2015, the Company announced the issue of 728,432,451 new ordinary shares by way of rights to qualifying shareholders at 465 pence per share.
The issue was made as two shares for every seven shares held on 18 November 2015.
As required by IAS 33 Earnings per share the impact of the bonus element included within the rights issue has been included in the calculations of the basic and diluted earnings per share for the year and prior year and their normalised equivalent has been represented accordingly as presented in note 44 3.
The impact of anti-dilutive options has been excluded from this amount as required by IAS 33 Earnings per share There were no ordinary shares issued after the balance sheet date that would have significantly affected the number of ordinary shares used in the above calculation had they been issued prior to the end of the balance sheet date.
264 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 14.
Earnings per ordinary share continued The Group measures earnings per share on a normalised basis.
This differs from earnings defined in IAS 33 Earnings per share.
The table below provides a reconciliation.
2015 2014 $million $million Operating income as reported 15,289 18,334 Items normalised: Fair value movements on own credit adjustment 495 100 Credit and funding valuation methodology adjustment 863 Gain on disposal of property 10 49 Net gain arising on sale of business 222 13 Fair value loss on business classified as held for sale 4 15 140 147 Normalised operating income 15,429 18,187 Operating expenses as reported 11,173 11,045 Items normalised: 1 Restructuring costs 695 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 22 40 2 Civil monetary penalty 300 717 340 Normalised operating expenses 10,456 10,705 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other impairment as reported 5,831 3,302 Items normalised: 1 Impairment on loans and advances and other credit provisions 968 1 Impairment of associates 46 97 1 Impairment of fixed assets 10 Impairment of acquired intangibles 1 8 1 Impairment of goodwill 488 758 1,513 863 Normalised impairment provisions 4,318 2,439 Taxation as reported 673 1,530 3 Tax on normalised items 179 20 Normalised taxation 852 1,510 4 Loss profit as reported 2,360 2,512 Items normalised as above: Operating income 140 147 Operating expenses 717 340 Other impairment 1,513 863 Taxation 179 20 2,191 1,076 Normalised loss profit 169 3,588 2 Normalised basic loss earnings per ordinary share cents 6.6 138.9 2 Normalised diluted loss earnings per ordinary share cents 6.6 138.1 1.
Includes charges relating to restructuring actions 2.
In August 2014, Standard Chartered reached a settlement with the New York Department of Financial Services NYDFS regarding deficiencies in its anti-money laundering transaction surveillance system at the New York branch.
There is no tax relief for this settlement 3.
No tax is included in respect of the impairment of goodwill as no tax relief is available 4.
The loss profit amounts represent the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders, which is loss profit for the year after non-controlling interest and the declaration of dividends payable to the holders of the non-cumulative redeemable preference shares and Additional Tier 1 securities classified as equity see note 13 265 Notes to the financial statements 15.
Financial instruments Classification The accounting policies in note 1 describe how different classes of financial instruments are measured, and how income and expenses, including fair value gains and losses, are recognised.
The Groups classification of its financial assets and liabilities is summarised in the following tables.
Assets at fair value Assets at amortised cost Designated at fair value Derivatives through Nonheld for profit or AvailableLoans and Held-tofinancial Trading hedging loss for-sale receivables maturity assets Total Assets Notes $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 65,312 65,312 Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 1 Loans and advances to banks 1,942 333 2,275 1 Loans and advances to customers 3,008 1,039 4,047 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 16 859 859 Debt securities 16 12,896 389 13,285 Equity shares 16 2,237 698 2,935 20,942 2,459 23,401 Derivative financial instruments 17 61,812 1,331 63,143 1 Loans and advances to banks 18 64,494 64,494 1 Loans and advances to customers 19 257,356 257,356 Investment securities Treasury bills and other eligible bills 21 32,453 32,453 Debt securities 21 77,684 2,700 210 80,594 Equity shares 21 1,720 1,720 111,857 2,700 210 114,767 Other assets 22 32,408 2,193 34,601 Total as at 31 December 2015 82,754 1,331 2,459 111,857 422,270 210 2,193 623,074 Cash and balances at central banks 97,282 97,282 Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 1 Loans and advances to banks 3,368 242 3,610 1 Loans and advances to customers 2,833 1,071 3,904 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 16 1,720 92 1,812 Debt securities 16 17,735 17,735 Equity shares 16 4,556 1,006 5,562 30,212 2,411 32,623 Derivative financial instruments 17 64,111 1,723 65,834 1 Loans and advances to banks 18 83,890 83,890 1 Loans and advances to customers 19 284,695 284,695 Investment securities Treasury bills and other eligible bills 21 24,073 16 24,089 Debt securities 21 74,937 2,883 122 77,942 Equity shares 21 2,207 2,207 101,217 2,883 138 104,238 Other assets 22 30,754 7,935 38,689 Total as at 31 December 2014 94,323 1,723 2,411 101,217 499,504 138 7,935 707,251 1.
Further analysed in Risk and capital review on pages 162 to 181 266 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 15.
Financial instruments continued Liabilities at fair value Designated at fair value Derivatives through Nonheld for profit or Amortised financial Trading hedging loss cost liabilities Total Liabilities Notes $million $million $million $million $million $million Financial liabilities held at fair value through profitorloss Deposits by banks 637 637 Customer accounts 8,494 8,494 Debt securities in issue 8,917 8,917 Short positions 2,824 2,824 2,824 18,048 20,872 Derivative financial instruments 17 59,390 2,549 61,939 Deposits by banks 37,611 37,611 Customer accounts 350,633 350,633 Debt securities in issue 28 59,880 59,880 Other liabilities 29 31,525 486 32,011 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 30 21,852 21,852 Total as at 31 December 2015 62,214 2,549 18,048 501,501 486 584,798 Financial liabilities held at fair value through profitorloss Deposits by banks 932 932 Customer accounts 8,836 8,836 Debt securities in issue 8,837 8,837 Short positions 3,785 3,785 3,785 18,605 22,390 Derivative financial instruments 17 61,896 1,417 63,313 Deposits by banks 54,391 54,391 Customer accounts 405,353 405,353 Debt securities in issue 28 71,951 71,951 Other liabilities 29 30,086 1,151 31,237 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 30 22,947 22,947 Total as at 31 December 2014 65,681 1,417 18,605 584,728 1,151 671,582 Valuation of financial instruments All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date of recognition as described within the accounting policies in note 1.
Wherever possible, fair values have been calculated using unadjusted quoted market prices in active markets for identical instruments held by the Group.
Where quoted market prices are not available, or are unreliable because of poor liquidity, fair values have been determined using valuation techniques which, to the extent possible, use market observable inputs, but in some cases use non-market observable inputs.
Valuation techniques used include discounted cash flow analysis and pricing models and, where appropriate, comparison to instruments with characteristics similar to those of the instruments held by the Group.
Valuation Control framework The Valuation Control function is responsible for independent price verification, oversight of fair value adjustments and escalation of valuation issues.
Independent price verification is the process of determining the valuations incorporated into the financial statements are validated independent of the Business area responsible for the product.
The Valuation Control function has oversight of the fair value adjustments to ensure the financial instruments are priced to exit.
These are key controls in ensuring the material accuracy of the valuations incorporated in the financial statements.
In inactive markets, direct observation of a traded price may not be possible.
The market data used for price verification may include those sourced from recent trade data involving external counterparties or third parties such as Bloomberg, Reuters, brokers and consensus pricing providers.
Valuation Control performs a semi-annual review of the suitability of the market data used for price testing.
Price verification uses independently sourced data that is deemed most representative of the market the instruments trade in.
To determine the quality of the market data inputs, factors such as independence, relevance, reliability, availability of multiple data sources and methodology employed by the pricing provider are taken into consideration.
Formal committees for the business clusters, consisting of representatives from Group Market Risk, Product Control, Valuation Control and the Business meet monthly to discuss and approve the valuations of the inventory.
The business cluster valuation committees fall under the Valuation Benchmarks Committee VBC as part the of the valuation governance structure.
Valuation hierarchy Assets and liabilities carried at fair value or for which fair values are disclosed have been classified into three levels according to the observability of the significant inputs used to determine the fair values.
267 Notes to the financial statements 15.
Financial instruments continued Changes in the observability of significant valuation inputs during the reporting period may result in a transfer of assets and liabilities within the fair value hierarchy.
The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy when there is a significant change in either its principal market or the level of observability of the inputs to the valuation techniques as at the end of the reporting period.
Level 1 Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Level 2 valuations are those with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments valued using models where all significant inputs are observable.
Level 3 Level 3 portfolios are those where at least one input which could have a significant effect on the instruments valuation is not based on observable market data.
The following tables show the classification of financial instruments held at fair value into the valuation hierarchy as at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets $million $million $million $million Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss Loans and advances to banks 2,275 2,275 Loans and advances to customers 3,815 232 4,047 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 810 49 859 Debt securities 4,492 8,537 256 13,285 Of which: Government bonds 4,181 3,993 12 8,186 Issued by corporates other than financial institutions 21 2,555 141 2,717 Issued by financial institutions 290 1,989 103 2,382 Equity shares 2,122 813 2,935 Derivative financial instruments 736 61,929 478 63,143 Of which: Foreign exchange 67 46,901 291 47,259 Interest rate 1 11,735 9 11,745 Commodity 668 2,838 3,506 Credit 303 35 338 Equity and stock index 152 143 295 Investment securities Treasury bills and other eligible bills 28,978 3,393 82 32,453 Debt securities 34,868 42,559 257 77,684 Of which: Government bonds 20,435 10,356 53 30,844 Issued by corporates other than financial institutions 10,005 8,818 204 19,027 Issued by financial institutions 4,428 23,385 27,813 Equity shares 872 7 841 1,720 Total as at 31 December 2015 72,878 122,564 2,959 198,401 Liabilities Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss Deposits by banks 637 637 Customer accounts 8,493 1 8,494 Debt securities in issue 8,422 495 8,917 Short positions 1,222 1,602 2,824 Derivative financial instruments 695 60,925 319 61,939 Of which: Foreign exchange 86 47,681 246 48,013 Interest rate 11,913 38 11,951 Commodity 609 818 1,427 Credit 300 14 314 Equity and stock index 213 21 234 Total as at 31 December 2015 1,917 80,079 815 82,811 There have been no significant changes to valuation or levelling approaches in 2015.
There are no significant transfers of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.
268 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 15.
Financial instruments continued Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets $million $million $million $million Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss Loans and advances to banks 3,610 3,610 Loans and advances to customers 3,264 640 3,904 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 1,578 234 1,812 Debt securities 8,466 8,874 395 17,735 Of which: Government bonds 8,158 1,519 9,677 Issued by corporates other than financial institutions 84 2,861 187 3,132 Issued by financial institutions 224 4,494 208 4,926 Equity shares 4,754 808 5,562 Derivative financial instruments 759 64,500 575 65,834 Of which: Foreign exchange 40 43,665 379 44,084 Interest rate 15,157 47 15,204 Commodity 719 4,983 5,702 Credit 420 20 440 Equity and stock index 275 129 404 Investment securities Treasury bills and other eligible bills 20,895 3,178 24,073 Debt securities 30,696 43,881 360 74,937 Of which: Government bonds 16,321 6,053 66 22,440 Issued by corporates other than financial institutions 9,790 9,713 289 19,792 Issued by financial institutions 4,585 28,115 5 32,705 Equity shares 1,248 6 953 2,207 Total as at 31 December 2014 68,396 127,547 3,731 199,674 Liabilities Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss Deposits by banks 932 932 Customer accounts 8,835 1 8,836 Debt securities in issue 8,629 208 8,837 Short positions 3,267 518 3,785 Derivative financial instruments 863 62,154 296 63,313 Of which: Foreign exchange 102 44,814 240 45,156 Interest rate 13,677 16 13,693 Commodity 761 2,161 2,922 Credit 955 10 965 Equity and stock index 547 30 577 Total as at 31 December 2014 4,130 81,068 505 85,703 There are no significant transfers of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.
There have been no significant changes to valuation or levelling approaches in 2014.
Valuation techniques Loans and advances These include loans in the global syndications underwriting book which are not syndicated yet.
These loans are generally bilateral in nature and their valuation is primarily based on recent trades or proxies, i. e. comparable loans with similar credit grade or sector.
Products are classified as Level 2 in cases where observable credit spreads applicable to those products are available.
Where there are no recent transactions and reliable comparable loans to proxy from, the valuation of these loans is based on unobservable inputs resulting in them being classified as Level 3.
Debt securities asset backed securities Due to the lack of liquidity in the market and the prolonged period of time under which many securities have not traded, relying on external prices only is not a strong enough measure to determine whether an asset has an observable price or not.
Therefore, once external pricing has been verified, an assessment is made whether each security is traded with significant liquidity based on its credit rating and sector.
If a security is of high credit rating and is traded in a liquid sector, it will be classified as Level 2: otherwise it will be classified as Level 3.
Where third-party pricing is not available, the valuation of the security will be estimated from market standard cash flow models with input parameter assumptions, which include prepayment speeds, default rates, discount margins derived from comparable securities with similar vintage, collateral type, and credit ratings.
These securities are also classified as Level 3.
269 Notes to the financial statements 15.
Financial instruments continued Other debt securities These debt securities include convertible bonds, corporate bonds, credit and structured notes.
Where quoted prices are available through pricing vendors, brokers or observable trading activities from liquid markets, these are classified as Level 2 and valued using such quotes.
Where there are significant valuation inputs which are unobservable in the market, due to illiquid trading or the complexity of the product, these are classified as Level 3.
The valuation of these debt securities is implied using input parameters such as bond spreads and credit spreads.
These input parameters are determined with reference to the same issuer if available or proxied from comparable issuers or assets.
Equity shares Private Equity The majority of private equity unlisted investments are valued based on earning multiples Price-to-Earnings P E or Enterprise Value to Earning before Income Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation EV EBITDA ratios of comparable listed companies.
The two primary inputs for the valuation of these investments are the actual or forecast earnings of the investee companies and earning multiples for the comparable listed companies.
In circumstances where an investment does not have direct comparables or where the multiples for the comparable companies cannot be sourced from reliable external sources, alternate valuation techniques for example, discounted cash flow models, which use predominantly unobservable inputs or Level 3 inputs, may be applied.
Even though earning multiples for the comparable listed companies can be sourced from third-party sources for example, Bloomberg, and those inputs can be deemed Level 2 inputs, all unlisted investments excluding those where observable inputs are available, for example, OTC prices are classified as Level 3 on the basis that the valuation methods involve judgements ranging from determining comparable companies to discount rates where the discounted cash flow method is applied.
Derivatives Derivative products are classified as Level 2 if the valuation of the product is based upon input parameters which are observable from independent and reliable market data sources.
Derivative products are classified as Level 3 if there are significant valuation input parameters which are unobservable in the market, such as products where the performance is linked to more than one underlying variable.
Examples are foreign exchange basket options, equity options based on the performance of two or more underlying indices and interest rate products with quanto payouts.
These unobservable correlation parameters could only be implied from the market, through methods such as historical analysis and comparison to historical levels or benchmark data.
Debt securities in issue These debt securities relate to structured notes issued by the Group.
Where independent market data is available through pricing vendors and broker sources these positions are classified as Level 2.
Where such liquid external prices are not available, valuation of these debt securities are implied using input parameters such as bond spreads and credit spreads, and are classified as Level 3.
Fair value adjustments When establishing the exit price of a financial instrument using a valuation technique, the Group considers adjustments to the modelled price which market participants would make when pricing that instrument.
In total, the Group has made $1,435 million 2014: $432 million of valuation adjustments in determining fair value for financial assets and financial liabilities.
The main adjustments are described below: 2015 2014 Valuation adjustments $million $million Bid-offer 72 66 1 Credit 815 160 Model 13 14 Funding valuation adjustment 366 111 Others including Day 1 169 81 Total 1,435 432 1.
Includes own debit valuation adjustments on derivatives Bid-offer valuation adjustments Where market parameters are marked on a mid-market basis in the revaluation systems, a bid-offer valuation adjustment is required to quantify the expected cost of neutralising the Business positions through dealing away in the market, thereby bringing long positions to bid and short positions to offer.
The methodology to calculate the bid-offer adjustment for a derivative portfolio involves netting between long and short positions and the grouping of risk by strike and tenor based on the hedging strategy where long positions are marked to bid and short positions marked to offer in the systems.
Credit valuation adjustments The Group makes a credit valuation adjustment CVA against the fair value of derivative products.
CVA is an adjustment to the fair value of the transactions to reflect the possibility that our counterparties may default and we may not receive the full market value of the outstanding transactions.
It represents an estimate of the adjustment a market participant would include when deriving a purchase price to acquire our exposures.
CVA is calculated for each subsidiary, and within each entity for each counterparty to which the entity has exposure and takes account of any collateral we may hold.
The Group calculates the CVA by applying the probability of default PD on the potential estimated future positive exposure of the counterparty using market-implied PD.
Where market-implied data is not readily available, we use market based proxies to estimate the PD.
The methodologies do not, in general, account for wrong-way risk.
Wrong-way risk arises when the underlying value of the derivative prior to any CVA is positively correlated to the probability of default by the counterparty.
The Group continues to include wrong-way risk in its Prudential Valuation Adjustments.
The CVA calculation was previously based on an expected counterparty loss calculation using historical default probabilities.
As at 31 December 2015, the calculation was revised to use market-implied PD.
The change in estimate reduced net trading income by $712 million.
270 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 15.
Financial instruments continued Own credit adjustments The Group calculates own credit adjustments to reflect changes in its own credit standing.
The Groups own credit adjustments are calculated on its derivative liabilities and issued debt designated at fair value, including structured notes.
The Groups own credit adjustments will increase if its credit standing worsens and, conversely, decrease if its credit standing improves.
The Groups own credit adjustments will reverse over time as its liabilities mature.
For derivative liabilities, an own credit adjustment is determined by applying the Groups probability of default to the Groups negative expected exposure against the counterparty.
The Groups probability of default and loss expected in the event of default is derived based on internally assessed credit ratings and market standard recovery levels.
The expected exposure is modelled based on simulation methodology and is generated through simulation of underlying risk factors over the life of the deal booked against the particular counterparty.
This simulation methodology incorporates the collateral posted by the Group and the effects of master netting agreements.
The methodology used to determine an own credit adjustment on derivative liabilities is consistent with the methodology used to determine credit valuation adjustment CVA on derivative assets.
For issued debt and structured notes designated at fair value, an own credit adjustment is determined by discounting the contractual cash flows using a yield curve adjusted for market observed secondary senior debt issuance spreads above average interbank rates.
Model valuation adjustments Valuation models may have pricing deficiencies or limitations that require a valuation adjustment.
These pricing deficiencies or limitations arise due to the choice, implementation and calibration of the pricing model.
Funding valuation adjustment The Group makes a funding valuation adjustment FVA against derivative products.
FVA reflects an estimate of the adjustment to its fair value that a market participant would make to incorporate funding costs that could arise in relation to the exposure.
FVA is calculated by determining the net expected exposure at a counterparty level and then applying a funding rate to those exposures that reflect the market cost of funding.
The FVA for collateralised derivatives is based on discounting the expected future cash flows at the relevant overnight indexed swap OIS rate after taking into consideration the terms of the underlying collateral agreement with the counterparty.
The FVA for uncollateralised including partially collateralised derivatives incorporates the estimated present value of the market funding cost or benefit associated with funding these transactions.
The FVA calculation was previously based on the Banks internal funding rates.
As at 31 December 2015, the calculation was revised to use market based rates.
The change in estimate reduced net trading income by $151 million.
Day one profit and loss A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value, which is generally its transaction price.
In cases where the value obtained from the relevant valuation model differs from the transaction price, we record the asset or liability based on our valuation model, but do not recognise that initial difference in profit and loss unless the inputs to the valuation model are observable.
271 Notes to the financial statements 15.
Financial instruments continued Level 3 movement tables financial assets The table below analyses movements in Level 3 financial assets carried at fair value.
Held at fair value through profit or loss Investment securities Loans and Derivative advances to Treasury Debt Equity financial Treasury Debt Equity customers bills securities shares instruments bills securities shares Total Assets $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million As at 1 January 2015 640 395 808 575 360 953 3,731 Total losses gains recognised in income statement 441 5 75 22 17 24 530 Net trading income 441 5 75 22 19 470 Other operating income 30 30 Impairment charge 17 73 90 Total losses recognised in other comprehensiveincome 4 1 49 20 74 Available-for-sale reserve 29 15 44 Exchange difference 4 1 20 5 30 Purchases 3 80 375 101 44 398 1,001 Sales 161 357 72 116 304 1,010 Settlements 25 81 22 52 180 Transfers out 185 78 78 123 162 626 Transfers in 30 147 62 15 139 254 647 As at 31 December 2015 232 256 813 478 82 257 841 2,959 Total losses gains recognised in the income statement, within net trading income, relating tochange in fair value of assets held as at 31December 2015 430 6 66 33 17 1 473 Transfers out during the year primarily relate to certain equity loans and advances and corporate debt securities where the valuation parameters became observable during the year and were transferred to Level 1 and Level 2 financial assets.
Transfers in during the year primarily relate to investment in structured notes, corporate debt securities and loans and advances where the valuation parameters become unobservable during the year.
Held at fair value through profit or loss Investment securities Loans and Derivative advances to Debt Equity financial Treasury Debt Equity customers securities shares instruments bills securities shares Total Assets $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million As at 1 January 2014 720 159 904 598 19 608 1,456 4,464 Total losses gains recognised in income statement 181 7 107 12 10 191 112 Net trading income 181 7 107 12 293 Other operating income 207 207 Other impairment charge 10 16 26 Total losses recognised in other comprehensive income 66 144 210 Available-for-sale reserve 40 138 178 Exchange difference 26 6 32 Purchases 192 273 444 92 17 314 1,332 Sales 231 38 241 6 83 880 1,479 Settlements 61 19 107 34 221 Transfers out 6 3 192 3 19 127 350 Transfers in 207 16 13 55 16 307 As at 31 December 2014 640 395 808 575 360 953 3,731 Total losses gains recognised in the income statement, within net trading income, relating tochange in fair value of assets held as at 31December 2014 154 5 54 29 37 16 119 Transfers out during the year primarily relate to certain equity loans and advances and corporate debt securities where the valuation parameters became observable during the year and were transferred to Level 1 and Level 2 financial assets.
Transfers in during the year primarily relate to investment in structured notes, corporate debt securities and loans and advances where the valuation parameters become unobservable during the years.
272 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 15.
Financial instruments continued Level 3 movement tables financial liabilities Debt Derivative Customer securities financial accounts in issue instruments Total Liabilities $million $million $million $million As at 1 January 2015 1 208 296 505 Total losses recognised in income statement 11 6 17 Net trading income 11 6 17 Issues 310 40 350 Settlements 176 26 202 Transfers out 3 3 Transfers in 142 6 148 As at 31 December 2015 1 495 319 815 Total losses recognised in the income statement, within net trading income, relating to change in fair value of liabilities held as at 31 December 2015 16 16 As at 1 January 2014 8 39 441 488 Total losses gains recognised in income statement 3 18 15 Net trading income 3 18 15 Issues 159 27 186 Settlements 7 24 152 183 Transfers in 31 2 29 As at 31 December 2014 1 208 296 505 Total losses recognised in the income statement, within net trading income, relating to change in fair value of liabilities held as at 31 December 2014 29 29 Transfers out during the year primarily relate to certain financial instruments where the valuation parameters became observable during the year and were transferred to Level 2 financial liabilities.
Transfers in during the year primarily relate to certain financial instruments for which parameters became unobservable during the year.
The following table presents the Groups primary Level 3 financial instruments, which are held at fair value.
The table also presents the valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of those financial instruments, the significant unobservable inputs, the range of values for those inputs and the weighted average of those inputs: Value as at 31 December 2015 Assets Liabilities Principal Significant Weighted 1 2 Instrument $million $million valuation technique unobservable inputs Range average Loans and advances 232 1 Comparable pricing yield Price yield 17.2% to 27.5% 24.0% tocustomers Recovery rates 8.0% to 74.0% 35.1% 2 Debt securities 427 Comparable pricing yield Price yield 4.5% to 10.0% 6.5% Asset backed securities 21 Discounted cash flows Price yield 1.5% to 2.1% 1.7% Debt securities in issue 495 Internal pricing model Equity correlation -35.0% to 98.0% N A Discounted cash flows Credit spreads 0.7% to 4.0% 3.4% Government bonds 147 Discounted cash flows Price yield 2.4% to 7.0% 5.1% Comparable pricing yield Price yield 91.6% to 101.1% 96.6 Derivative financial instruments of which: Foreign exchange 291 246 Option pricing model Foreign exchange option 5.1% to 8.6% 7.0% implied volatility Interest rate 9 38 Discounted cash flows Interest rate curves 0.3% to 10.7% 4.6% Spread option model Interest rate correlation 97.9% to 98.3% 98.1% Credit 35 14 Discounted cash flows Credit spreads 0.1% to 4.0% 1.9% Equity 143 21 Internal pricing model Equity correlation -35.0% to 98.0% N A Equity shares 1,654 Comparable pricing yield EV EBITDA multiples 7.8x to 13.7x 10.1x includes private equity P E multiples 13.9x to 19.5x 16.3x investments Liquidity discount 10.0% to 20.0% 14.2% Discounted cash flows Discount rates 10.6% to 29.3% 13.0% Total 2,959 815 1.
The ranges of values shown in the above table represent the highest and lowest levels used in the valuation of the Groups Level 3 financial instruments as at 31 December 2015.
The ranges of values used are reflective of the underlying characteristics of these Level 3 financial instruments based on the market conditions at the balance sheet date.
However, these ranges of values may not represent the uncertainty in fair value measurements of the Groups Level 3 financial instruments 2.
Weighted average for non-derivative financial instruments have been calculated by weighting inputs by the relative fair value.
Weighted average for derivatives has been provided by weighting inputs by the risk relevant to that variable.
N A has been entered for the cases where weighted average is not a meaningful indicator 273 Notes to the financial statements 15.
Financial instruments continued The following section describes the significant unobservable inputs identified in the valuation technique table.
Credit spreads Credit spreads represent the additional yield that a market participant would demand for taking exposure to the credit risk of an instrument.
Recovery rates Recovery rate is the expectation of the rate of return resulting from the liquidation of a particular loan.
As the probability of default increases for a given instrument, the valuation of that instrument will increasingly reflect its expected recovery level assuming default.
An increase in the recovery rate, in isolation, would result in a favourable movement in the fair value of the loan.
Comparable price yield Comparable pricing is a valuation methodology in which a price of a comparable instrument is used to estimate the fair value where there are no direct observable prices.
Yield is the interest rate that is used to discount the future cash flows in a discounted cash flow model.
Valuation using comparable instruments can be done by calculating an implied yield or spread over a liquid benchmark from the price of a comparable instrument, then adjusting that yield or spread to derive a value for the instrument.
The adjustment should account for relevant differences in the financial instruments such as maturity and or credit quality.
Alternatively, a price-to-price basis can be assumed between the comparable instrument and the instrument being valued in order to establish the value of the instrument e. g. deriving a fair value for a junior unsecured bond from the price of a senior secured bond.
An increase in price, in isolation, would result in a favourable movement in the fair value of the asset.
An increase in yield, in isolation, would result in an unfavourable movement in the fair value of the asset.
Correlation Correlation is the measure of how movement in one variable influences the movement in another variable.
An equity correlation is the correlation between two equity instruments while an interest rate correlation refers to the correlation between two swap rates.
Volatility Volatility represents an estimate of how much a particular instrument, parameter or index will change in value over time.
Generally, the higher the volatility, the more expensive the option will be.
Interest rate curves Interest rate curve is the term structure of interest rates and measure of future interest rates at a particular point of time.
EV EBITDA ratio multiples This is the ratio of enterprise value EV to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
EV is the aggregate market capitalisation and debt minus the cash and cash equivalents.
An increase in EV EBITDA multiple in isolation will result in a favourable movement in the fair value of the unlisted firm.
Price-Earnings P E multiples P E multiple is the ratio of the market capitalisation to the net income after tax.
The multiples are determined from multiples of listed comparables, which are observable.
An increase in P E multiple will result in a favourable movement in the fair value of the unlisted firm.
Liquidity discounts in the valuation of unlisted investments A liquidity discount is primarily applied to the valuation of unlisted firms investments to reflect the fact that these stocks are not actively traded.
An increase in liquidity discount will result in unfavourable movement in the fair value of the unlisted firm.
274 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 15.
Financial instruments continued Sensitivities in respect of the fair values of Level 3 assets and liabilities Sensitivity analysis is performed on products with significant unobservable inputs.
We apply a 10 per cent increase or decrease on the values of these unobservable, reasonably possible alternatives that could have increased fair values of financial instruments inputs, in order to generate a range of reasonably possible alternative valuations.
The percentage shift is determined by statistical analyses performed on a set of reference prices based on the composition of our Level 3 assets.
Favourable and unfavourable changes are determined on the basis of changes in the value of the instrument as a result of varying the levels of the unobservable parameters.
This Level 3 sensitivity analysis assumes a one way market move and does not consider offsets for hedges.
Held at fair value through profit or loss Available-for-sale Favourable Unfavourable Favourable Unfavourable Net exposure changes changes Net exposure changes changes $million $million $million $million $million $million Financial instruments held at fair value Debt securities 256 261 251 257 266 247 Equity shares 813 895 731 841 937 745 Loans and advances 231 259 217 Treasury bills 82 83 81 Derivative financial instruments 159 423 106 Debt securities in issue 495 482 508 As at 31 December 2015 964 1,356 585 1,180 1,286 1,073 Financial instruments held at fair value Debt securities 395 404 385 360 386 337 Equity shares 808 889 727 953 1,048 858 Loans and advances 639 661 620 Treasury bills Derivative financial instruments 279 334 222 Debt securities in issue 208 202 214 As at 31 December 2014 1,913 2,086 1,740 1,313 1,434 1,195 The reasonably possible alternatives could have increased or decreased the fair values of financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss and those classified as available-for-sale by the amounts disclosed below.
2015 2014 Financial instruments Fair value changes $million $million Designated at fair value through profit or loss Possible increase 392 173 Possible decrease 379 173 Available-for-sale Possible increase 106 121 Possible decrease 107 118 Valuation of financial instruments measured at amortised cost on a recurring basis The following table shows the carrying amounts and incorporates the Groups estimate of fair values of those financial assets and liabilities not presented on the Groups balance sheet at fair value.
These fair values may be different from the actual amount that will be received paid on the settlement or maturity of the financial instrument.
For certain instruments, the fair value may be determined using assumptions for which no observable prices are available.
The carrying amount of these financial instruments is considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value as they are short term in nature or reprice to current market rates frequently 275 Notes to the financial statements 15.
The carrying amount of these financial instruments is considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value as they are short term in nature or reprice to current market rates frequently Analysis of loans and advances to customers by client segment 2015 Carrying value Fair value Impaired Not impaired Total Impaired Not impaired Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Corporate & Institutional Clients 5,156 131,177 136,333 5,204 131,565 136,769 Commercial Clients 498 10,609 11,107 503 9,859 10,362 Private Banking Clients 322 14,746 15,068 322 14,745 15,067 Retail Clients 493 94,355 94,848 506 94,177 94,683 As at 31 December 6,469 250,887 257,356 6,535 250,346 256,881 2014 Carrying value Fair value Impaired Not impaired Total Impaired Not impaired Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Corporate & Institutional Clients 3,238 150,828 154,066 3,246 150,434 153,680 Commercial Clients 545 14,106 14,651 545 14,085 14,630 Private Banking Clients 32 18,024 18,056 32 18,028 18,060 Retail Clients 388 97,534 97,922 391 97,087 97,478 As at 31 December 4,203 280,492 284,695 4,214 279,634 283,848 276 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 15.
As certain categories of financial instruments are not traded, there is a significant level of management judgement involved in calculating the fair values.
Cash and balances at central banks The fair value of cash and balances at central banks is their carrying amounts.
Loans and advances to banks and customers For loans and advances to banks, the fair value of floating rate placements and overnight deposits is their carrying amounts.
The estimated fair value of fixed interest-bearing deposits is based on discounted cash flows using the prevailing money market rates for debts with a similar credit risk and remaining maturity.
The Groups loans and advances to customers portfolio is well diversified by geography and industry.
Approximately a quarter of the portfolio reprices within one month, and approximately half reprices within 12 months.
Loans and advances are presented net of provisions for impairment.
The fair value of loans and advances to customers with a residual maturity of less than one year generally approximates the carrying value, subject to any significant movement in credit spreads.
The estimated fair value of loans and advances with a residual maturity of more than one year represents the discounted amount of future cash flows expected to be received, including assumptions relating to prepayment rates and, where appropriate, credit spreads.
Expected cash flows are discounted at current market rates to determine fair value.
The Group has a wide range of individual instruments within its loans and advances portfolio and as a result providing quantification of the key assumptions used to value such instruments is impractical.
Investment securities For investment securities that do not have directly observable market values, the Group utilises a number of valuation techniques to determine fair value.
Where available, securities are valued using inputs proxied from the same or closely related underlying for example, bond spreads from the same or closely related issuer or inputs proxied from a different underlying for example, a similar bond but using spreads for a particular sector and rating.
Certain instruments cannot be proxied as set out above, and in such cases the positions are valued using non-market observable inputs.
This includes those instruments held at amortised cost and predominantly relate to asset backed securities.
The fair value for such instruments is usually proxied from internal assessments of the underlying cash flows.
The Group has a wide range of individual investments within the unlisted debt securities portfolio.
Given the number of instruments involved, providing quantification of the key assumptions used to value such instruments is impractical, with no one assumption being material.
Deposits and borrowings The estimated fair value of deposits with no stated maturity is the amount repayable on demand.
The estimated fair value of fixed interest-bearing deposits and other borrowings without quoted market prices is based on discounted cash flows using the prevailing market rates for debts with a similar credit risk and remaining maturity.
Following the adoption of IFRS 13 the Group also adjusts the fair value of deposits and borrowings for own credit adjustment using the principles described above.
277 Notes to the financial statements 15.
Financial instruments continued Debt securities in issue, subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds The aggregate fair values are calculated based on quoted market prices.
For those notes where quoted market prices are not available, a discounted cash flow model is used based on a current market related yield curve appropriate for the remaining term to maturity.
Reclassification of financial assets In 2008, the Group reclassified certain non-derivative financial assets classified as held for trading into the available-for-sale AFS category as these were no longer considered to be held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term.
At the time of transfer, the Group identified the rare circumstances permitting such a transfer as the impact of the credit crisis in financial markets, particularly from the beginning of 2008, which significantly impacted the liquidity in certain markets.
The Group also reclassified certain eligible financial assets from trading and availablefor-sale categories to loans and receivables where the Group had the intent and ability to hold the reclassified assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
There have been no reclassifications since 2008.
The following tables provide details of the remaining balances of assets reclassified during 2008.
If assets had not been reclassified, fair value gains from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 Carrying Effective that would have been amount Fair value Income interest rate Estimated recognised within as at 31 as at 31 recognised at date of amounts of December December AFS in income reclassifiexpected 2015 2015 Income reserve statement cation cash flows For assets reclassified: $million $million $million $million $million % $million From trading to AFS 3 6.4 From trading to loans and receivables 35 36 1 3 5.3 39 From AFS to loans and receivables 88 84 3 11 5.6 120 123 120 1 3 17 Of which asset backed securities: reclassified to AFS 3 reclassified to loans and receivables 100 99 2 3 14 If assets had not been reclassified, fair value gains from 1 January 2014 to 31December 2014 Carrying Effective that would have been amount Fair value Income interest rate Estimated recognised within as at 31 as at 31 recognised at date of amounts of December December AFS in income reclassifiexpected 2014 2014 Income reserve statement cation cash flows For assets reclassified: $million $million $million % $million $million $million 1 From trading to AFS 38 38 2 1 8.7 54 From trading to loans and receivables 99 95 2 7 6.0 108 From AFS to loans and receivables 243 260 6 25 5.5 162 380 393 4 6 33 Of which asset backed securities: 1 reclassified to AFS 38 38 2 1 reclassified to loans and receivables 316 334 2 6 29 1.
, the gain is recognised within the available-for-sale reserve 278 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 15.
Financial instruments continued Repurchase transactions The Group enters into collateralised repurchase agreements repos and securities borrowing and lending transactions.
These transactions typically entitle the Group and its counterparties to have recourse to assets similar to those provided as collateral in the event of a default.
Securities sold subject to repos continue to be recognised on the balance sheet as the Group retains substantially the associated risk and rewards of the securities.
The counterparty liability is included in deposits by banks or customer accounts, as appropriate.
Assets sold under repurchase agreements are considered encumbered as the Group cannot pledge these to obtain funding.
The table below sets out the financial assets provided by the Group as collateral for repurchase transactions.
Fair value through AvailableLoans and profit and loss for-sale receivables Total Collateral pledged against repurchase agreements $million $million $million $million On-balance sheet Treasury bills and other eligible bills 98 98 Debt securities 487 520 1,007 Off-balance sheet Repledged collateral received 491 21,694 22,185 As at 31 December 2015 978 618 21,694 23,290 Balance sheet liabilities repurchase agreements Deposits by banks 7,598 Customer accounts 13,008 As at 31 December 2015 20,606 Fair value through AvailableLoans and profit and loss for-sale receivables Total Collateral pledged against repurchase agreements $million $million $million $million On-balance sheet Treasury bills and other eligible bills 342 90 432 Debt securities 1,375 1,787 3,162 Off-balance sheet Repledged collateral received 376 14,465 14,841 As at 31 December 2014 2,093 1,877 14,465 18,435 Balance sheet liabilities repurchase agreements Deposits by banks 9,984 Customer accounts 6,324 As at 31 December 2014 16,308 279 Notes to the financial statements 15.
Financial instruments continued Reverse repurchase agreements The Group also undertakes reverse repurchase reverse repo lending agreements with counterparties, typically financial institutions, in exchange for collateral.
Reverse repo agreements entitle the Group to have recourse to assets similar to those received as collateral in the event of a default.
In addition, the Group also obtains collateral on terms that permit the Group to repledge or resell the collateral to others.
The Group does not recognise the securities bought under reverse repos as collateral on its balance sheet as the Group is not substantially entitled to the risks and rewards associated with those assets and instead recognises the lending as loans and advances to banks or customers, as appropriate.
The Groups reverse repos as at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 are set out in the table below.
Balance sheet assets reverse repurchase agreements 2015 2014 $million $million Loans and advances to banks 17,330 18,435 Loans and advances to customers 15,307 11,421 32,637 29,856 Under reverse repurchase and securities borrowing arrangements, the Group obtains securities on terms which permit it to repledge or resell the securities to others.
Amounts on such terms are: 2015 2014 $million $million Securities and collateral received at fair value 53,357 33,742 Securities and collateral which can be repledged or sold at fair value 52,841 27,910 Thereof repledged transferred to others for financing activities, to satisfy commitments under short sale transactions or liabilities under sale and repurchase agreements at fair value 22,185 14,841 Securitisation transactions The Group has also entered into a number of securitisation transactions where the underlying loans and advances have been transferred to structured entities SEs that are fully consolidated by the Group.
As a result, the Group continues to recognise the assets on its balance sheet, together with the associated liability instruments issued by the SEs.
The holders of the liability instruments have recourse only to the assets transferred to the SEs.
The following table sets out the carrying value and fair value of the assets transferred and the carrying value and fair value of the associated liabilities as at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 respectively.
2015 2014 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value $million $million $million $million Loans and advances to customers 76 76 27 27 Securitisation liability 43 43 28 28 Net 33 33 1 1 The Group did not undertake any transactions that required the recognition of an asset representing continuing involvement in financial assets.
280 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 15.
Financial instruments continued Financial instruments subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Impact of offset in the balance sheet In accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, the Group is permitted to offset assets and liabilities and present these net on the Groups balance sheet, only if there is a legally enforceable right to set off and the Group intends to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and liability simultaneously.
Amounts not offset in the balance sheet In practice, the Group is able to offset assets and liabilities which do not meet the IAS 32 netting criteria set out above.
Such arrangements include master netting arrangements for derivatives and global master repurchase agreements for repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions.
These agreements generally allow that all outstanding transactions with a particular counterparty can be offset, but only in the event of default or other predetermined events.
In addition, the Group also receives and pledges readily realisable collateral for derivative transactions to cover net exposure in the event of a default.
Under repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements the Group pledges legally sell and obtains legally purchase respectively, highly liquid assets which can be sold in the event of a default.
The following tables set out the following: Impact of netting on the balance sheet.
This comprises derivative transactions settled through an enforceable netting agreement where we have the intent and ability to settle net and which are offset on the balance sheet.
Related amounts not offset in the balance sheet.
This comprises: Financial instruments not offset in the balance sheet, but covered by an enforceable netting arrangement.
This comprises master netting arrangements held against derivative financial instruments and excludes the effect of  Financial collateral.
This comprises cash collateral pledged and received for derivative financial instruments and collateral bought and sold for reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements respectively and excludes the effect of  2015 Net amounts Related amount not offset Gross amounts of financial in the balance sheet of recognised Impact of instruments financial offset in the presented in the Financial Financial instruments balance sheet balance sheet instruments collateral Net amount $million $million $million $million $million $million Assets Derivative financial instruments 69,872 6,729 63,143 38,934 10,074 14,135 Reverse repurchase agreements 32,637 32,637 32,637 As at 31 December 2015 102,509 6,729 95,780 38,934 42,711 14,135 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 68,668 6,729 61,939 38,934 13,430 9,575 Sale and repurchase liabilities 20,606 20,606 20,606 As at 31 December 2015 89,274 6,729 82,545 38,934 34,036 9,575 2014 Net amounts Related amount not offset Gross amounts of financial in the balance sheet of recognised Impact of instruments financial offset in the presented in the Financial Financial instruments balance sheet balance sheet instruments collateral Net amount $million $million $million $million $million $million Assets Derivative financial instruments 74,272 8,438 65,834 43,735 7,005 15,094 Reverse repurchase agreements 29,856 29,856 29,856 As at 31 December 2014 104,128 8,438 95,690 43,735 36,861 15,094 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 71,751 8,438 63,313 43,735 10,311 9,267 Sale and repurchase liabilities 16,308 16,308 16,308 As at 31 December 2014 88,059 8,438 79,621 43,735 26,619 9,267 281 Notes to the financial statements 16.
Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss Loans and advances held at fair value through profit or loss The maximum exposure to credit risk for loans designated at fair value through profit or loss was $1,372 million 2014: $1,313 million.
The net fair value gain on loans and advances to customers designated at fair value through profit or loss was $2 million 2014: $78 million.
Ofthis, $nil 2014: $nil relates to changes in credit risk.
The cumulative fair value movement relating to changes in credit risk was $3 million 2014:$3 million.
The changes in fair value attributable to credit risk has been determined by comparing fair value movements in risk-free bonds with similar maturities to the changes in fair value of loans designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Debt securities, equity shares and treasury bills held at fair value through profit or loss 2015 Debt Equity Treasury securities shares bills Total $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 8,091 Other public sector securities 88 8,179 Issued by banks: Certificates of deposit 87 Other debt securities 1,327 1,414 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 3,692 Total debt securities 13,285 Of which: Listed on a recognised UK exchange 116 116 Listed elsewhere 8,516 1,648 282 10,446 Unlisted 4,653 1,287 577 6,517 13,285 2,935 859 17,079 Market value of listed securities 8,632 1,648 282 10,562 2014 Debt Equity Treasury securities shares bills Total $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 9,677 Other public sector securities 141 9,818 Issued by banks: Certificates of deposit 2,975 Other debt securities 1,222 4,197 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 3,720 Total debt securities 17,735 Of which: Listed on a recognised UK exchange 126 71 197 Listed elsewhere 7,419 3,876 572 11,867 Unlisted 10,190 1,615 1,240 13,045 17,735 5,562 1,812 25,109 Market value of listed securities 7,545 3,948 572 12,065 Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss The net fair value gain on liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss was $104 million for the year 2014: net loss of $734 million.
Theamount includes $495 million 2014: $100 million relating to changes in credit risk.
The cumulative fair value movement relating to changes in credit risk was a gain of $691 million 2014: gain of $196 million.
The change in fair value attributable to credit risk was determined by comparing fair value movements in risk-free debt instruments with similar maturities to the changes in fair value of liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss.
282 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 17.
Derivative financial instruments The tables below analyse the notional principal amounts and the positive and negative fair values of the Groups derivative financial instruments.
Notional principal amounts are the amount of principal underlying the contract at the reporting date.
2015 2014 Notional Notional principal principal amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities Derivatives $million $million $million $million $million $million Foreign exchange derivative contracts: Forward foreign exchange contracts 1,846,097 20,379 20,013 1,611,476 19,265 20,649 Currency swaps and options 1,325,425 26,880 28,000 1,589,989 24,819 24,507 Exchange traded futures and options 454 300 3,171,976 47,259 48,013 3,201,765 44,084 45,156 Interest rate derivative contracts: Swaps 2,121,493 10,810 10,780 2,264,473 14,325 12,874 Forward rate agreements and options 72,776 935 1,171 186,796 879 819 Exchange traded futures and options 586,588 1,313,920 2,780,857 11,745 11,951 3,765,189 15,204 13,693 Credit derivative contracts 23,561 338 314 32,055 440 965 Equity and stock index options 9,384 295 234 16,585 404 577 Commodity derivative contracts 96,984 3,506 1,427 130,058 5,702 2,922 Total derivatives 6,082,762 63,143 61,939 7,145,652 65,834 63,313 The Group limits exposure to credit losses in the event of default by entering into master netting agreements with certain market counterparties.
As required by IAS 32, exposures are only presented net in these accounts where they are subject to legal right of offset and intended to be settled net in the ordinary course of business.
Details of the amounts available for offset are set out in note 15 on page 281.
The Derivatives and Hedging sections of the Risk and capital review on page 190 explain the Groups risk management of derivative contracts and application of hedging.
Derivatives held for hedging Hedge accounting is applied to derivatives and hedged items when the criteria under IAS 39 have been met.
The tables below list the types of derivatives that the Group holds for hedge accounting.
2015 2014 Notional Notional principal principal amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivatives designated as fair value hedges: Interest rate swaps 52,826 736 233 48,427 671 335 Forward foreign exchange contracts 5 12 1 Currency swaps 29,199 510 2,247 30,953 905 892 82,030 1,246 2,480 79,392 1,577 1,227 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges: Interest rate swaps 8,777 3 20 9,465 5 17 Forward foreign exchange contracts 1,589 3 46 2,375 4 75 Currency swaps 2,621 40 3 6,524 62 98 12,987 46 69 18,364 71 190 Derivatives designated as net investment hedges: Forward foreign exchange contracts 1,339 39 1,098 75 Total derivatives held for hedging 96,356 1,331 2,549 98,854 1,723 1,417 283 Notes to the financial statements 17.
Derivative financial instruments continued Fair value hedges The swaps exchange fixed rates for floating rates on funding to match floating rates received on assets, or exchange fixed rates on assets to match the floating rates paid on funding.
For qualifying hedges, the fair value changes of the derivative are substantially matched by corresponding fair value changes of the hedged item, both of which are recognised in profit and loss.
In respect of fair value hedges, net losses arising on the hedging instruments during the year were $192 million 2014: net gains of $1,272 million compared to net gains arising on the hedged items of $198 million 2014: net losses of $1,301 million.
Cash flow hedges The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage the variability in future cash flows on assets and liabilities that have floating rates of interest by exchanging the floating rates for fixed rates.
It also uses foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and options to manage the variability in future exchange rates on its assets and liabilities and costs in foreign currencies.
Gains and losses arising on the effective portion of the hedges are deferred in equity until the variability on the cash flow affects profit and loss, at which time the gains or losses are transferred to profit and loss.
2015 2014 $million $million Losses reclassified from reserves to income statement 107 13 Losses recognised in operating costs 118 13 Gain recognised in net income 11 The Group has hedged the following cash flows which are expected to impact the income statement in the following years: 2015 Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Over one year two years three years four years five years five years Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Forecast receivable cash flows 55 49 30 26 12 172 Forecast payable cash flows 1,504 10 5 1 1,520 1,449 39 25 25 12 1,348 2014 Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Over one year two years three years four years five years five years Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Forecast receivable cash flows 99 54 34 10 2 199 Forecast payable cash flows 1,654 22 11 4 1 1,692 1,555 32 23 6 1 1,493 Net investment hedges The Group uses a combination of foreign exchange contracts and non-derivative financial assets to manage the variability in future exchange rates on its net investments in foreign currencies.
Gains and losses arising on the effective portion of the hedges are deferred in equity until the net investment is disposed of.
During the year, $nil 2014: $nil was recognised in the income statement in respect of ineffectiveness arising on net investment hedges.
Loans and advances to banks 2015 2014 $million $million Loans and advances to banks 66,933 87,601 Individual impairment provision 163 99 Portfolio impairment provision 1 2 66,769 87,500 Of which: loans and advances held at fair value through profit or loss note 15 2,275 3,610 1 64,494 83,890 1.
Loans and advances to banks net of provision totalling $nil 2014: $260 million has been reclassified and disclosed as held for sale in note 22 Analysis of loans and advances to banks by geographic region as set out in the Risk and capital review on page 163.
284 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 19.
Loans and advances to customers 2015 2014 $million $million Loans and advances to customers 268,083 292,571 Individual impairment provision 6,023 3,276 Portfolio impairment provision 657 696 261,403 288,599 Of which: loans and advances held at fair value through profit or loss note 15 4,047 3,904 1 257,356 284,695 1.
Loans and advances to customers net of provision totalling $nil 2014: $2.7 billion has been reclassified and disclosed as held for sale in note 22 The Group has outstanding residential mortgage loans to Korea residents of $13.4 billion 2014: $12.9 billion and Hong Kong residents of $27.7 billion 2014: $25.5 billion.
Analysis of loans and advances to customers by geographic region and client segments and related impairment provisions as set out within the Risk and capital review on pages 163 to 181.
Assets leased to customers Finance leases and instalment credit 2015 2014 $million $million Finance leases 364 423 Instalment credit agreements 687 907 1,051 1,330 The above assets are included within loans and advances to customers.
The cost of assets acquired during the year for leasing to customers under finance leases and instalment credit agreements amounted to $269 million 2014: $444 million.
2015 2014 $million $million Minimum lease receivables under finance leases falling due: Within one year 50 167 Later than one year and less than five years 248 204 After five years 144 137 442 508 Interest income relating to future periods 78 85 Present value of finance lease receivables 364 423 Of which: Falls due within one year 37 156 Falls due later than one year and less than five years 220 167 Falls due after five years 107 100 Operating lease assets Assets leased to customers under operating leases consist of commercial aircraft and ships which are included within property, plant and equipment in note 26.
As at 31 December 2015 these assets had a net book value of $5,514 million 2014: $6,085 million.
2015 2014 $million $million Minimum lease receivables under operating leases falling due: Within one year 588 619 Later than one year and less than five years 2,042 1,874 After five years 1,427 2,111 4,057 4,604 285 Notes to the financial statements 21.
Investment securities 2015 Debt securities  and Equity Treasury maturity for-sale receivables shares bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 159 35,086 Other public sector securities 2,215 37 159 37,301 37 Issued by banks: Certificates of deposit 4,076 Other debt securities 22,110 15 26,186 15 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 51 14,197 2,648 Total debt securities 210 77,684 2,700 Of which: 1 Listed on a recognised UK exchange 15,992 120 8 2,057 18,177 1 Listed elsewhere 51 31,837 483 782 14,703 47,856 Unlisted 159 29,855 2,097 930 15,693 48,734 210 77,684 2,700 1,720 32,453 114,767 Market value of listed securities 51 47,829 603 790 16,760 66,033 2014 Debt securities  and Equity Treasury maturity for-sale receivables shares bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 62 28,296 Other public sector securities 926 10 62 29,222 10 Issued by banks: Certificates of deposit 6,236 Other debt securities 23,155 17 29,391 17 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 60 16,324 2,856 Total debt securities 122 74,937 2,883 Of which: 1 Listed on a recognised UK exchange 8,971 96 256 9,323 1 Listed elsewhere 27,580 505 974 10,898 39,957 Unlisted 122 38,386 2,282 977 13,191 54,958 122 74,937 2,883 2,207 24,089 104,238 Market value of listed securities 36,551 601 1,230 10,898 49,280 1.
These debt securities listed or registered on a recognised UK exchange or elsewhere are thinly traded or the market for these securities is illiquid Equity shares largely comprise investments in corporates.
286 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 21.
Investment securities continued The change in the carrying amount of investment securities comprised: 2015 2014 Debt Equity Treasury Debt Equity Treasury securities shares bills Total securities shares bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million As at 1 January 77,942 2,207 24,089 104,238 73,374 3,099 26,243 102,716 Exchange translation differences 2,868 4 966 3,838 2,411 5 693 3,109 Additions 132,800 375 76,300 209,475 135,920 224 59,910 196,054 Maturities and disposals 127,184 699 67,244 195,127 129,202 1,173 61,680 192,055 Transfers to assets held for sale 18 1 1 20 Impairment, net of recoveries on disposal 71 124 195 119 41 160 Changes in fair value including the effect of fair value hedging 14 34 7 27 478 104 23 605 Amortisation of discounts and premiums 39 1 281 241 80 287 207 As at 31 December 80,594 1,720 32,453 114,767 77,942 2,207 24,089 104,238 The analysis of unamortised premiums and unamortised discounts on debt securities and income on equity shares held for investment purposes is provided below: 2015 2014 $million $million Debt securities: Unamortised premiums 401 381 Unamortised discounts 149 229 Income from listed equity shares 92 77 Income from unlisted equity shares 19 20 The following table sets out the movement in the allowance of impairment provisions for investment securities classified as loans and receivables.
2015 2014 $million $million As at 1 January 26 26 Exchange translation differences 1 Amounts written off 34 1 Impairment charge 66 1 As at 31 December 57 26 22.
Other assets 2015 2014 $million $million Financial assets held at amortised cost note 15 1 Hong Kong SAR Government certificates of indebtedness note 29 4,907 4,738 Cash collateral 13,430 10,311 Acceptances and endorsements 3,949 5,212 Unsettled trades and other financial assets 10,122 10,493 32,408 30,754 Non-financial assets and assets held for sale Commodities 1,652 4,432 2 Assets held for sale 349 3,237 Other assets 192 266 34,601 38,689 1.
The Hong Kong SAR Government certificates of indebtedness are subordinated to the claims of other parties in respect of bank notes issued 2.
This includes disposal groups which are measured at fair value less costs to sell and the assets and liabilities held for sale are classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
The disposal groups mainly include businesses held for sale in Pakistan, consisting of Standard Chartered Leasing Co. Limited, Standard Chartered Modarba and Standard Chartered Services Pvt.
The disposal of the Pakistan businesses held for sale in December 2014 was not completed in 2015 due to developments beyond managements control: the transaction is expected to complete in 2016.
The businesses held for sale in Hong Kong, Korea and Lebanon at 31 December 2014 were completed in 2015.
TheGroup has recognised a fair value loss of $4 million 2014: $15 million within Other operating income note 7 relating to assets held for sale during 2015 287 Notes to the financial statements 23.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates 2015 2014 Investment in subsidiary undertakings $million $million As at 1 January 24,881 20,122 Additions 3,500 4,759 As at 31 December 28,381 24,881 As at 31 December 2015, the principal subsidiary undertakings, all indirectly held and principally engaged in the business of banking and provision of other financial services, were as follows: Group interest in ordinary share capital Country and place of incorporation or registration Main areas of operation % Standard Chartered Bank, England and Wales United Kingdom, Middle East, South Asia, Asia Pacific, 100 Americas and, through Group companies, Africa Standard Chartered Bank Korea Limited, Korea Korea 100 Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad, Malaysia Malaysia 100 Standard Chartered Bank Pakistan Limited, Pakistan Pakistan 98.99 Standard Chartered Bank Taiwan Limited, Taiwan Taiwan 100 Standard Chartered Bank Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong Hong Kong 100 Standard Chartered Bank Singapore Limited, Singapore Singapore 100 Standard Chartered Bank China Limited, China China 100 Standard Chartered Bank Thai Public Company Limited, Thailand Thailand 99.99 Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Limited, Nigeria Nigeria 100 Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited, Kenya Kenya 74.30 Standard Chartered Private Equity Limited, Hong Kong Hong Kong 100 A complete list of subsidiary undertakings is included in note 46.
The Group does not have any material non-controlling interests in any of its subsidiaries except the 25.7 per cent non-controlling interests amounting to $95 million 2014: $106 million in Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited.
This contributes 3.4 per cent of the Groups operating profit and 0.3 per cent of the Groups assets.
While the Groups subsidiaries are subject to local statutory capital and liquidity requirements in relation to foreign exchange remittance, these restrictions arise in the normal course of business and do not significantly restrict the Groups ability to access or use assets and settle liabilities of the Group.
Significant restrictions The Group does not have significant restrictions on its ability to access or use its assets and settle its liabilities other than those resulting from the regulatory framework within which the banking subsidiaries operate.
These frameworks require banking operations to keep certain levels of regulatory capital, liquid assets, exposure limits and comply with other required ratios.
These restrictions are summarised below: Regulatory and liquidity requirements The Groups subsidiaries are required to maintain minimum capital, leverage ratios, liquidity and exposure ratios which therefore restrict the ability of these subsidiaries to distribute cash or other assets to the parent company.
The subsidiaries are also required to maintain balances with central banks and other regulatory authorities in the countries in which they operate.
As at 31 December 2015, the total cash and balances with central banks was $65 billion 2014: $97 billion of which $9 billion 2014: $10 billion is restricted.
See liquid asset disclosure on page 192.
Statutory requirements The Groups subsidiaries are subject to statutory requirements not to make distributions of capital and unrealised profits to the parent company, generally to maintain solvency.
These requirements restrict the ability of subsidiaries to remit dividends to the Group.
Certain subsidiaries are also subject to local exchange control regulations which provide for restrictions on exporting capital from the country other than through normal dividends.
Contractual requirements The encumbered assets in the balance sheet of the Groups subsidiaries are not available for transfer around the Group.
Encumbered assets are disclosed on page 193.
In addition, the securitised assets disclosed in note 15 on page 280 have legal restrictions.
288 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 23.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates continued Interest in joint ventures 2015 2014 $million $million As at 1 January 751 656 Exchange translation difference 74 14 Additions 55 Share of profits 9 58 Dividends received 6 6 Share of AFS and Other reserves 1 2 As at 31 December 679 751 The Groups principal joint venture is PT Bank Permata Tbk Permata.
The Group has a 44.56 per cent 2014: 44.56 per cent interest through a joint venture company which holds a majority investment in Permata.
Permata provides financial services to the consumer and commercial segment in Indonesia.
The Groups share of profits of Permata amounts to $9 million 2014: $59 million and the Group share of net assets was$672 million 2014: $743 million.
The following table sets out the summarised financial statements of PT Bank Permata Tbk prior to the Groups share of the joint venture beingapplied: 2015 2014 $million $million Current assets 8,918 8,358 Non-current assets 4,183 6,562 Current liabilities 10,739 10,163 Non-current liabilities 1,107 3,372 Net assets 1,255 1,385 Operating income 623 626 Of which: Interest income 1,205 1,313 Interest expense 742 855 Expenses 573 454 Impairment 25 2 Operating profit 25 170 Taxation 5 38 Profit after tax 20 132 The above amounts of assets and liabilities include the following: Cash and cash equivalents 1,814 1,534 Other comprehensive income for the year 7 Total comprehensive income for the year 20 139 Dividends received from the joint venture during the year 6 6 Non-current assets are primarily loans to customers and current liabilities are primarily customer deposits based on contractual maturities.
289 Notes to the financial statements 23.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates continued Reconciliation of the net assets above to the carrying amount of the investments in PT Bank Permata Tbk recognised in the consolidated financialstatements: 2015 2014 $million $million Net assets of PT Bank Permata Tbk 1,255 1,385 Proportion of the Groups ownership interest in joint ventures 559 617 Notional goodwill 113 126 Carrying amount of the Groups interest in PT Bank Permata Tbk 672 743 Interests in associates China Bohai Asia Commercial Bank Bank ACB Other Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million As at 1 January 987 799 174 258 50 54 1211 1,111 Exchange translation differences 63 4 4 2 4 67 10 Additions 9 9 Share of profits 173 177 7 4 3 9 183 190 Disposals 18 18 Dividends received 5 5 1 2 6 7 Share of AFS and Other reserves 2 15 1 1 1 1 15 Impairment 46 80 17 46 97 As at 31 December 1,099 987 125 174 34 50 1,258 1,211 A complete list of the Groups interest in associates is included in note 46.
The Groups principal associates are: Group interest in ordinary Nature of Main areas share capital Associate activities of operation % China Bohai Bank Banking Operations China 19.99 Asia Commercial Bank ACB Banking Operations Vietnam 15.00 The Groups investments in China Bohai Bank and ACB are less than 20 per cent, but both are considered to be associates because of the significant influence the Group is able to exercise over the management of these companies and their financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is evidenced largely through the interchange of management personnel and the provision of expertise.
The Group applies the equity method of accounting for investments in associates.
The reporting dates of these associates are within three months of the Groups reporting date the reporting dates of China Bohai Bank and ACB are 30 November 2015 and 30 September 2015, respectively.
The fair value of ACB was $124 million as at 31 December 2015 2014: $101 million.
290 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 23.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates continued The following table sets out the summarised financial statements of China Bohai Bank and ACB prior to the Groups share ofthe associates being applied: China Bohai Bank Asia Commercial Bank ACB 30 Nov 2015 30 Nov 2014 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 $million $million $million $million Current assets 37,947 45,992 3,652 3,369 Non-current assets 85,877 60,618 4,937 5,011 Current liabilities 96,282 81,593 7,887 7,640 Non-current liabilities 22,047 20,078 141 156 Net assets 5,495 4,939 561 584 Operating income 2,968 2,503 303 258 Of which: Interest income 6,468 5,875 603 652 Interest expense 4,023 3,712 354 449 Expenses 1,110 1,051 197 173 Impairment 776 326 50 56 Operating profit 1,082 1,126 56 29 Taxation 221 241 12 4 Profit after tax 861 885 44 25 The above amounts of assets and liabilities include the following: Other comprehensive income loss for the year 9 35 Total comprehensive income for the year 870 850 44 25 Dividends received from the associate during the year 5 5 Non-current assets are primarily loans to customers and current liabilities are primarily customer deposits based on contractual maturities.
The following table sets out the reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the investments in associates recognised in the consolidated financial statements: 2015 2014 2015 2014 $million $million $million $million Net assets of the principal associates 5,495 4,939 561 584 Proportion of the Groups ownership interest in the associates 1,099 987 84 88 Goodwill net of impairment 35 81 Other adjustments 6 5 Carrying amount of the Groups interest in the principal associates 1,099 987 125 174 24.
Structured entities A structured entity is an entity that has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity.
Structured entities are generally created to achieve a narrow and well-defined objective with restrictions around their activities.
The Group has involvement with both consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities, which may be established by the Group or by a third party, as detailed below.
Interests in consolidated structured entities In accordance with the Groups accounting policies discussed in note 1, a structured entity is consolidated into the Groups financial statements where the Group controls the structured entity.
In determining whether to consolidate a structured entity to which assets have been transferred, the Group takes into account its ability to direct the relevant activities of the structured entity which is evidenced through a unilateral right to liquidate the structured entity, investment in a substantial proportion of the securities issued by the structured entity or where the Group holds specific subordinate securities that embody certain controlling rights.
The following table presents the Groups interests in consolidated structured entities.
2015 2014 Total assets Total assets $million $million 1 Securitisation 76 27 Aircraft and ship leasing 5,514 6,085 Structured finance 1,377 1,963 Total 6,967 8,075 1.
The amortisation charge for the year is recognised in the income statement within note 9 291 Notes to the financial statements 24.
Structured entities continued Interests in unconsolidated structured entities Unconsolidated structured entities are all structured entities that are not controlled by the Group.
The Group enters into transactions with unconsolidated structured entities in the normal course of business to facilitate customer transactions and for specific investment opportunities.
The table below presents the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities recognised in the financial statements relating to variable interests held in unconsolidated structured entities, the maximum exposure to loss relating to those interests and the total assets of the structured entities.
Maximum exposure to loss is primarily limited to the carrying amount of the Groups on-balance sheet exposure to the structured entity.
For derivatives, the maximum exposure to loss represents the on-balance sheet valuation and not the notional amount.
For commitments and guarantees, the maximum exposure to loss is the notional amount of potential future losses.
2015 2014 Principal Asset Principal Asset finance Structured backed finance Structured backed funds finance securities Total funds finance securities Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Groups interest assets Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 374 97 471 142 282 424 Loans and advances to customers 38 38 Investment securities Debt securities AFS 6,480 6,480 25 8,548 8,573 Investment securities Debt securities loans and receivables 61 1,156 1,217 1,350 1,350 Other assets 124 297 421 192 282 474 Total assets 559 297 7,733 8,589 397 282 10,180 10,859 Groups interest liabilities 1 Customer accounts 942 942 842 842 1 Debt securities in issue 1,304 1,304 313 313 Other liabilities 290 290 256 256 Total liabilities 2,246 290 2,536 1,155 256 1,411 Off-balance sheet 1 Capital commitment 560 560 555 555 Groups maximum 1 exposure to loss 1,119 297 7,733 9,149 952 282 10,180 11,414 1 Total assets of structured entities 160,887 297 507,172 668,356 126,925 283 365,076 492,284 1.
2014 balances have been restated The main types of activities for which the Group utilises unconsolidated structured entities cover synthetic credit default swaps for portfolio management purposes, managed investment funds including specialised principal finance funds, structured finance and asset backed securities.
Principal finance funds The Groups exposure to Principal Finance funds represents committed or invested capital in unleveraged investment funds, primarily investing in pan-Asian infrastructure, real estate and private equity.
Portfolio management For the purposes of portfolio management, the Group purchased credit protection via synthetic credit default swaps from note-issuing structured entities that the Group sponsors.
The referenced assets remain on the Groups balance sheet as they are not assigned to these structured entities.
The Group continues to own or hold all of the risks and returns relating to these assets.
The credit protection obtained from the regulatory-compliant securitisation only serves to protect the Group against losses upon the occurrence of eligible credit events and the underlying assets are not derecognised from the Group balance sheet.
The Group does not hold any debt or equity interest in the structured entities.
The proceeds of the notes issuance are typically held as cash collateral in the Issuers account, operated by a Trustee or invested in AAA-rated Government-backed securities to collateralise the structured entities swap obligations to the Group, and to repay the principal to investors at maturity.
The structured entities reimburse the Group on actual losses incurred, through the use of the cash collateral or realisation of the collateral security.
Correspondingly, the structured entities write down the notes issued by an equal amount of the losses incurred, in reverse order of seniority.
All funding is committed for the life of these vehicles and the Group has no indirect exposure in respect of the vehicles liquidity position.
The Group has reputational risk in respect of certain portfolio management vehicles and investment funds, either because the Group is the arranger and lead manager or because the structured entities have Standard Chartered branding.
292 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 24.
Structured entities continued Structured finance Structured finance comprises interests in transactions that the Group, or more usually a customer, has structured using one or more structured entities, which provide beneficial arrangements for customers.
The Groups exposure primarily represents the provision of funding to these structures as a financial intermediary, for which it receives a lenders return.
The transactions largely relate to the provision of aircraft leasing and ship finance.
Asset backed securities The Group also has investments in asset backed securities issued by third-party structured entities as set out on page 183 of the Risk and capital review.
The amortisation charge for the year is recognised in the income statement within note 9 As at 1 January 2014, the net book value was: goodwill, $5,207 million: acquired intangibles, $148 million: and software, $715 million.
As at 31 December 2015, accumulated goodwill impairment losses incurred from 1 January 2005 amounted to $2,315 million 2014: $1,827 million, of which $488 million was recognised in 2015 relating to goodwill held against the Taiwan $362 million and Thailand $126 million cash generating units 2014: $758 million relating to goodwill held against Korea and the Corporate advisory cash generating unit.
2015 2014 $million $million Acquired intangibles comprise: Core deposits 5 8 Customer relationships 50 75 Brand names 1 3 Licences 8 11 Net book value 64 97 Acquired intangibles primarily comprise those recognised as part of the acquisitions of Union Bank now amalgamated into Standard Chartered Bank Pakistan Limited, Hsinchu Bank now amalgamated into Standard Chartered Bank Taiwan Limited, Pembroke, Harrison Lovegrove, American Express Bank and Absas custody business in Africa.
The acquired intangibles are amortised over periods from four years to a maximum of 16 years.
293 Notes to the financial statements 25.
Goodwill and intangible assets continued Testing of goodwill for impairment An annual assessment is made as to whether the current carrying value of goodwill is impaired.
For the purposes of impairment testing goodwill is allocated at the date of acquisition to a cash generating unit CGU, and the table below sets out the goodwill allocated to each CGU.
Goodwill is considered to be impaired if the carrying amount of the relevant CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amounts for all the CGUs were measured based on value-in-use.
The key assumptions used in determining the recoverable amounts are set out below and are solely estimates for the purposes of assessing impairment of acquired goodwill.
MESA business consists of UAE, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Oman, Qatar, Bahrain, Lebanon, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh Methodology for determining value-in-use The calculation of value-in-use for each CGU is based on cash flow projections over a 20-year period, including a terminal value which is determined based on long-term earnings multiple consistent with available market data.
These cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate which reflects current market rates appropriate to the CGU as set out in the table above.
The cash flow projections are based on budgets and forecasts approved by management covering the five years to 2020, except for Financial Institutions and smaller CGUs disclosed within Other which cover one year to 2016.
Management forecasts project growth rates greater than long-term GDP rates but which are in line with past performance as adjusted to reflect the current economic climate.
For the period after management approved forecasts, the cash flows are extrapolated forward using steady long-term forecast GDP growth rates appropriate to the CGU.
Outcome of impairment assessment The Group has performed its annual impairment assessment on the level of the goodwill that has been assigned to the Groups CGUs for indicators of impairment, considering whether there were any reduced expectations for future cash flows and or fluctuations in the discount rate or the assumptions.
At 31 December 2015, the results of this assessment indicated that the carrying amount exceeded the recoverable value by $362 million for the Taiwan CGU, arising principally from a slowdown in the local market, and $126 million for the Thailand CGU, arising as a consequence of management actions to reposition the business following the Strategic Review, and has been classified as Restructuring.
An impairment charge of $488 million has been recognised to write down the goodwill attributable to these CGUs to their recoverable values.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the Taiwan CGU was 16.3 per cent and 17.4 per cent in respect of the Thailand CGU.
For all other CGUs the recoverable amounts exceed the carrying amounts against the key assumptions.
It continues to be possible that certain scenarios could be constructed where a combination of reasonably possible changes in the discount rate, coupled with a reduction in current business plan forecasts or the GDP growth rate, would potentially result in the carrying amount of goodwill exceeding the recoverable amount in the future for the Taiwan and Thailand CGUs.
294 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 26.
Property, plant and equipment 2015 2014 Operating Operating lease lease Premises Equipment assets Total Premises Equipment assets Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Cost or valuation As at 1 January 2,330 805 6,759 9,894 2,391 797 5,465 8,653 Exchange translation differences 107 52 159 68 29 97 Additions 45 85 885 1,015 72 117 1,966 2,155 Disposals and fully depreciated assets written off 108 103 853 1,064 48 80 672 800 Transfers to assets held for sale 4 264 268 17 17 As at 31 December 2,156 735 6,527 9,418 2,330 805 6,759 9,894 Depreciation Accumulated as at 1 January 655 581 674 1,910 600 582 568 1,750 Exchange translation differences 32 38 70 16 20 36 Charge for the year 91 88 258 437 105 95 234 434 Impairment charge 19 130 149 Attributable to assets sold, transferred or written off 62 103 32 197 34 76 128 238 Transfers to assets held for sale 3 17 20 Accumulated as at 31 December 668 528 1,013 2,209 655 581 674 1,910 Net book amount as at 31 December 1,488 207 5,514 7,209 1,675 224 6,085 7,984 As at 1 January 2014, the net book value was: premises, $1,791 million: equipment, $215 million: and operating lease assets, $4,897 million.
Assets held under finance leases have a net book value of $134 million 2014: $142 million with minimum lease payments of $4 million 2014:$7 million after future finance charges.
During the year, an impairment charge of $130 million 2014: $nil was recognised in respect of aircraft and ships held as operating lease assets, as the value-in-use of the assets was lower than the net book value.
The charge was recognised within the Corporate & Institutional Clients segment.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the year: Exchange As at 1 January and other Charge credit Charge credit As at 31 2015 adjustments to profit to equity December 2015 $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 289 7 37 319 Impairment provisions on loans and advances 314 21 474 767 Tax losses carried forward 325 9 80 396 Available-for-sale assets 92 3 2 58 29 Cash flow hedges 29 2 25 2 Retirement benefit obligations 79 2 4 10 71 Share-based payments 42 2 8 6 26 Other temporary differences 136 5 17 148 Net deferred tax assets 272 21 498 17 766 Exchange As at 1 January and other Charge credit Charge credit As at 31 2014 adjustments to profit to equity December 2014 $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 214 5 80 289 Impairment provisions on loans and advances 230 5 89 314 Tax losses carried forward 422 8 89 325 Available-for-sale assets 42 50 92 Cash flow hedges 2 31 29 Retirement benefit obligations 72 6 13 79 Share-based payments 71 27 2 42 Other temporary differences 184 3 45 136 Net deferred tax assets 353 5 68 8 272 295 Notes to the financial statements 27.
Deferred tax continued Deferred taxation comprises assets and liabilities as follows: 2015 2014 Total Asset Liability Total Asset Liability $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 319 18 337 289 22 267 Impairment provisions on loans and advances 767 765 2 314 365 51 Tax losses carried forward 396 253 143 325 203 122 Available-for-sale assets 29 9 20 92 55 37 Cash flow hedges 2 2 29 28 1 Retirement benefit obligations 71 59 12 79 74 5 Share-based payments 26 22 4 42 38 4 Other temporary differences 148 49 99 136 113 23 766 1,059 293 272 518 246 Where permitted deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset on an entity basis and not by component of deferred taxation.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group has net deferred tax assets of $766 million 2014: $272 million.
The recoverability of the Groups deferred tax assets is based on managements judgement of the availability of future taxable profits against which the deferred tax assets will be utilised.
Of the Groups total deferred tax assets, $396 million relates to tax losses carried forward.
These tax losses have arisen in individual legal entities and will be offset as future taxable profits arise in those entities.
$141 million of the deferred tax assets relating to losses has arisen in Ireland, where there is no expiry date for unused tax losses.
These losses relate to aircraft leasing and are expected to be fully utilised over the useful economical life of the assets, being up to 25 years.
$90 million of the deferred tax assets relating to losses has arisen in Korea.
Management forecasts show that the losses are expected to be fully utilised over a period of three years.
The tax losses expire after 10 years.
$76 million of the deferred tax assets relating to losses has arisen in the US.
Management forecasts show that the losses are expected to be fully utilised over a period of seven years.
The tax losses expire after 20 years.
$43 million of the deferred tax assets relating to losses has arisen in Taiwan.
Management forecasts show that the losses are expected to be fully utilised over a period of four years.
The remaining deferred tax assets relating to losses has arisen in other jurisdictions and is expected to be recovered in less than 10 years.
2015 2014 $million $million No account has been taken of the following potential deferred taxation assets liabilities : Withholding tax on unremitted earnings from overseas subsidiaries 237 344 Foreign exchange movements on investments in branches 241 140 Tax losses 499 96 Held over gains on incorporation of overseas branches 468 478 Other temporary differences 38 296 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 28.
Debt securities in issue 2015 2014 Certificates of Certificates of deposit of Other debt deposit of Other debt $100,000 securities $100,000 securities or more in issue Total or more in issue Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Debt securities in issue 20,174 39,706 59,880 28,585 43,366 71,951 Debt securities in issue included within: Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss note 15 104 8,813 8,917 125 8,712 8,837 Total debt securities in issue 20,278 48,519 68,797 28,710 52,078 80,788 In 2015, the Company issued a total of $4.2 billion senior notes for general business purposes of the Group, as shown below: Securities $million $750 million fixed rate senior notes due 2018 747 $250 million floating rate senior notes due 2018 249 $1,250 million fixed rate senior notes due 2020 1,245 $750 million fixed rate senior notes due 2025 745 JPY 36,900 million fixed rate notes due 2018 293 JPY 93,100 million fixed rate notes due 2020 739 JPY 20,000 million fixed rate notes due 2025 159 29.
Other liabilities 2015 2014 $million $million Financial liabilities held at amortised cost note 15 1 Notes in circulation 4,907 4,738 Acceptances and endorsements 3,949 5,212 Cash collateral 10,074 7,005 Unsettled trades and other financial liabilities 12,595 13,131 31,525 30,086 Non-financial liabilities Cash-settled share-based payments 18 37 2 Liabilities held for sale 72 710 3 Other liabilities 396 404 32,011 31,237 1.
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation of $4,907 million 2014: $4,738 million that are secured by the government of Hong Kong SAR certificates of indebtedness of the same amount included in other assets note 22 2.
The $72 million is in respect of businesses held for sale in Pakistan: the disposal group consists of Standard Chartered Leasing Co. Limited, Standard Chartered Modarba andStandard Chartered Services Pvt.
The related assets are disclosed in note 22 3.
Certain balances have been reclassified to provision for liabilities and charges for consistent presentation 297 Notes to the financial statements 30.
Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 2015 2014 $million $million Subordinated loan capital issued by subsidiary undertakings 700 million 7.75 per cent subordinated notes 2018 1,106 1,208 675 million 5.375 per cent undated step up subordinated notes callable 2020 651 706 600 million 8.103 per cent step up callable perpetual preferred securities callable 2016 905 1,013 200 million 7.75 per cent undated step up subordinated notes callable 2022 364 400 1.1 billion 5.875 per cent subordinated notes 2017 1,280 1,474 $1 billion 6.4 per cent subordinated notes 2017 1,065 1,099 $750 million 5.875 per cent subordinated notes 2020 799 802 $700 million 8.0 per cent subordinated notes 2031 636 641 BWP 127.26 million 8.2 per cent subordinated notes 2022 callable 2017 11 13 BWP 70 million floating rate subordinated notes 2021 callable 2016 6 7 BWP 50 million floating rate notes 2022 callable 2017 5 5 JPY 10 billion 3.35 per cent subordinated notes 2023 callable 2018 86 87 KRW 270 billion 4.67 per cent subordinated debt 2021 callable 2016 231 247 KRW 90 billion 6.05 per cent subordinated debt 2018 85 92 PKR 2.5 billion floating rate notes 2022 callable 2017 24 25 SGD 750 million 4.15 per cent subordinated notes 2021 callable 2016 503 541 SGD 450 million 5.25 per cent subordinated notes 2023 callable 2018 323 355 TZS 10 billion 11 per cent subordinated notes 2020 callable 2015 6 UGX 40 billion 13 per cent subordinated notes 2020 callable 2015 12 14 8,092 8,735 Subordinated loan capital issued by the Company Primary capital floating rate notes: $400 million 44 44 $300 million Series 2 80 80 $400 million Series 3 64 64 $200 million Series 4 50 50 150 million 45 47 900 million 5.125 per cent subordinated debt 2034 1,463 1,588 $2 billion 5.7 per cent subordinated debt 2044 2,379 2,341 $2 billion 3.95 per cent subordinated debt 2023 1,985 1,952 $1.25 billion 4 per cent subordinated notes 2022 callable 2017 1,247 1,242 $1 billion 5.7 per cent subordinated notes 2022 1,003 989 $1 billion 5.2 per cent subordinated debt 2024 996 996 $750 million 5.3 per cent subordinated debt 2043 789 774 1.25 billion 4 per cent subordinated debt 2025 callable 2020 1,420 1,599 750 million 3.625 per cent subordinated notes 2022 858 968 500 million 3.125 per cent subordinated debt 2024 535 604 SGD 700 million 4.4 per cent subordinated notes 2026 callable 2021 473 515 1 Other subordinated borrowings issued by company 329 359 13,760 14,212 Total for Group 21,852 22,947 1.
Other borrowings comprise irredeemable sterling preference shares note 33.
In the balance sheet of the Company the amount recognised is $305 million 2014: $324 million, with the difference being the effect of hedge accounting achieved on a Group basis 298 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 30.
Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds continued 2015 USD GBP Euro Others Total $million $million $million $million $million Fixed rate subordinated debt 10,899 4,818 4,093 1,724 21,534 Floating rate subordinated debt 238 45 35 318 Total 11,137 4,863 4,093 1,759 21,852 2014 USD GBP Euro Others Total $million $million $million $million $million Fixed rate subordinated debt 10,836 5,274 4,645 1,870 22,625 Floating rate subordinated debt 238 47 37 322 Total 11,074 5,321 4,645 1,907 22,947 All subordinated liabilities are unsecured, unguaranteed and subordinated to the claims of other creditors including without limitation, customer deposits and deposits by banks.
The Group has the right to settle these debt instruments in certain circumstances as set out in the contractual agreements.
Redemptions during the year On 21 October 2015, Standard Chartered Bank Tanzania Limited exercised its right to redeem its TZS 10 billion 11 per cent subordinated debt due 2020 in full on the first optional call date.
Issuance during the year There was no new issuance during the year.
Provisions for liabilities and charges 2015 Provision for credit Other commitments provisions Total $million $million $million 1 1 As at 1 January 20 109 129 Exchange translation differences 3 4 7 Charge against profit 94 89 183 Provisions utilised 11 79 90 As at 31 December 100 115 215 1.
Restated for certain balances previously presented under Other liabilities Provision for credit commitment comprises those undrawn contractually committed facilities where there is doubt as to the borrowers ability to meet their repayment obligations.
Other provisions consist mainly of provisions for regulatory settlements and legal claims note 41.
299 Notes to the financial statements 32.
Retirement benefit obligations Retirement benefit obligations comprise: 2015 2014 $million $million Defined benefit plans obligation 422 391 Defined contribution plans obligation 23 22 Net obligation 445 413 Retirement benefit charge comprises: 2015 2014 $million $million Defined benefit plans 96 105 Defined contribution plans 203 228 Charge against loss profit note 8 299 333 The Group operates 50 defined benefit plans across its geographies, many of which are closed to new entrants who now join defined contribution arrangements.
The aim of all these plans is to give employees the opportunity to save appropriately for retirement in a way that is consistent with local regulations, taxation requirements and market conditions.
The defined benefit plans expose the Group to currency risk, interest rate risk, investment risk and actuarial risks such as longevity risk.
The UK Fund is the Groups largest arrangement, representing 60 per cent of total pension liabilities.
The disclosures required under IAS 19 have been calculated by independent qualified actuaries based on the most recent full actuarial valuations updated, where necessary, to 31 December 2015.
UK Fund The Standard Chartered Pension Fund the UK Fund is the Groups largest pension plan and provides pensions based on one-sixtieth of final salary per year of service, normally payable from age 60.
The UK Fund is set up under a Trust that is legally separate from the Bank its formal sponsor and as required by UK legislation, at least one-third of the Trustee Directors are nominated by members: the remainder are appointed by the Bank.
The Trustee Directors have a fiduciary duty to members and are responsible for governing the UK Fund in accordance with its Trust Deed and Rules.
The financial position of the UK Fund is regularly assessed by an independent qualified actuary.
The most recent funding valuation was performed as at 31 December 2014 by A Zegleman, Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries, of Willis Towers Watson, using the projected unit method and assumptions different from those below.
To repair the $106 million 72 million past service deficit identified as at 31 December 2014, four annual cash payments of $18.6 million 12.6 million will be made from January 2016 onwards.
If the funding position improves more quickly than expected, the three payments from January 2017 will be reduced or eliminated.
In addition, an escrow account of $162 million 110 million exists to provide security for future contributions.
The Bank is not required to recognise any additional liability under IFRIC 14 or the current exposure draft of proposed amendments to it as it has control of any pension surplus.
Following the 31 December 2014 valuation, regular contributions to the UK Fund were set at 32 per cent of pensionable salary for all members.
The next valuation is due on 31 December 2017.
With effect from 1 July 1998, the UK Fund was closed to new entrants and new employees are offered membership of a defined contribution plan.
Over 85 per cent of the Funds liabilities now relate to pensioners or ex-employees who have left the Group but have not yet retired.
As at 31 December 2015, the weighted-average duration of the UK Fund was 15 years 2014: 15 years.
Overseas plans The principal overseas defined benefit arrangements operated by the Group are in Germany, Hong Kong, India, Jersey, Korea, Taiwan and the United States US.
The Groups expected contribution to its defined benefit pension plans in 2016 is $90 million.
The assumptions for life expectancy for the UK Fund are that a male member currently aged 60 will live for 28 years 2014: 28 years and a female member 29 years 2014: 29 years and a male member currently aged 40 will live for 30 years 2014: 30 years and a female member 31 years 2014: 31 years after their 60th birthdays 2.
The range of assumptions shown is for the main funded defined benefit overseas plans in Germany, Hong Kong, India, Jersey, Korea, Taiwan and the US.
These comprise over 85 per cent of the total liabilities of funded overseas plans 300 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 32.
Retirement benefit obligations continued These assumptions are likely to change in the future and this will affect the value placed on the liabilities.
For example, changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below: If the discount rate for the UK Fund increased by 25 basis points bps the liability would reduce by approximately $60 million If the rate of inflation and pension increases for the UK Fund increased by 25 bps the liability would increase by approximately $60 million If the rate salaries increase compared to inflation for the UK Fund increased by 25 bps the liability would increase by approximately $5 million If longevity expectations increased by one year for the UK Fund the liability would increase by approximately $45 million Although this analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the UK Fund, it does provide an approximation of the sensitivity to the main assumptions.
While changes in other assumptions would also have an impact, the effect would not be as significant.
The post-retirement medical plan is in the US 2.
The range of assumptions shown is for the main unfunded plans in India, Indonesia, Korea, Thailand, UAE and the UK.
They comprise over 85 per cent of the total liabilities of unfunded plans The fair value of assets and present value of liabilities of the plans attributable to defined benefit members were: 2015 2014 Funded plans Unfunded plans Funded plans Unfunded plans PostPostOverseas retirement Overseas retirement UK Fund plans medical Other UK Fund plans medical Other As at 31 December $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Equities 176 267 N A N A 367 287 N A N A Government bonds 686 164 N A N A 852 169 N A N A Corporate bonds 192 68 N A N A 199 73 N A N A Absolute return fund 187 N A N A N A N A 1 Hedge funds 189 N A N A 191 N A N A 1 Insurance linked funds 56 N A N A 53 N A N A 1 Opportunistic credit 79 N A N A 79 N A N A Property 71 5 N A N A 78 5 N A N A Derivatives 11 N A N A 5 2 N A N A Cash and equivalents 49 197 N A N A 23 218 N A N A 1 Others 9 25 N A N A 12 31 N A N A 2 Total fair value of assets 1,683 726 N A N A 1,849 785 N A N A 3 Present value of liabilities 1,719 901 24 187 1,839 963 27 196 Net pension liability asset 36 175 24 187 10 178 27 196 1.
Self investment is monitored closely and is less than $2 million of Standard Chartered equities and bonds for 2015 2014: $1 million.
Self investment is only allowed where it is not practical to exclude it, for example, through investment in index-tracking funds where the Group is a constituent of the relevant index 3.
Includes $nil 2014: $1 million impact as a result of unrecognisable surplus in Kenya 301 Notes to the financial statements 32.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The pension cost for defined benefit plans was: Funded plans Unfunded plans PostOverseas retirement UK Fund plans medical Other Total 2015 $million $million $million $million $million Current service cost 7 62 1 21 91 Past service cost and curtailments 2 2 1 Gain on settlements 7 7 Interest income on pension plan assets 64 24 88 Interest on pension plan liabilities 63 29 1 9 102 Total charge to loss before deduction of tax 6 58 2 30 96 2 Return on plan assets excluding interest income 45 22 67 Losses gains on liabilities 2 7 4 15 10 Total losses gains recognised directly in statement of comprehensive income before tax 47 29 4 15 57 Deferred taxation 15 5 10 Total losses gains after tax 62 24 4 15 67 1.
These movements reflect a reduction in workforce in a number of geographies as a result of the restructuring actions of the Group 2.
The actual return on the UK Fund assets was $19 million and on overseas plan assets was $2 million Funded plans Unfunded plans PostOverseas retirement UK Fund plans medical Other Total 2014 $million $million $million $million $million Current service cost 8 65 1 20 94 Past service cost and curtailments 1 1 Gain on settlements 1 1 Interest income on pension plan assets 80 28 108 Interest on pension plan liabilities 81 31 1 8 121 Total charge to profit before deduction of tax 9 66 2 28 105 1 Return on plan assets excluding interest income 138 15 153 Losses gains on liabilities 105 89 1 21 214 Total gains losses recognised directly in statement of comprehensive income before tax 33 74 1 21 61 Deferred taxation 5 18 13 Total gains losses after tax 28 56 1 21 48 1.
The actual return on the UK Fund assets was $218 million and on overseas plan assets was $43 million 302 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 32.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Movement in the defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical deficit during the year comprise: Funded plans Unfunded plans PostOverseas retirement UK Fund plans medical Other Total $million $million $million $million $million Deficit as at 1 January 2015 10 178 27 196 391 Contributions 7 81 1 20 109 Current service cost 7 62 1 21 91 Past service cost and curtailments 2 2 Settlement costs and transfers impact 7 7 Net interest on the net defined benefit asset liability 1 5 1 9 14 Actuarial losses gains 47 29 4 15 57 Exchange rate adjustment 9 4 13 Deficit as at 31 December 2015 36 175 24 187 422 Funded plans Unfunded plans PostOverseas retirement UK Fund plans medical Other Total $million $million $million $million $million Deficit as at 1 January 2014 23 122 26 170 341 Contributions 9 75 14 98 Current service cost 8 65 1 20 94 Past service cost and curtailments 1 1 Settlement costs 1 1 Net interest on the net defined benefit asset liability 1 3 1 8 13 Actuarial gains losses 33 74 1 21 61 Exchange rate adjustment 9 9 18 Deficit as at 31 December 2014 10 178 27 196 391 2015 2014 Assets Obligations Total Assets Obligations Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Deficit as at 1 January 2,634 3,025 391 2,585 2,926 341 1 Contributions 110 1 109 100 2 98 2 Current service cost 91 91 94 94 Past service cost and curtailments 2 2 1 1 Settlement costs 46 53 7 11 12 1 Interest cost on pension plan liabilities 102 102 121 121 Interest income on pension plan assets 88 88 108 108 2 Benefits paid out 196 196 167 167 3 Actuarial losses gains 67 10 57 153 214 61 Exchange rate adjustment 114 127 13 134 152 18 Deficit as at 31 December 2,409 2,831 422 2,634 3,025 391 1.
Includes employee contributions of $1 million 2014: $2 million 2.
Includes administrative expenses paid out of plan assets of $1 million 2014: $1 million 3.
Actuarial gain on obligation comprises $42 million gain 2014: $205 million loss from financial assumption changes, $5 million gain 2014: $12 million loss from demographic assumption changes and $37 million loss 2014: $3 million gain from experience 303 Notes to the financial statements 33.
Share capital, other equity instruments and reserves Group and Company Number of Ordinary Preference Total Other equity 1 ordinary shares share capital share capital share capital instruments millions $million $million $million $million As at 1 January 2014 2,427 1,214 1,214 Capitalised on scrip dividend 38 19 19 Shares issued 8 3 3 As at 31 December 2014 2,473 1,236 1,236 Capitalised on scrip dividend 71 36 36 Shares issued 734 367 367 Additional Tier 1 equity issuance 1,987 As at 31 December 2015 3,278 1,639 1,639 1,987 1.
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 50 cents each Ordinary share capital In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company does not have authorised share capital.
The nominal value of each ordinary share is 50 cents.
On 14 May 2015, the Company issued 69,186,004 new ordinary shares instead of the final dividend and on 19 October 2015 the Company issued 2,154,390 new ordinary shares instead of the 2015 interim dividend.
During the year, 5,694,811 shares were issued under employee share plans at prices between nil and 1,140 pence.
On 3 November 2015, the Company announced the issue of 728,432,451 new ordinary shares by way of rights to qualifying shareholders at 465 pence per new ordinary share.
The rights issue raised $5.1 billion 3.3 billion in additional capital for the Company, net of expenses of $107 million.
The proceeds will be used in the ordinary course of business.
The rights issue used a cash box structure involving a Jersey subsidiary JerseyCo, which was fully owned by the Company prior to the transaction.
In return for an issue of shares by the Company to the investors, the net proceeds of the share issue were paid to JerseyCo.
Pursuant to the issue of those shares, the Company acquired the remaining share capital of JerseyCo, being all of its redeemable preference shares it did not own.
Under this structure, merger relief applies under Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006, which provides relief from the requirements under Section 610 of the Companies Act 2006 to create a share premium account.
JerseyCo then redeemed its redeemable shares in exchange for the share issue proceeds.
Preference share capital At 31 December 2015 and 2014, the Company has 15,000 $5 non-cumulative redeemable preference shares in issue, with a premium of $99,995 making a paid up amount per preference share of $100,000.
The preference shares are redeemable at the option of the Company and are classified in equity.
The available profits of the Company are distributed to the holders of the issued preference shares in priority to payments made to holders of the ordinary shares and in priority to, or pari passu with, any payments to the holders of any other class of shares in issue.
On a winding up, the assets of the Company are applied to the holders of the preference shares in priority to any payment to the ordinary shareholders and in priority to, or pari passu with, the holders of any other shares in issue, for an amount equal to any dividends accrued and or payable and the nominal value of the shares together with any premium as determined by the Board.
The redeemable preference shares are redeemable at the paid up amount which includes premium at the option of the Company in accordance with the terms of the shares.
The holders of the preference shares are not entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting except where any relevant dividend due is not paid in full or where a resolution is proposed varying the rights of the preference shares.
Other equity instruments On 2 April 2015, Standard Chartered PLC issued $2,000 million Fixed Rate Resetting Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities as Additional Tier 1 AT1 securities, raising $1,987 million after issue costs for general business purposes and to increase the regulatory capital base of the Group.
The principal terms of the AT1 securities are described below: The securities are perpetual and redeemable at the option of Standard Chartered PLC in whole but not in part, on the first call date or on any fifth anniversary after the first call date The securities are also redeemable for certain regulatory or tax reasons on any date at 100 per cent of their principal amount together with any accrued but unpaid interest to but excluding the date fixed for redemption.
Any redemption is subject to Standard Chartered PLC giving notice to the relevant regulator and the regulator granting permission to redeem The interest rate in respect of the securities for the period from and including the issue date to but excluding 2 April 2020 is a fixed rate of 6.50 per cent per annum.
The reset date for the interest rate is 2 April 2020 and each date falling five years, or an integral multiple of five years, after the first reset date The interest rate on the securities will be payable semi-annually in arrears on 2 April and 2 October in each year, with commencement date of 2 October 2015, accounted for as a dividend 304 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 33.
Share capital, other equity instruments and reserves continued Interest on the securities is due and payable only at the sole and absolute discretion of Standard Chartered PLC, subject to certain additional restrictions set out in the terms and conditions.
Accordingly, Standard Chartered PLC may at any time elect to cancel any interest payment orpart thereof which would otherwise be payable on any interest payment date The securities convert into ordinary shares of Standard Chartered PLC, at a pre-determined price, should the fully loaded Common Equity Tier1 ratio of the Group fall below 7.0 per cent.
Approximately 184 million ordinary shares would be required to satisfy the conversion The securities rank behind the claims against Standard Chartered PLC of a unsubordinated creditors, b which are expressed to be subordinated to the claims of unsubordinated creditors of Standard Chartered PLC, but not further or otherwise, or c which are, or are expressed to be, junior to the claims of other creditors of Standard Chartered PLC, whether subordinated or unsubordinated, other than claims which rank, or are expressed to rank, pari passu with, or junior to, the claims of holders of the AT1 securities in a winding-up occurring prior tothe conversion trigger Reserves The cumulative amount of goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiary and associated undertakings written off against Group reserves since 1973 is$27 million 2014: $27 million.
The capital reserve represents the exchange difference on redenomination of share capital and share premium from sterling to US dollars in 2001.
The capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of preference shares redeemed.
The merger reserve represents the premium arising on shares issued using a cash box financing structure, which required the Company to create a merger reserve under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
Shares were issued using this structure in 2005 and 2006 to assist in the funding of certain acquisitions, in 2008, 2010 and 2015, for the shares issued by way of a rights issue, and for the shares issued in 2009 in the placing.
The funding raised by the 2008 and 2010 rights issues and 2009 share issue was fully retained within the Company.
Of the 2015 funding, $1.5 billion was used to subscribe to additional equity in Standard Chartered Bank, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
The available-for-sale reserve represents the unrealised fair value gains and losses in respect of financial assets classified as available-for-sale, net of taxation.
Gains and losses are deferred in this reserve and are reclassified to the income statement when the underlying asset is sold, matures or becomes impaired.
The cash flow hedge reserve represents the effective portion of the gains and losses on derivatives that meet the criteria for these types of hedges.
Gains and losses are deferred in this reserve and are reclassified to the income statement when the underlying hedged item affects profit and loss or when a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur.
The translation reserve represents the cumulative foreign exchange gains and losses on translation of the net investment of the Group in foreign operations.
Since 1 January 2004, gains and losses are deferred to this reserve and are reclassified to the income statement when the underlying foreign operation is disposed.
Gains and losses arising from derivatives used as hedges of net investments are netted against the foreign exchange gains and losses on translation of the net investment of the foreign operations.
Retained earnings represent profits and other comprehensive income earned by the Group and Company in the current and prior periods, together with the after-tax increase relating to equity-settled share options, less dividend distributions and own shares held treasury shares.
A substantial part of the Groups reserves are held in overseas subsidiary undertakings and branches, principally to support local operations or tocomply with local regulations.
The maintenance of local regulatory capital ratios could potentially restrict the amount of reserves which can be remitted.
In addition, if these overseas reserves were to be remitted, further unprovided taxation liabilities might arise.
As at 31 December 2015, the distributable reserves of Standard Chartered PLC the Company were $15.2 billion 2014: $12 billion.
These comprised retained earnings and $12.5 billion of the merger reserve account.
Distribution of reserves is subject to maintaining minimum capital requirements.
Own shares Bedell Trustees Limited is the trustee of the 1995 Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust 1995 Trust, and was the trustee of the Standard Chartered 2004 Employee Benefit Trust 2004 Trust until retiring in October 2015.
Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited was appointed as thenew trustee of the 2004 Trust on 20 October 2015.
The 2004 Trust is used in conjunction with the Groups employee share schemes and the1995 Trust is used for the delivery of other employee share-based payments such as upfront shares and fixed pay allowances.
The Group companies fund the trusts, from time-to-time, to enable the trustees to acquire shares to satisfy these arrangements.
Except as disclosed, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has bought, sold or redeemed any securities of the Company listed on TheStock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited during the period.
Details of the shares purchased and held by the trusts are set out below, including rights issue take up as applicable.
Non-controlling interests $300 million Other 7.267% Hybrid non-controlling Tier 1 securities interests Total $million $million $million As at 1 January 2014 320 275 595 Expenses in equity attributable to non-controlling interests 29 29 Profits attributable to non-controlling interests 4 88 92 Comprehensive income for the year 4 59 63 Distributions 11 49 60 1 Other decreases increases 313 21 292 As at 31 December 2014 306 306 Expense in equity attributable to non-controlling interests 38 38 Loss attributable to non-controlling interests 2 2 Comprehensive loss for the year 40 40 Distributions 26 26 2 Other increases 81 81 As at 31 December 2015 321 321 1.
The $300 million 7.267% Hybrid Tier 1 securities issued by Standard Chartered Bank Korea Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, were redeemed during 2014.
The Group had no interest in these securities 2.
Additional investment from non-controlling interests in one of the Groups undertakings 35.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share-based arrangements for its executive directors and employees.
Details of the share-based payment charge are set out below.
2 2 2015 2014 1 Cash Equity Total Cash Equity Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred share awards 18 119 101 5 191 186 Other share awards 5 50 45 14 62 48 Total share based payments 23 169 146 19 253 234 1.
The credit charge for cash settled awards reflects a reduction in expected liability in line with the movement in share price 2.
No forfeiture assumed 2011 Standard Chartered Share Plan Approved by shareholders in May 2011, the 2011 Standard Chartered Share Plan the 2011 Plan, is the Groups main share plan: applicable to allemployees with the flexibility to provide a variety of award types.
The 2011 Plan is designed to deliver various types of share awards including those subject to long-term performance conditions, giving the Group sufficient flexibility to meet the challenges of the changing regulatory and competitive environment.
Share awards are a key part of both executive directors and senior managements variable compensation.
Such awards ensure that there is an appropriate return for the risk taken and that the measure is aligned with the Groups risk appetite.
Performance shares are subject to a combination of three performance measures: relative total shareholder return TSR, earnings per share EPS growth and return on risk-weighted assets RoRWA.
The weighting between the three elements is split equally, one-third of the award depending on each measure, assessed independently.
Performance share awards form part of the variable compensation awarded to executive directors Deferred awards are used to deliver the deferred portion of total variable compensation, in line with both market practice and regulatory requirements.
These awards are subject to a threeor five-year deferral period, vesting equally on each anniversary of the award date.
Deferred awards are not subject to any plan limit.
This enables the Group to meet regulatory requirements relating to deferral levels, and is in line with market practice Underpin shares are subject to a combination of two performance measures: EPS growth and RoRWA.
The weighting between the two elements is split equally, one-half of the award depending on each measure, assessed independently.
Underpin shares formed part of the variable compensation awarded to executive directors and senior management in respect of 2014 performance Restricted share awards which are made outside of the annual performance process, as additional incentive, retention mechanisms or asreplacement awards to new joiners who forfeit awards on leaving their previous employers, are provided as restricted shares under the 2011Plan.
These awards typically vest in equal instalments on the second and third anniversaries of the award date.
In line with similar plans operated by our competitors, restricted share awards are not subject to an annual limit and do not have any performance conditions 306 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 35.
Share-based payments continued Valuation performance shares The fair value of the TSR component is derived by discounting one-third of the award by the loss of expected dividends over the vesting period together with the probability of meeting the relative TSR condition, which is calculated by the area under the TSR vesting schedule curve.
The EPS growth fair value is derived by discounting one-third of the award respectively by the loss of expected dividends over the vesting period.
The same approach is applied to calculate the RoRWA fair value for one-third of the award.
In respect of the EPS growth and RoRWA components, the number of shares expected to vest is adjusted for actual performance when calculating the share-based payment charge for the year.
The same fair value applies to all employees including executive directors.
The remaining life of the plan during which new awards can be made is five years.
2015 2014 Grant date 19 March 10 December 17 September 18 June 13 March Share price at grant date 10.51 9.34 12.28 12.83 11.92 Vesting period years 5 3 3 3 3 Expected dividend yield % 5.7 5.7 5.8 5.6 5.3 Fair value EPS 2.65 2.64 3.45 3.63 3.40 Fair value RoRWA 2.65 2.64 3.45 3.63 3.40 Fair value TSR 1.08 1.07 1.41 1.48 1.38 The expected dividend yield assumption is based on a historical average over a period commensurate with this period until vesting, or over one year if the period until vesting is less than one year.
Valuation deferred shares, underpin shares and restricted shares The fair value, for all employees including executive directors, is based on 100 per cent of the face value of the shares at the date of grant as the share price will reflect expectations of all future dividends.
Deferred shares and underpin shares accrue dividend equivalent payments during the vesting period.
The expected dividend yield assumption is based on a historical average over a period commensurate with this average period until vesting, or over one year if the average period until vesting is less than one year.
Details of deferred, underpin and performance shares awards for executive directors can be found in the Directors remuneration report on page 127 to 129.
All awards are subject to the Groups claw-back policy.
Deferred shares include 88,024 underpin shares, granted on 19 March 2015, with threeand five-year cliff vesting.
Valuation as per deferred shares granted on the same date Deferred awards accrue dividend equivalent payments during the vesting period.
Under the 2001 PSP half the award is dependent upon TSR performance and the balance is subject to a target of defined EPS growth.
Both measures use the same three-year period and are assessed independently.
2006 Restricted Share Scheme 2006 RSS 2007 Supplementary Restricted Share Scheme 2007 SRSS The Groups previous plans for delivering restricted shares were the 2006 RSS and 2007 SRSS, both now replaced by the 2011 Plan.
There remain outstanding vested awards under these plans.
Awards were generally in the form of nil cost options and do not have any performance conditions.
Generally deferred restricted share awards vest equally over three years and for non-deferred awards half vests two years after the date of grant and the balance after three years.
No further awards will be granted under the 2006 RSS and 2007 SRSS.
307 Notes to the financial statements 35.
Share-based payments continued All Employee Sharesave Plan 2004 International Sharesave, 2004 UK Sharesave and 2013 Sharesave Under the Sharesave plans, employees have the choice of opening a savings contract.
Within a period of six months after the third or fifth anniversary, as appropriate, employees may purchase ordinary shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20 per cent on the share price at the date of invitation.
There are no performance conditions attached to options granted under the Sharesave plans.
In some countries in which the Group operates, it is not possible to operate Sharesave plans, typically due to securities law and regulatory restrictions.
In these countries the Group offers an equivalent cash-based plan to its employees.
The 2004 Sharesave plans are now closed and no further awards will be granted under these plans.
The Standard Chartered 2013 Sharesave Plan was approved by shareholders in May 2013 and all future Sharesave invitations are made under this plan.
The remaining life of the 2013 Sharesave Plan is seven years.
Valuation Sharesave Options under the Sharesave plans are valued using a binomial option-pricing model.
The same fair value is applied to all employees including executive directors.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: All Employee Sharesave Plan Sharesave 2015 2014 Grant date 7 October 8 October Share price at grant date 7.41 11.12 1 Exercise price 5.86 9.85 Vesting period years 3 3 Expected volatility % 28.0 25.1 Expected option life years 3.33 3.33 Risk-free rate % 0.9 1.19 Expected dividend yield % 6.3 5.8 Fair value 1.40 1.61 1.
For Sharesave granted in 2015 and 2014 the exercise prices have been adjusted downwards to reflect the rights issue by approximately 5.06 per cent the adjusted exercise prices are 5.58 for 2015 and 9.38 for 2014 The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years, or three years prior to grant.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK Government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
The expected dividend yield is based on historical dividend for three years prior to grant.
Employees do not contribute towards the cost of these awards 2.
For Sharesave granted in 2015 the exercise price has been adjusted downwards to reflect the rights issue by approximately 5.06 per cent the adjusted exercise price is 5.58 3.
For grants awarded prior to the announcement of the rights issue and which had not been exercised or lapsed as of 23 November 2015, the number of shares under award has been adjusted upwards to reflect the rights issue by approximately 5.06 per cent.
The adjustment follows the standard approach that companies apply to employee shares awards in the event of a rights issue.
The adjustment compensates participants for their inability to participate in the rights issue in relation to their outstanding employee share awards 4.
9,426,009 granted on 19 March 2015, 781,538 notional dividend granted on 13 March 2015, 140,722 granted on 17 June 2015, 2,572 notional dividend granted on 18 June 2015, 261 notional dividend granted on 19 September 2015, 1,215,196 granted on 22 September 2015, and 87,783 granted on 1 December 2015 308 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 35.
7,738,315 granted on 13 March 2014, 268,035 notional dividend granted on 11 March 2014, 231,006 notional dividend granted on 13 March 2014, 81,432 granted on 18 June 2014, 263 notional dividend granted on 19 June 2014, 3,101 notional dividend granted on 20 June 2014, 40 notional dividend granted on 22 June 2014, 223,209 granted on 17 September 2014, 368 notional dividend granted on 17 September 2014 and 196,099 granted on 10 December 2014 4.
Granted on 10 March 2014 and relates to notional dividend applied to unvested portion of awards 36.
Cash flow statement Adjustment for non-cash items and other adjustments included within income statement Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 $million $million $million $million Amortisation of discounts and premiums of investment securities 241 207 Interest expense on subordinated liabilities 565 738 428 394 Interest expense on senior debt securities in issue 436 498 308 337 Other non-cash items 304 33 9 16 Pension costs for defined benefit schemes 96 105 Share-based payment costs 146 234 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 4,976 2,141 Dividend income from subsidiaries 973 1,494 Other impairment 855 1,161 Loss on business classified as held for sale 4 15 Profit from associates and joint ventures 192 248 Total 6,949 4,470 246 747 309 Notes to the financial statements 36.
Cash flow statement continued Change in operating assets Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 $million $million $million $million Decrease increase in derivative financial instruments 730 4,631 226 187 Decrease increase in debt securities, treasury bills and equity shares held at fair value through profit or loss 9,575 1,965 Decrease increase in loans and advances to banks and customers 20,979 271 Net decrease increase in pre-payments and accrued income 383 187 Net decrease increase in other assets 5,145 6,603 17 98 Total 36,812 13,657 209 89 Change in operating liabilities Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 $million $million $million $million Decrease increase in derivative financial instruments 304 2,650 961 131 Net decrease increase in deposits from banks, customer accounts, debt securities in issue, Hong Kong notes in circulation and short positions 69,958 51,273 585 392 Decrease increase in accruals and deferred income 198 1,417 18 9 Net increase in other liabilities 216 3,981 415 535 Total 70,244 59,321 57 265 37.
Cash and cash equivalents The following balances with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition have been identified by the Group as being cash and cash equivalents.
Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 $million $million $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 65,312 97,282 Less: restricted balances 9,112 10,073 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 10,280 7,495 Loans and advances to banks 18,946 31,204 Trading securities 3,002 3,962 Amounts owed by and due to subsidiary undertakings 20,517 17,583 Total 88,428 129,870 20,517 17,583 Restricted balances comprise minimum balances required to be held at central banks.
Capital commitments Capital expenditure approved by the directors but not provided for in these accounts amounted to: 2015 2014 $million $million Contracted 1 6 310 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 39.
Operating lease commitments 2015 2014 Premises Equipment Premises Equipment $million $million $million $million Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 282 3 317 3 Later than one year and less than five years 674 2 735 4 After five years 383 578 1,339 5 1,630 7 During the year $433 million 2014: $406 million was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases.
The Group leases various premises and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases as at 31 December 2015 is $116 million 2014: $144 million.
Contingent liabilities and commitments The table below shows the contract or underlying principal amounts and risk-weighted amounts of unmatured off-balance sheet transactions at the balance sheet date.
The contract or underlying principal amounts indicate the volume of business outstanding and do not represent amounts at risk.
2015 2014 $million $million Contingent liabilities Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 29,694 33,318 Other contingent liabilities 9,361 9,214 39,055 42,532 Commitments Documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 4,852 7,911 1 Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 530 539 1 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 1 One year and over 45,327 42,380 1 Less than one year 14,104 18,490 1 Unconditionally cancellable 123,036 142,601 187,849 211,921 1.
2014 balances have been restated The Groups share of contingent liabilities and commitments relating to joint ventures is $286 million 2014: $336 million.
Contingent liabilities Where the Group undertakes to make a payment on behalf of its customers for guarantees issued, such as for performance bonds or as irrevocable letters of credit as part of the Groups transaction banking business for which an obligation to make a payment has not arisen at thereporting date, those are included in these financial statements as contingent liabilities.
Other contingent liabilities primarily include revocable letters of credit and bonds issued on behalf of customers to customs officials, for bids oroffers and as shipping guarantees.
Commitments Where the Group has confirmed its intention to provide funds to a customer or on behalf of a customer in the form of loans, overdrafts, future guarantees, whether cancellable or not, or letters of credit, and the Group has not made payments at the balance sheet date, those instruments are included in these financial statements as commitments.
311 Notes to the financial statements 41.
Legal and regulatory matters The Group seeks to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, but may be subject to regulatory actions and investigations across our markets, the outcome of which are generally difficult to predict and can be material to the Group.
Further details on regulatory compliance, reviews, request for information, investigation and risk of fraud and other criminal acts are set out in pages 200 and 201 of the Risk and capital review.
In addition to these matters, the Group receives legal claims against it in a number of jurisdictions arising in the normal course of business.
The Group considers none of these claims as material.
Where appropriate, the Group recognises a provision for liabilities when it is probable that an outflow of economic resources embodying economic benefits will be required and for which a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation.
The uncertainties inherent in legal and regulatory matters affect the amount and timing of any potential outflows with respect to which provisions have been established.
Post-balance sheet events Tax On 8 July 2015, the UK government announced changes to tax rates.
These changes have been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date but take effect in future periods.
The changes were as follows: Corporation tax surcharge An 8 per cent corporation tax surcharge applies to UK profits of banks with effect from 1 January 2016.
Management estimates that the impact of this change will not be material to the Group UK bank levy A phased reduction in the rate at which the UK bank levy is charged on qualifying liabilities is introduced.
The current rates of 0.21 per cent for short-term liabilities and 0.105 per cent for long-term liabilities will be gradually reduced over the next six years.
The rates applicable from 1 January 2021 will be 0.10 per cent for short-term liabilities and 0.05 per cent for long-term liabilities.
In addition, the scope of the bank levy will be restricted to the balance sheet of UK operations only from 2021 onwards.
The restriction of scope is currently in the process of consultation 43.
Related party transactions Directors and officers Details of directors remuneration and interests in shares are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 116 to 132.
IAS 24 Related party disclosures requires the following additional information for key management compensation.
Key management comprises non-executive directors, executive directors of Standard Chartered PLC, the Court Directors of Standard Chartered Bank and the Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities PDMR of Standard Chartered PLC.
2015 2014 $million $million Salaries, allowances and benefits in kind 42 28 Pension contributions 3 9 Bonuses paid or receivable 1 Share-based payments 40 37 85 75 Transactions with directors and others As at 31 December 2015, the total amounts to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 the Act and the Listing Rules of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Limited HK Listing Rules about loans to directors were as follows: 2015 2014 Number $million Number $million Directors 1 3 6 The loan transaction provided to the director of Standard Chartered PLC was a connected transaction under Chapter 14A of the HK Listing Rules.
It was fully exempt as financial assistance under Rule 14A.
87 1, as it was provided in our ordinary and usual course of business and on normal commercial terms.
As at 31 December 2015, Standard Chartered Bank had created a charge over $74 million 2014: $68 million of cash assets in favour of the independent trustee of its employer-financed retirement benefit scheme.
Other than as disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts, there were no other transactions, arrangements or agreements outstanding for any director, connected person or officer of the Company which have to be disclosed under the Act, the rules of the UK Listing Authority or the HK Listing Rules.
Company The Company has received $627 million 2014: $633 million of interest income from Standard Chartered Bank.
The Company issues debt externally and lends proceeds to Group companies.
As at 31 December 2015, it had loans to and debt instruments issued by Standard Chartered Bank of $16,209 million 2014: $13,308 million, derivative financial assets of $639 million 2014: $865 million and $1,438 million derivative financial liabilities 2014: $477 million with Standard Chartered Bank, loans of $130 million 2014: $130 million to Standard Chartered Holdings Limited.
At 31 December 2015, it had loans to Standard Chartered International Holdings of $1,801 million 2014: $1,925 million.
312 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 43.
Related party transactions continued The Company has an agreement with Standard Chartered Bank that in the event of Standard Chartered Bank defaulting on its debt coupon interest payments, where the terms of such debt requires it, the Company shall issue shares as settlement for non-payment of the coupon interest.
Associate and joint ventures 2015 2014 Asia Asia China Bohai Commercial Clifford PT Bank China Bohai Commercial Clifford PT Bank 1 Bank Bank Capital Permata Bank Bank Capital Permata $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Assets Loans and advances 11 69 30 136 Debt securities 112 120 Derivative assets 18 6 18 Total assets 29 6 181 18 30 256 Liabilities Deposits 70 16 89 4 40 Derivative liabilities 3 1 Total liabilities 73 16 90 4 40 Loan commitments and other guarantees 50 50 1.
Restatement of prior year Earnings per share On 3 November 2015, the Group announced the issue of 728,432,451 new ordinary shares by way of rights to qualifying shareholders at 465 pence per share.
The issue was made as two shares for every seven held on 18 November 2015.
As required by International Accounting Standard 33 Earnings per Share IAS 33 the Group has adjusted the 2014 basic, diluted, normalised basic and normalised diluted earnings per share, for the bonus element included within the rights issue.
As reported Restatement in 2014 Adjustment Restated cents factor cents Basic earnings per ordinary share 102.2 1.051 97.3 Diluted earnings per ordinary share 101.6 1.051 96.7 Normalised basic earnings per ordinary share 145.9 1.051 138.9 Normalised diluted earnings per ordinary share 145.1 1.051 138.1 Dividend per share The dividend per share amounts in the table below have been adjusted for the bonus element included within the 2015 rights issue in line with the restatement of prior period earnings per share amounts required by IAS 33.
As reported Restatement in 2014 Adjustment Restated cents factor cents Dividend per share Final dividend 2013 86.00 1.051 81.9 Dividend per share Interim dividend 2014 28.80 1.051 27.4 Dividend per share Final dividend 2014 86.00 1.051 81.9 Dividend per share Interim dividend 2015 14.40 1.051 13.7 313 Notes to the financial statements 45.
Standard Chartered PLC Company Classification and measurement of financial instruments 2015 2014 Derivatives held Amortised Derivatives held Amortised for hedging cost Total for hedging cost Total Financial assets $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivatives 639 639 865 865 Debt securities 12,309 12,309 12,309 12,309 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 20,517 20,517 17,583 17,583 Total 639 32,826 33,465 865 29,892 30,757 Derivatives held for hedging are held at fair value, are classified as Level 2 and the counterparty is Standard Chartered Bank.
Debt securities comprise corporate securities issued by Standard Chartered Bank with a fair value of $12,309 million 2014: $12,309 million.
In 2015 and 2014, amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings have a fair value equal to carrying value.
2015 2014 Derivatives held Amortised Derivatives held Amortised for hedging cost Total for hedging cost Total Financial liabilities $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivatives 1,438 1,438 477 477 Debt securities in issue 17,293 17,293 18,638 18,638 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 13,736 13,736 14,177 14,177 Total 1,438 31,029 32,467 477 32,815 33,292 Derivatives held for hedging are held at fair value, classified as Level 2 and the counterparty is Standard Chartered Bank.
The fair value of debt securities in issue is $17,293 million 2014: $18,638 million.
The fair value of subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds is $12,920 million 2014: $13,774 million.
Derivative financial instruments 2015 2014 Notional Notional principal principal amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities Derivatives $million $million $million $million $million $million Foreign exchange derivative contracts: Currency swaps 10,528 58 1,426 13,084 338 464 Interest rate derivative contracts: Swaps 14,748 581 12 12,750 527 13 Total 25,276 639 1,438 25,834 865 477 Credit risk Maximum exposure to credit risk 2015 2014 $million $million Derivative financial instruments 639 865 Debt securities 12,309 12,309 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 20,517 17,583 Total 33,465 30,757 In 2014 and 2015, amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings were neither past due nor impaired: the Company had no individually impaired loans.
In 2014 and 2015, the Company had no impaired debt securities.
The debt securities held by the Group are issued by Standard Chartered Bank, a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking with credit ratings of A A Aa2.
314 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 45.
Standard Chartered PLC Company continued Liquidity risk The following table analyses the residual contractual maturity of the assets and liabilities of the Company on a discounted basis: 2015 Between Between Between three Between nine Between Between More than one month months six months months one year two years five years One month and three and and nine and and and and or less months six months months one year two years five years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Assets Derivative financial instruments 13 19 20 587 639 Investment securities 1,300 2,850 1,698 6,461 12,309 Amount owed by subsidiary undertakings 293 584 2,779 506 2,958 3,950 8,663 784 20,517 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 28,381 28,381 Total assets 293 584 4,092 506 2,958 6,819 10,381 36,213 61,846 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 339 242 384 473 1,438 Senior debt 1,913 1,371 3,956 6,800 3,253 17,293 Other liabilities 202 56 76 33 23 20 410 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 1,247 1,420 11,069 13,736 Total liabilities 202 56 1,989 1,743 5,468 8,624 14,795 32,877 Net liquidity gap 91 528 2,103 506 1,215 1,351 1,757 21,418 28,969 2014 Between Between Between three Between nine Between Between More than one month months six months months one year two years five years One month and three and and nine and and and and or less months six months months one year two years five years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Assets Derivative financial instruments 24 5 39 65 732 865 Investment securities 1,250 11,059 12,309 Amount owed bysubsidiary undertakings 78 21 1,500 2,692 3,783 7,306 2,203 17,583 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 24,881 24,881 Total assets 78 21 1,524 2,697 3,822 8,621 38,875 55,638 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 161 83 233 477 Senior debt 2,015 2,572 3,491 8,007 2,553 18,638 Other liabilities 208 43 89 48 87 475 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 1,242 12,935 14,177 Total liabilities 208 43 2,104 2,781 3,574 9,569 15,488 33,767 Net liquidity gap 130 22 580 84 248 948 23,387 21,871 315 Notes to the financial statements 45.
Standard Chartered PLC Company continued Financial liabilities excluding derivative financial instruments on an undiscounted basis 2015 Between Between Between three Between nine Between Between More than one month months six months months one year two years five years One month and three and and nine and and and and or less months six months months one year two years five years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Debt securities in issue 70 21 1,999 46 1,537 4,259 7,421 4,317 19,670 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 150 57 79 207 83 1,822 3,146 17,429 22,973 Other liabilities 202 56 76 33 23 4 394 Total liabilities 422 134 2,154 253 1,653 6,104 10,571 21,746 43,037 2014 Between Between Between three Between nine Between Between More than one month months six months months one year two years five years One month and three and and nine and and and and or less months six months months one year two years five years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Debt securities in issue 75 23 2,107 48 2,803 3,832 8,640 3,664 21,192 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 150 69 72 207 91 590 2,916 18,790 22,885 Other liabilities 208 43 80 39 89 459 Total liabilities 433 135 2,259 255 2,933 4,422 11,645 22,454 44,536 Derivative financial instruments on an undiscounted basis Derivative financial instruments include those net settled derivative contracts in a net liability position, together with the pay leg of gross settled contracts regardless of whether the overall contract is in an asset or liability position.
The receiving leg is not shown in this table and as a result the derivative amounts in this table are inflated by their exclusion.
2015 Between Between Between three Between nine Between Between More than one month months six months months one year two years five years One month and three and and nine and and and and or less months six months months one year two years five years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivative financial instruments 59 25 94 102 108 424 1,218 2,338 4,368 2014 Between Between Between three Between nine Between Between More than one month months six months months one year two years five years One month and three and and nine and and and and or less months six months months one year two years five years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivative financial instruments 60 31 92 96 104 468 1,498 2,422 4,771 316 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 46.
Related undertakings of the Group In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, a full list of related undertakings, the country of incorporation and the effective percentage of equity owned, as at 31 December 2015 is disclosed below.
Refer to note 23 for undertakings that have a significant contribution to the Groups net profit or net assets.
Subsidiaries Proportion Country of of shares Name Incorporation Description of shares held % BWA Dependents Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Chartered Financial Holdings Limited United Kingdom 5.00 Ordinary shares 100 1.00 Preference shares 100 Compass Estates Limited in liquidation United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 FinVentures UK Limited United Kingdom $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Harrison Lovegrove & Co. Limited in liquidation United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Aircraft Leasing UK Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 SC Secretaries Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 SC Leaseco Limited United Kingdom $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 SC Overseas Investments Limited United Kingdom AUD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 SC Transport Leasing 1 LTD United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 SC Transport Leasing 2 Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 SCMB Overseas Limited United Kingdom 0.10 Ordinary shares 100 1 St. Helens Nominees Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 99 Stanchart Nominees Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered CT Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered GCT Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Africa Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered APR Limited United Kingdom $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank United Kingdom $0.01 Non-Cumulative Irredeemable 100 Preference shares $5.00 Non-Cumulative Redeemable 100 1 Preference shares $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Capital Markets Limited in liquidation United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Corporate Finance Canada Limited inliquidation United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Corporate Finance Eurasia Limited inliquidation United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Debt Trading Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Equitor Limited in liquidation United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Financial Investments Limited inliquidation United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary A shares 100 Standard Chartered FURBS Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Health Trustee UK Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 1 Standard Chartered Holdings Limited United Kingdom $2.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered I H Limited United Kingdom $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Lease Trustee Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Leasing UK 2 Limited United Kingdom $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Leasing UK 3 Limited United Kingdom $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Leasing UK Limited United Kingdom $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Masterbrand Licensing Limited United Kingdom $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered NEA Limited United Kingdom $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 1 Standard Chartered Nominees Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Overseas Holdings Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Portfolio Trading UK Limited in liquidation United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Receivables UK Limited in liquidation United Kingdom $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Securities Africa Holdings Limited United Kingdom $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Trustees UK Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered UK Holdings Limited United Kingdom 10.00 Ordinary shares 100 2 The SC Transport Leasing Partnership 1 United Kingdom Partnership interest 100 2 The SC Transport Leasing Partnership 2 United Kingdom Partnership interest 100 2 The SC Transport Leasing Partnership 3 United Kingdom Partnership interest 100 2 The SC Transport Leasing Partnership 4 United Kingdom Partnership interest 100 3 The BW Leasing Partnership 1 LP United Kingdom Partnership interest 99.9 3 The BW Leasing Partnership 2 LP United Kingdom Partnership interest 99.9 317 Notes to the financial statements 46.
Related undertakings of the Group continued Proportion Country of of shares Name Incorporation Description of shares held % 3 The BW Leasing Partnership 3 LP United Kingdom Partnership interest 99.9 3 The BW Leasing Partnership 4 LP United Kingdom Partnership interest 99.9 3 The BW Leasing Partnership 5 LP United Kingdom Partnership interest 99.9 3 The New Herald LLP United Kingdom Partnership interest 99.9 3 The New Joy Leasing LLP United Kingdom Partnership interest 99.9 3 The Ocean Master LLP United Kingdom Partnership interest 99.9 3 The Tooley Investment LLP United Kingdom Partnership interest 99.9 Standard Chartered Bank Angola S. A. Angola AOK4,825.00 Ordinary shares 60 Standard Chartered Grindlays Pty Limited Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Botswana Insurance Agency Proprietary Botswana BWP1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Limited Standard Chartered Bank Botswana Investment Services Pty Limited Botswana BWP1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Botswana Limited Botswana BWP1.00 Ordinary shares 75.827 4 Standard Chartered Botswana Education Trust Botswana 100 Standard Chartered Botswana Nominees Proprietary Limited Botswana BWP Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Brasil S. A. Banco fide Investimento Brazil BRL Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Participaes E Assessoria Economica Ltda Brazil BRL0.51 Common shares 100 Standard Chartered Finance Brunei Bhd Brunei Darussalam BND1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Cameroon S. A. Cameroon XAF10,000.00 shares 100 Standard Chartered Canada Limited Canada CAD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 SCB Investment Holding Company Limited Cayman Islands $0.01 A Ordinary shares 100 Sirat Holdings Limited Cayman Islands $0.01 Ordinary shares 91 $0.01 Preference shares 66.7 Standard Chartered Asia Real Estate Fund Company Limited Cayman Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Corporate Private Equity Cayman Limited Cayman Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered International Partners Cayman Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Principal Finance Cayman Limited Cayman Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Private Equity Cayman Limited Cayman Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Saadiq Certificate Company Limited Cayman Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Saadiq Mudarib Company Limited Cayman Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 5 Sunflower Cayman SPC Cayman Islands $1.00 Management shares 100 Cerulean Investments LP Cayman Islands Partnership interest 100 Gettysburg Investments LP Cayman Islands Partnership interest 100 Inner Mongolia Helingeer Standard Chartered Village Bank Limited China CNY1.00 Ordinary shares 100 SCL Consulting Shanghai Co. Ltd In Liquidation China $ Ordinary shares 100 Scope International China Co. Ltd. China $ Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank China Limited China CNY Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Corporate Advisory Co. Ltd China $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Trading Shanghai Limited China $15,000,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 Sociedad Fiduciaria Extebandes S. A. in liquidation Colombia COP1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Cte dIvoire SA Cote d'Ivoire XOF100,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 American Express International Finance Corp. N. V. in liquidation Curaao $1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 Ricanex Participations N. V. In Liquidation Curaao $1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Lease France SAS France 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Gambia Limited Gambia GMD1.00 Ordinary shares 74.9 GHC Ordinary shares 69.4 GHC5,200.00 Preference shares 87.1 Standard Chartered Ghana Nominees Limited Ghana GHS Ordinary shares 100 Birdsong Limited Guernsey 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Nominees One Limited Guernsey 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Nominees Two Limited Guernsey 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Songbird Limited Guernsey 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Secretaries Guernsey Limited Guernsey 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Trust Guernsey Limited Guernsey 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Double Wings Limited Hong Kong HKD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 GE Capital Hong Kong Limited in liquidation Hong Kong HKD10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Grimes Golden Limited in liquidation Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 $ Ordinary shares 100 Horsford Nominees Limited Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 318 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 46.
Related undertakings of the Group continued Proportion Country of of shares Name Incorporation Description of shares held % Kozagi Limited Hong Kong HKD10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Larne Limited In Liquidation Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 Leopard Hong Kong Limited in liquidation Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Majestic Legend Limited Hong Kong HKD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Acacia Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Amaryllis Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Amethyst Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Ametrine Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Angelite Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Apollo Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Beryl Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Carnelian Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Emerald Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Flax Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Gloxinia Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Hazel Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Honor Shipping Limited Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Ilex Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Iridot Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Kunzite Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Leasing Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Mimosa Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Moonstone Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Peridot Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Ruby Shipping Limited in liquidation Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Sapphire Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Splendor Shipping Limited Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Tourmaline Shipping Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Ori Private Limited Hong Kong $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 $1.00 A Ordinary shares 90.8 Prime Financial Limited In Liquidation Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 Rivendell Private Limited Hong Kong $1.00 A Ordinary shares 84.8 S C Learning Limited Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Asia Limited Hong Kong HKD Deferred shares 100 HKD Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong HKD A Ordinary shares 100 HKD B Ordinary shares 100 $ Preference shares 100 Standard Chartered Global Trading Investments Limited Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Investment Services Limited Hong Kong HKD10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Leasing Group Limited Hong Kong $ Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered PF Real Estate Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong HKD10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Private Equity Limited Hong Kong HKD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 HKD Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Private Equity Managers Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Securities Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Sherwood HK Limited Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Trade Support HK Limited Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Trust Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong HKD10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Union Town Limited Hong Kong HKD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Scope International Private Limited India INR10.00 Equity shares 100 St Helen's Nominees India Private Limited India INR10.00 Equity shares 99 Standard Chartered India Modeling and Analytics Centre Private India INR10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Limited Standard Chartered Finance Limited India INR10.00 Ordinary shares 98.7 319 Notes to the financial statements 46.
Related undertakings of the Group continued Proportion Country of of shares Name Incorporation Description of shares held % Standard Chartered Investments and Loans India Limited India INR10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Private Equity Advisory India Private Limited India INR1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Securities India Limited India INR10.00 Ordinary shares 100 PT Standard Chartered Securities Indonesia Indonesia IDR100,000,000.00 Ordinary shares 99 PT.
Price Solutions Indonesia Indonesia $100.00 Ordinary shares 100 Inishbrophy Leasing Limited Ireland 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Inishcannon Leasing Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Inishcorky Leasing Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Inishcrean Leasing Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Inishdasky Leasing Limited in liquidation Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Inishdawson Leasing Limited Ireland 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Inisherkin Leasing Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Inishgort Leasing Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Inishilra Leasing Limited in liquidation Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Inishlynch Leasing Limited Ireland 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Inishmullen Leasing Limited in liquidation Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Inishoo Leasing Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Inishquirk Leasing Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Inishroe Leasing Limited in liquidation Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Inishtubrid Leasing Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Nightjar Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke 7006 Leasing Limited Ireland 1.25 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke 717 Leasing Limited in liquidation Ireland 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 1 Limited Ireland 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 2 Limited Ireland 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 3 Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 4 Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 5 Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 6 Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 7 Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 8 Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 9 Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 10 Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 11 Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Aircraft Leasing 12 Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Aircraft Leasing Holdings Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Alpha Limited Ireland 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Capital Limited Ireland 1.25 Ordinary shares 100 $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Capital Shannon Limited Ireland 1.25 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Nominees Limited In liquidation Ireland 1.25 Ordinary shares 100 Skua Limited Ireland $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Group Limited Isle of Man $0.01 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Assurance Limited Isle of Man $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 $1.00 Redeemable Preference 100 shares Standard Chartered Insurance Limited Isle of Man $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Securities Japan Preparation Limited Japan JPY50,000 Ordinary shares 100 Ocean Horizon Holdings East Limited Jersey $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Ocean Horizon Holdings West Limited Jersey $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 SCB Nominees CI Limited Jersey $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 1 Standard Chartered Funding Jersey Limited Jersey 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited Kenya KES5.00 Ordinary shares 74.3 KES5.00 Preference shares 100 Standard Chartered Securities Kenya Limited Kenya KES10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Financial Services Limited Kenya KES20.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Insurance Agency Limited Kenya KES100.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Investment Services Limited Kenya KES1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Limited Kenya KES20.00 Ordinary shares 100 320 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 46.
Related undertakings of the Group continued Proportion Country of of shares Name Incorporation Description of shares held % Standard Chartered Management Services Limited in liquidation Kenya KES20.00 Ordinary shares 100 Resolution Alliance Korea Ltd Korea, Republic of KRW5,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Korea Limited Korea, Republic of KRW5,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Private Equity Korea II Korea, Republic of KRW1,000,000.00 Ordinary shares 52.2 Standard Chartered Private Equity Managers Korea Limited Korea, Republic of KRW5,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Securities Korea Limited Korea, Republic of KRW5,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Metropolitan Holdings SAL Lebanon $10.00 Ordinary A shares 100 Standard Chartered Financial Services Luxembourg S. A. Luxembourg 25.00 Ordinary shares 100 in liquidation Amphissa Corporation Sdn Bhd Malaysia RM1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Cartaban Malaya Nominees Sdn Berhad Malaysia RM10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Cartaban Nominees Asing Sdn Bhd Malaysia RM1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Cartaban Nominees Tempatan Sdn Bhd Malaysia RM1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Golden Maestro Sdn Bhd Malaysia RM1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Morganite Shipping Limited Malaysia $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Moss Shipping Limited Malaysia $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Tanzanite Shipping Limited Malaysia $ Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Leasing Labuan 2 Berhad Malaysia $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Leasing Labuan 3 Berhad Malaysia $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Leasing Labuan Pte Limited Malaysia $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Popular Ambience Sdn Bhd Malaysia RM1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Price Solutions Sdn Bhd Malaysia RM1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 Resolution Alliance Sdn Bhd Malaysia RM1.00 Ordinary shares 91 SCBMB Trustee Berhad Malaysia RM10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Scope International M Sdn Bhd Malaysia RM1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad Malaysia RM0.10 Irredeemable Cumulative 100 Preference shares RM1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Saadiq Berhad Malaysia RM1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Alysse Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Amandier Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Ambroisee Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Angelica Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Aquamarine Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Aventurine Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Buxus Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Celsie Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Citrine Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Dahlia Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Dittany Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Dorado Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Jessamine Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Lilac Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Lolite Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Obsidian Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Pissenlet Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Poseidon Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Protea Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Quartz Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Remora Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Turquoise Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Zeus Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Marina Zircon Shipping Limited Marshall Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Mauritius Limited Mauritius $10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Financial Holdings Mauritius $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Private Equity Mauritius II Limited Mauritius $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Private Equity Mauritius Limited Mauritius $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 $ Redeemable Preference shares 100 Standard Chartered Private Equity Mauritius lll Limited Mauritius $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 321 Notes to the financial statements 46.
Related undertakings of the Group continued Proportion Country of of shares Name Incorporation Description of shares held % Subcontinental Equities Limited Mauritius $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Mozambique, S. A. Mozambique $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited Nepal NPR100.00 Ordinary shares 75 Pembroke B717 Holdings B. V. Netherlands 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Funding B. V. Netherlands 100.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Holland B. V. Netherlands 450.00 Ordinary shares 100 Pembroke Thai Aircraft ll B. V. Netherlands 100.00 Ordinary shares 100 Smart Application Investment B. V. Netherlands 45.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Holdings Africa B. V. Netherlands 4.50 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Holdings Asia Pacific B. V. Netherlands 4.50 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Holdings International B. V. Netherlands 4.50 Ordinary A Shares 100 4.50 Ordinary B Shares 100 4.50 Ordinary C Shares 100 4.50 Ordinary D Shares 100 4.50 Ordinary E Shares 100 4.50 Ordinary F Shares 100 4.50 Ordinary G Shares 100 Standard Chartered MB Holdings B. V. Netherlands 4.50 Ordinary shares 100 Cherroots Nigeria Limited Nigeria NGN1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Limited Nigeria NGN1.00 Irredeemable Non 100 Cumulative Preference shares NGN1.00 Ordinary shares 100 NGN1.00 Redeemable Preference 100 shares Standard Chartered Capital & Advisory Nigeria Limited Nigeria NGN1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Nominees Nigeria Limited Nigeria NGN1.00 Ordinary shares 100 1 Price Solution Pakistan Private Limited Pakistan PKR10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Pakistan Limited Pakistan PKR10.00 Ordinary shares 99 Standard Chartered Leasing Limited Pakistan PKR10.00 Ordinary shares 86.5 7 Standard Chartered Modaraba Pakistan PKR10.00 Modaraba Certificates 20 Standard Chartered Services of Pakistan Private Limited Pakistan PKR10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Banco Standard Chartered en Liquidacion in liquidation Peru $75.133 Ordinary shares 100 Assurance Solutions Insurance Agency Inc. Philippines PHP1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Price Solutions Philippines, Inc. Philippines PHP1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Nominees Western Samoa Limited Samoa $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Capital Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia SAR10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Sierra Leone Limited Sierra Leone SLL1.00 Ordinary shares 80.7 Marina Aquata Shipping Pte.
Ltd. Singapore $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Aruana Shipping Pte.
Ltd. Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Aster Shipping Pte.
Ltd. Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 Marina Cobia Shipping Pte.
Ltd. Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Daffodil Shipping Pte.
Ltd. Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 Marina Fatmarini Shipping Pte.
Ltd. Singapore $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Frabandari Shipping Pte.
Ltd. Singapore $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Freesia Shipping Pte.
Ltd. Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 Marina Gerbera Shipping Pte.
Ltd. Singapore $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Mars Shipping Pte.
Ltd. Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 Marina Mercury Shipping Pte.
Ltd. Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 Marina Opah Shipping Pte.
Ltd. Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Partawati Shipping Pte.
Ltd. Singapore $ Ordinary shares 100 Marina Poise Shipping Pte.
Ltd. Singapore $ Ordinary shares 100 Price Solutions Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 Prime Financial Holdings Limited Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 $ Ordinary shares 100 322 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 46.
Related undertakings of the Group continued Proportion Country of of shares Name Incorporation Description of shares held % Raffles Nominees Pte.
Limited Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 SC2 Investments Singapore Private Limited Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 SCM Real Estate Singapore Private Limited Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 SCTS Capital Pte.
Ltd Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 SCTS Management Pte.
Ltd. Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered 1996 Limited Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered 2000 Limited Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Singapore Limited Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 SGD Preference shares 100 Standard Chartered Holdings Singapore Private Limited Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered IL&FS Management Singapore Pte.
Limited Singapore $1.00 Ordinary shares 50 Standard Chartered Investments Singapore Private Limited Singapore $ Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Nominees Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered PF Managers Pte.
Limited Singapore $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Private Equity Singapore Pte.
Ltd Singapore $ Ordinary shares 100 $ Redeemable Preference shares 100 Standard Chartered Private Equity Managers Singapore Pte.
Ltd Singapore $ Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Real Estate Investment Singapore I Private Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Limited Standard Chartered Real Estate Investment Singapore II Private Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Limited Standard Chartered Real Estate Investment Singapore III Private Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Limited Standard Chartered Real Estate Investment Singapore IV Private Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Limited Standard Chartered Real Estate Investment Singapore V Private Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Limited Standard Chartered Real Estate Investment Singapore VI Private Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Limited Standard Chartered Real Estate Investment Singapore VII Private Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Limited Standard Chartered Real Estate Investment Singapore VIII Private Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Limited Standard Chartered Real Estate Investment Holdings Singapore Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Private Limited Standard Chartered Securities Singapore Pte.
Limited Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Trust Singapore Limited Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 CMB Nominees Proprietary Limited South Africa ZAR1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Nominees South Africa Proprietary Limited RF South Africa ZAR Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Switzerland S. A. in liquidation Switzerland CHF1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 CHF100.00 Participation Capital 100 shares Kwang Hua Mocatta Ltd. Taiwan in liquidation Taiwan TWD1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Taiwan Limited Taiwan TWD10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Life Insurance Agency Company Taiwan TWD10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Taiwan Standard Chartered Insurance Agency Company Taiwan TWD10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Tanzania Limited Tanzania, United TZS1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 Republic of Standard Chartered Tanzania Nominees Limited Tanzania, United TZS1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 Republic of Standard Chartered Thai Asset Management Co. Ltd Thailand THB100.00 Statutory shares 100 Standard Chartered Thailand Company Limited Thailand THB10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Thai Public Company Limited Thailand THB10.00 Ordinary shares 99.9 Thai Exclusive Leasing Company Limited Thailand THB10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Yatirim Bankasi Turk Anonim Sirketi Turkey TRL0.10 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Limited Uganda UGS1,000.00 Ordinary shares 100 SC Studios, LLC United States $1.00 Membership Interest shares 100 StanChart Securities International, Inc. United States $0.01 Common shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank International Americas Limited United States $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Capital Management Jersey, LLC United States $ Ordinary shares 100 323 Notes to the financial statements 46.
Related undertakings of the Group continued Proportion Country of of shares Name Incorporation Description of shares held % Standard Chartered Holdings Inc. United States $100.00 Common shares 100 Standard Chartered International USA Ltd. United States $100.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Overseas Investment, Inc. United States $10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Securities North America Inc. United States $0.01 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Trade Services Corporation United States $0.01 Common shares 100 Standard Chartered Uruguay Representacion S. A. in liquidation Uruguay UYU1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Vietnam Limited Vietnam VND Charter Capital shares 100 California Rose Limited Virgin Islands, British $1.00 Ordinary shares 90.5 Earnest Range Limited Virgin Islands, British $1.00 Ordinary shares 90.5 New Group Investments Limited Virgin Islands, British $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Sky Favour Investments Limited Virgin Islands, British $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Sky Harmony Holdings Limited Virgin Islands, British $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Zambia Plc Zambia ZMW0.25 Ordinary shares 90 Standard Chartered Zambia Nominees Limited Zambia ZMK2.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Zambia Securities Services Nominees Limited Zambia ZMK1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Asset Management Limited Zimbabwe $0.001 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Bank Zimbabwe Limited Zimbabwe $1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Standard Chartered Nominees Zimbabwe Private Limited Zimbabwe $2.00 Ordinary shares 100 Associates Proportion Country of of shares Name Incorporation Description of shares held % 8 China Bohai Bank Co. Ltd China CNY Ordinary shares 19.99 FAI Limited Mauritius $1.00 Ordinary shares 25 Seychelles International Mercantile Banking Corporation Limited Seychelles SCR1,000.00 Ordinary shares 22 9 Clifford Capital Pte.
Ltd Singapore $ Ordinary shares 9.9 MCashback Limited in liquidation United Kingdom 0.01 Ordinary shares 31.7 8 Asia Commercial Bank Vietnam VND10,000.00 Ordinary shares 15 Joint Ventures Proportion Country of of shares Name Incorporation Description of shares held % 10 PT Bank Permata Tbk Indonesia IDR125.00 B shares 44.6 10 Canas Leasing Limited Ireland US$1 Ordinary shares 50 10 Elviria Leasing Limited Ireland US$1 Ordinary shares 33.3 Significant investment holdings Proportion Country of of shares Name Incorporation Description of shares held % Abacus Eight Limited Cayman Islands A shares 24.5 Abacus Nine Limited Cayman Islands A shares 24.5 Abacus Seven Limited Cayman Islands A shares 24.5 Abacus Ten Limited Cayman Islands A shares 31.2 Asia Trading Holdings Limited Cayman Islands $0.01 Ordinary shares 50 ATSC Cayman Holdco Limited Cayman Islands $0.01 A Ordinary shares 5.3 $0.01 B Ordinary shares 100 Etonkids Educational Group Limited Cayman Islands $0.001 Series A Preferred shares 100 Greathorse Chemical Limited Cayman Islands KYD1.00 Ordinary shares 27.7 Standard Chartered IL&FS Asia Infrastructure Cayman Limited Cayman Islands $0.01 Ordinary shares 50 Standard Chartered IL&FS Asia Infrastructure Growth Fund Company Ltd. Cayman Islands $1.00 Ordinary shares 50 Standard Chartered IL&FS Asia Infrastructure Growth Fund LP Cayman Islands Partnership interest 38.6 Guangdong Aiyingdao Children Departmental Store Co. Ltd China CNY1.00 Common shares 20.2 Jin Li Realty Shanghai Co. Ltd. China Registered Capital 45 Ningbo Xingxin Real Estate Development Co. Ltd China Registered Capital 36 Shu Li Realty Shanghai Limited China Registered Capital 45 Yunnan Golden Shiner Property Development Co. Ltd. China Registered Capital 50 Fast Great Investment Limited Hong Kong HKD1.00 Ordinary shares 28 Origin Direct Asia Limited Hong Kong HKD1.00 Ordinary shares 32 Joyville Shapoorji Housing Private Limited India INR10.00 Common Equity shares 25.8 324 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Financial statements and notes 46.
Related undertakings of the Group continued Proportion Country of of shares Name Incorporation Description of shares held % INR10.00 A Ordinary shares 50 Mahindra Homes Private Limited India Privi Organics Limited India INR10.00 B Ordinary shares 100 INR10.00 Compulsorily Convertible 100 Preference shares INR10.00 Ordinary shares 24.1 Omni Centre Pte.
Ltd. Indonesia $ Redeemable Convertible 100 Preference shares PT Travira Air Indonesia IDR1.00 Ordinary shares 30 Al-Jazeera Agricultural Company PSC Jordan JOD1.00 Ordinary shares 33.1 Daiyang Metal Company Ltd Korea, Republic of KRW500 Common shares 23.1 Convertible Preference shares 100 Fountain Valley PFV Limited Korea, Republic of KRW5,000.00 Ordinary shares 47.3 Kolon Water Korea, Republic of KRW5,000 Ordinary shares 35 KRW5,000 Redeemable Convertible 100 Preference shares Kolon Water & Energy Korea, Republic of KRW5,000 Ordinary shares 35 KRW5,000 Redeemable Convertible 100 Preference shares Samyang Packaging Korea, Republic of KRW5,000.00 Ordinary shares 22 Smoothie King Korea Inc Korea, Republic of KRW5,000 Ordinary shares 20.3 Standard Chartered Private Equity Korea III Korea, Republic of KRW1,000,000.00 Ordinary shares 31 West Point PFV Co. Ltd. Korea, Republic of KRW50,000.00 Common shares 50 House Network SDN BHD Malaysia RM1.00 Ordinary shares 25 Origin Fruit Direct B. V. Netherlands 2.27 Ordinary shares 32 GZ Industries Limited Nigeria NGN1.00 Ordinary shares 37 Crystal Jade Group Holdings Pte Ltd Singapore $1.00 Ordinary shares 42.3 Interplex Holdings Ltd Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 29.7 MMI Technoventures Pte Ltd Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 50 Polaris Limited Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 25.8 Afrifresh Group Proprietary Limited South Africa ZAR1.00 Ordinary shares 45.1 Loc Troi Group Joint Stock Company Vietnam VND10,000.00 Ordinary shares 34.4 1.
Directly held by parent company of the Group 2.
These entities have the same registered address of 1 Basinghall Avenue, London, EC2V 5DD United Kingdom.
These partnerships are included within the consolidated financial statements in accordance with note 1 h. Consequently, they have taken advantage of the exemption within the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 regulation7 from filing annual financial statements 3.
These entities have the same registered address of 1 Basinghall Avenue, London EC2V 5DD United Kingdom.
These partnerships are not included within the consolidated financial statements because the Group indirectly controls the General Partners, but its management role is limited to defined administrative functions over which it has no discretion.
Copies of the latest financial statements will be filed with Companies House 4.
No share capital by virtue of being a trust 5.
Not consolidated because the Group does not actively manage the funds and activities are limited to finding funds to market.
As the entity does not invest on its own account the Group gets no benefit and suffers no risk from the investments 6.
Not consolidated because the Group does not control the entity by virtue of the shareholder agreement with Orix Leasing Malaysia Bhd 7.
Included within the consolidated financial statements in accordance with note 1 h as the Group wholly controls the managing entity, Standard Chartered Services of Pakistan Private Limited 8.
B oth are considered to be associates as described in note 23 9.
Accounted for as an associate because the Group has significant influence over the management and their financial and operational policies through our representation on their board 10.
Joint management is based on significant influence over the management and their financial and operational policies derived from the joint venture agreements 325 Supplementary information Supplementary information Supplementary financial information 328 Supplementary people information 343 Supplementary sustainability information 345 Shareholder information 349 Major awards 2015 351 Glossary 353 Index 357
