SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Financial information 91 AIFMD Disclosures Report on remuneration and quantitative remuneration disclosure The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the AIFMD requires certain disclosures to be made with regard to the remuneration policy of the Companys AIFM which can be found within the Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 55.
Leverage The Company may employ leverage and borrow cash in accordance with its stated investment policy or investment strategy.
The use of borrowings and leverage has attendant risks and can, in certain circumstances, substantially increase the adverse impact to which the Companys investment portfolio may be subject to.
For the purposes of this disclosure, leverage is any method by which the Companys exposure is increased, whether through borrowing of cash or securities, or leverage embedded in foreign exchange forward contracts or by any other means.
The AIFMD requires that each leverage ratio be expressed as the ratio between a Companys exposure and its NAV, and prescribes two required methodologies, the gross methodology and the commitment methodology as set out in AIFMD Level 2 Implementation Guidance, for calculating such exposure.
Using the methodologies prescribed under the AIFMD, the leverage of the Company is detailed in the table below: Commitment leverage as Gross leverage as at 31 January 2015 at 31 January 2015 Leverage ratio 1.05 1.05 It should be noted that from a commercial perspective, the most relevant measures of leverage are considered to be the loan-tovalue LTV ratio and net gearing.
At 31 January 2015, the Companys LTV ration was nil, compared with a maximum covenant of 30% contained in the loan facility.
In addition the Company had no net gearing as cash balances outweighed the subordinated convertible debt.
Other risk disclosures The risk disclosures relating to risk framework and risk profile of the Company are set out in the Risk section of the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 31 and in note 26 to the notes to the financial statements on pages 83 to 90.
Pre investment disclosures The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that material changes to this information be disclosed in the annual report of the AIF.
An investor report relating to AIFMD Article 23 Supplemental Disclosures, setting out information on the Companys investment strategy and policies, leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, management, fees, conflicts of interest and other shareholder information is available on the Companys website at www.
There have been no material changes to this information requiring disclosure.
