STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTICE OF MEETING THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take you should consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 immediately.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your ordinary shares in Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC, please forward this document and the accompanying form of proxy as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was or is being effected for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the ninetieth Annual General Meeting of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC will be held at 11.00am on Wednesday 30 March 2016 at Woolgate Exchange, 25 Basinghall Street, London EC2V 5HA for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS: 1.
T o approve the Companys accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 together with the reports of the directors and auditor thereon.
To approve the report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2015.
To declare a final dividend of 15.87p per ordinary share.
To re-elect Mr A T Copple as a director.
To re-elect Mrs J F fide Moller as a director.
To re-elect Mr R W Jewson as a director.
To re-elect Mr J Reeve as a director.
To elect Dr L R Sherratt as a director.
To re-elect Mr D G C Webster as a director.
To re-appoint the auditor and to authorise the audit committee to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions: ORDINARY RESOLUTION: 11.
T hat the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate maximum nominal amount of 1,671,819, being approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 23 February 2016, provided that: i t he authority granted shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2017 but may be revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting and may be renewed by the Company in general meeting: and ii t he said authority shall allow and enable the directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares and grant Rights in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if that authority had not expired.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 51
