STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Report, the Report on Directors Remuneration and the the financial statements, prepared in accordance with financial statements in accordance with applicable law the applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair and regulations.
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and Company law requires the directors to prepare financial the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development statements for each financial year.
Under that law the and performance of the business and the position of the directors are required to prepare the financial statements in Company, together with a description of the principal accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless The UK Corporate Governance Code also requires Directors they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of balanced and understandable.
In order to reach a conclusion the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial on this matter, the Board has requested that the Audit statements, the directors are required to: Committee advise on whether it considers that the Annual Report and Accounts fulfils these requirements.
The process select suitable accounting policies in accordance by which the Committee has reached these conclusions is set with IAS8: Accounting Policies, Changes in out in the Audit Committees report on pages 27 and 28.
As Accounting Estimates and Errors, and then apply a result, the Board has concluded that the Annual Report for these consistently: the year ended 31 December 2015, taken as a whole, is fair, present information, including accounting policies, balanced and understandable and provides the information in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys comparable and understandable information: performance, business model and strategy.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and On behalf of the Board state that the Company has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
John Reeve The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Chairman records which are sufficient to show and explain the 23 February 2016 Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 29
