STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS ABSOLUTE PERFORMANCE The return that an asset achieves over a period of time, relative to the investment itself.
ANNUAL MANAGEMENT FEE The annual consideration paid to an asset management company for managing clients investments.
ATTRIBUTION ANALYSIS A  tool used to analyse the abilities of portfolio or fund managers.
Attribution analysis uncovers the impact of the manager's investment decisions with regard to overall investment policy, asset allocation, security selection and activity.
BOTTOM-UP STOCK SELECTION An investment approach that concentrates on the analysis of individual companies and considers the companys history, management and potential as more important than macroeconomic trends.
CASH ALTERNATIVES EQUIVALENT Also known as cash equivalents.
A class of investments considered relatively low-risk because of their high liquidity, meaning they can be quickly converted into cash.
CONTRARIAN APPROACH An investment style that goes against prevailing market trends.
In very simple terms the approach is defined by buying assets that are performing poorly and then selling when they perform well.
DEBENTURE STOCKS A type of stock entitling the bearer to a certain fixed dividend at set periods of time.
DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS An instrument whose value depends on the performance of an underlying security or rate which requires no initial exchange of principal.
Options, futures and swaps are all examples of derivatives.
DIVERSIFICATION Holding a range of assets to reduce risk.
DIVIDEND The portion of company net profits paid out to shareholders.
FIXED INTEREST Fixed interest securities, also known as bonds, are loans usually taken out by a government or company which normally pay a fixed rate of interest over a given time period, at the end of which the loan is repaid.
FTSE ALL-SHARE INDEX A comparative index that tracks the market price of the UK's leading companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Covering around 900 companies, including investment trusts, the name FTSE is taken from the Financial Times FT and the London Stock Exchange SE, who are its joint owners.
FTSE 350 INDEX A comparative index that tracks the market price of the UK's 350 largest companies, by market value, listed on the London Stock Exchange.
GEARING In accounting terms, gearing is the amount of a companys total borrowings divided by its share capital.
High gearing means a proportionately large amount of debt, which may be considered more risky for equity holders.
However, gearing also entails tax advantages.
In investment analysis, a highly geared company is one where small changes in sales produce big swings in profits.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 57 GLOSSARY OF TERMS CONTINUED GILTS A bond that is issued by the British government which is generally considered low risk.
HEDGING A technique seeking to offset or minimise the exposure to a specific risk by entering an opposing position.
LIQUIDITY The ease with which an asset can be sold at a reasonable price for cash.
MARKET CAPITALISATION The total value of a companys equity, calculated by the number of shares multiplied by their market price.
NET ASSET VALUE In a company context, the net asset value describes total assets minus total liabilities.
ONGOING CHARGE This figure includes the annual management fee and administrative costs but excludes any performance fee or portfolio transaction costs.
Ongoing charges may vary from year to year.
PEER COMPANIES Companies that operate in the same industry sector and are of similar size.
RELATIVE PERFORMANCE The return that an asset achieves over a period of time, compared to a benchmark.
SHARE BUYBACK When a company buys some of its own shares in the market, which leads to a rise in the share price.
It changes the companys debt-to-equity ratio and is a tax-efficient alternative to paying out dividends.
STOCK LENDING Also known as securities lending.
The act of loaning a stock, derivative, or other security to an investor or firm.
It requires the borrower to put up collateral, whether cash, security or a letter of credit.
When a security is loaned, the title and the ownership is also transferred to the borrower.
TOTAL RETURN Captures both the capital appreciation depreciation of an investment as well as the income generated over a holding period.
VALUATION Determination of the value of a company's stock based on earnings and the market value of assets.
YIELD A measure of the income return earned on an investment.
In the case of a share the yield expresses the annual dividend payment as the percentage of the market price of the share.
In the case of a bond the running yield or flat or current yield is the annual interest payable as a percentage of the current market price.
The redemption yield or yield to maturity allows for any gain or loss of capital which will be realised at the maturity date.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 58 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
