NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS NOTICE IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take you should seek your own advice from a stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares, please pass this document, together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser, or transferee, or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of authority which would or might require shares to be allotted TR Property Investment Trust plc will be held at 12 noon on or rights to be granted after such expiry and the directors shall Tuesday 21 July 2015 at the Royal Automobile Club, 89 91 be entitled to allot shares and grant rights pursuant to any Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS for the purpose of transacting the such offers or agreements as if this authority had not expired.
following business: 13 THAT To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions, a subject to the passing of Resolution 12 set out above of which Resolutions 1 to 12 will be proposed as Ordinary the directors be empowered pursuant to Section 570 and Resolutions and Resolutions 13 and 14 shall be proposed as Section 573 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined Special Resolutions.
in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 12 above and or to sell 1 To receive the Report of the Directors and the Audited shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015. if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: ended 31 March 2015. i the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury 3 To declare a final dividend of 4.75 pence per Ordinary share.
shares for cash in connection with an offer of, or invitation to apply for, equity securities: 4 To re-elect Simon Marrison as a director.
aa to shareholders in proportion as nearly as may 5 To re-elect David Watson as a director.
be practicable to their existing holdings: and 6 To re-elect Hugh Seaborn as a director.
bb to holders of other equity securities, as required 7 To re-elect Caroline Burton as a director.
by the rights of those securities, or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, and so that the 8 To re-elect Suzie Procter as a director.
Board may impose any limits or restrictions and 9 To re-elect John Glen as a director.
make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury 10 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Company shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or Meeting of the Company.
under the laws of, any territory or any other 11 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of matter: and the auditors.
ii in the case of the authority granted under Resolution 12 THAT the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised 12 and or in the case of any sale of treasury shares for pursuant to and in accordance to Section 551 of the cash, to the allotment otherwise than under paragraph Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers i above of equity securities or sale of treasury shares of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant up to a nominal amount of 3,968,762 being rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares approximately 5% of the total issued share capital of in the Company up to a nominal value of 26,193,830 the Company as at the latest practicable date prior to being approximately 33% of the total issued share capital publication of the notice of meeting, of the Company as at the latest practicable date prior to b the power given by this resolution shall expire upon the publication of the notice of the meeting provided that this expiry of the authority conferred by Resolution 12 above, authority shall expire at the date of the next Annual General save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, at the close of business agreements before the expiry of such power which would on 21 October 2016, save that the Company shall be or might require equity securities to be allotted after such entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity TR Property Investment Trust 73 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting continued securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if c the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may the power conferred hereby had not expired.
be paid for an Ordinary share shall be 25 pence, being the nominal value per Ordinary share: 14 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the of Section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary shares of 25 pence Company in 2016, save that the Company shall be each in the capital of the Company on such terms and in entitled to enter into a contract to purchase Ordinary such manner as the directors may from time to time shares which will, or may, be completed or executed determine provided that: wholly or partly after the power expires and the Company may purchase Ordinary shares pursuant to such contract a the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the Companys Ordinary shares in issue at the date of the Annual General Meeting equivalent to 47,593,396 Ordinary shares of 25 pence each at 9 June 2015, the date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting : b the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for any such share shall not be more than the higher of: Registered Office: i 105% of the average of the middle market Registered in England No: 84492 quotations for an Ordinary share as taken from the 1112 Hanover Street London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five London business days immediately preceding the date on W1S 1YQ which the Company agrees to buy the shares concerned: and By Order of the Board ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade For and on behalf of and the highest current independent bid for an Capita Company Secretarial Services Ordinary share in the Company on the trading venue Secretary where the purchase is carried out at the relevant time.
9 June 2015 74 TR Property Investment Trust D WHITEHALL A O UR STREET R CHARING CRO AIR ST S R E GREEK ST DEAN STREET G E N T S T S R RUPERT ST OXENDON WARDOUR STREET E E T WHITCOMB STREET SACKVILLE ST ST WAR O D DUKE ST BURY ST MARLBOROUGH ROAD REGENT STEET SHERWOOD ST SAVILE ROW ST JAMESS STREET GT WINDMILL ST HAYMARKET LEXINGTON ST ARLINGTON STREET NEW BOND STREET OLD BOND STREET CARNABY ST C IRVING ST I Y Q S T T S S R U E P L DOWNING ST S S U O K H S C S DENMAN ST O NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 2 In order to be able to attend and vote at the AGM or any Directions Pall Mall Clubhouse adjourned meeting, and also for the purpose of calculating how many votes a person may cast a person must have his her name entered on the Register of Members of the Company by 6.00 pm on 19 July 2014 or 6.00 pm on the date 2 days before any adjourned meeting.
Changes to Leicester Square entries on the Register of Members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Piccadilly Circus Royal 3 Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to Academy National of Arts Gallery requests made by shareholders of the Company under Nelsons Column Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts Green Park including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts GREEN ST JAMESS PARK PARK and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying The Royal Automobile Club has a dress code: with Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting the time when it makes the statement available on the 1 Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf includes any statement that the Company has been required at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting AGM a website.
provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights 4 Any corporation which is a member of the Company can attached to a different share or shares held by that appoint one or more corporate representatives who may shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided Company.
To appoint more than one proxy, the proxy form that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
should be photocopied and the name of the proxy to be appointed indicated on each proxy form together with the 5 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose number of shares that such proxy is appointed in respect of.
shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communication from the To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies proxy must be returned by post, by courier or by hand to the Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, have a right under an agreement with the registered The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, or shareholder who holds shares on their behalf to be appointed alternatively, by going to www.
com and or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, following the instructions provided.
All proxies must be if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish appointed by no later than 48 hours before the time of the to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement AGM.
The return of a completed proxy form or other such to given instructions to the person holding the shares as to instrument will not prevent a shareholder attending the AGM the exercise of voting rights.
and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
TR Property Investment Trust 75 L R A C STREET T L R E G I E A R S D T N S D G G P A E I C C N L L O T A S G MADDOX N I F LEIC I L L R A U GERRARD ST B R BROADWICK STREET T ORANGE ST JAMESS PANTON ST SQ PICCADILY KING STREET OLD COMPTON STREET ST JAMESS PLACE PALL MALL S RYDER T SQUARE E JERMYN STREET CHARLES II STREET L L E U A N P M BEAK STREET A ESTER CRANBOURN STREET LL E THE MALL V A Y R U B S BREWER STREET E T F A STRAND STREET H SHAFTESBURY AVENUE S CONDUIT STREET MONMOUTH ST ST MARTI ST MARTINS LANE NS PL NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 6 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies 8 A copy of this notice, and other information required by through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at do so for the AGM to be held on 21 July 2015 and any www.
adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in 9 Members satisfying the thresholds in section 338 of the the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST Companies Act 2006 may require the Company to give, to sponsored members, and those CREST members who have members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the appointed a voting service provider should refer to their Annual General Meeting, notice of a resolution which those CREST sponsors or voting service provider s, who will be able members intend to move and which may properly be to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
moved at the Annual General Meeting.
A resolution may In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of properly be moved at the Annual General Meeting unless CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST i it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance any inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must constitution or otherwise : ii it is defamatory of any person: contain the information required for such instructions, as described or iii it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to in the CREST Manual.
The message must be transmitted so as to this right may be in hard copy or electronic form, must identify be received by the Companys agent, Computershare Investor the resolution of which notice is to be given, must be Services PLC CREST Participant ID: 3RA50, no later than 48 authenticated by the person s making it and must be hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
For this purpose, received by the Company not later than six weeks before the the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by date of the Annual General Meeting.
the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application 10 Members satisfying the thresholds in section 338A of the Host from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the Companies Act 2006 may request the Company to include in message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
the business to be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsor any matter other than a proposed resolution which may or voting service provider should note that Euroclear UK & properly be included in the business at the Annual General Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in Meeting.
A matter may properly be included in the business at CREST for any particular messages.
the Annual General Meeting unless i it is defamatory of any person or ii it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in pursuant to this right may be in hard copy or electronic form, relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the must identify the matter to be included in the business, must responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the CREST member is a CREST personal member or the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, and must be received by the Company not later than six to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider weeks before the date of the Annual General Meeting.
takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any 11 Biographical details of the directors are shown on page 27 of particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where the Annual Report & Accounts.
applicable, their CREST sponsor or voting service provider are 12 As at 8 June 2015 being the latest practicable day prior to referred in particular to those sections of the CREST Manual publication of the notice of the meeting, the issued share concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and capital of the Company is 317,500,980 Ordinary shares of timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy 25p each.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a Company at 8 June 2015 is 317,500,980. of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
13 The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the 7 Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask Management Engagement Committee and the Letters of questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such Appointment for directors will be available for inspection for at question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting least 15 minutes prior to and during the Companys AGM.
but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the 14 You may not use any electronic address provided either in this disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already Notice or any related documents to communicate for any been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, purposes other than those expressly stated.
or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
