NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS NOTICE IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take you should seek your own advice from a stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares, please pass this document, together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser, or transferee, or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of authority which would or might require shares to be allotted TR Property Investment Trust plc will be held at 12 noon on or rights to be granted after such expiry and the directors shall Tuesday 21 July 2015 at the Royal Automobile Club, 89 91 be entitled to allot shares and grant rights pursuant to any Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS for the purpose of transacting the such offers or agreements as if this authority had not expired.
following business: 13 THAT To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions, a subject to the passing of Resolution 12 set out above of which Resolutions 1 to 12 will be proposed as Ordinary the directors be empowered pursuant to Section 570 and Resolutions and Resolutions 13 and 14 shall be proposed as Section 573 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined Special Resolutions.
in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 12 above and or to sell 1 To receive the Report of the Directors and the Audited shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015. if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: ended 31 March 2015. i the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury 3 To declare a final dividend of 4.75 pence per Ordinary share.
shares for cash in connection with an offer of, or invitation to apply for, equity securities: 4 To re-elect Simon Marrison as a director.
aa to shareholders in proportion as nearly as may 5 To re-elect David Watson as a director.
be practicable to their existing holdings: and 6 To re-elect Hugh Seaborn as a director.
bb to holders of other equity securities, as required 7 To re-elect Caroline Burton as a director.
by the rights of those securities, or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, and so that the 8 To re-elect Suzie Procter as a director.
Board may impose any limits or restrictions and 9 To re-elect John Glen as a director.
make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury 10 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Company shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or Meeting of the Company.
under the laws of, any territory or any other 11 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of matter: and the auditors.
ii in the case of the authority granted under Resolution 12 THAT the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised 12 and or in the case of any sale of treasury shares for pursuant to and in accordance to Section 551 of the cash, to the allotment otherwise than under paragraph Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers i above of equity securities or sale of treasury shares of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant up to a nominal amount of 3,968,762 being rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares approximately 5% of the total issued share capital of in the Company up to a nominal value of 26,193,830 the Company as at the latest practicable date prior to being approximately 33% of the total issued share capital publication of the notice of meeting, of the Company as at the latest practicable date prior to b the power given by this resolution shall expire upon the publication of the notice of the meeting provided that this expiry of the authority conferred by Resolution 12 above, authority shall expire at the date of the next Annual General save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, at the close of business agreements before the expiry of such power which would on 21 October 2016, save that the Company shall be or might require equity securities to be allotted after such entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity TR Property Investment Trust 73
