NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions 1, 2 and 3: Accounts, Directors Resolution 13: Disapplication of statutory preemption rights Remuneration Report and Dividend This resolution would give the directors the authority to These are the resolutions which deal with the presentation allot shares or sell any shares which the Company elects of the audited accounts, the approval of the Directors to hold in treasury for cash without first offering them to Remuneration Report and the declaration of the final existing shareholders in proportion to their existing dividend.
The vote to approve the remuneration report shareholdings.
is advisory only and will not require the Company to alter any arrangements detailed in the report should the This authority would be limited to allotments or sales in resolution not be passed.
connection with pre-emptive offers and offers to holders of other equity securities if required by the rights of those Resolutions 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9: Re-election of shares or as the board otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of directors 3,968,762.
This aggregate nominal amount represents These resolutions deal with the re-election of Simon 5% of the total issued share capital of the Company as Marrison, David Watson, Hugh Seaborn, Caroline Burton, at 8 June 2015, the latest practicable date prior to Suzie Procter and John Glen.
In accordance with the UK publication of this Notice.
In respect of this aggregate Corporate Governance Code, all directors will retire on an nominal amount, the directors confirm their intention to annual basis and have confirmed that they will offer follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups themselves for re-election.
Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling 3-year period where the A performance evaluation has been completed and your Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not Board has determined that each of the directors continues take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
to be effective and demonstrates their commitment to The authority will expire at the earlier of close of business their role.
on 21 October 2016 and the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2016.
Resolutions 10 and 11: Auditors These deal with the re-appointment of the auditors, Ernst Resolution 14: Authority to make Market Purchases & Young LLP, and the authorisation for the directors to of the Companys Ordinary shares determine their remuneration.
At the AGM held on 22 July 2014, a special resolution was proposed and passed, giving the directors authority, Resolution 12: Allotment of share capital until the conclusion of the AGM in 2015, to make market Our Board considers it appropriate that an authority be purchases of the Companys own issued shares up to a granted to allot shares in the capital of the Company up maximum of 14.99% of the issued share capital.
to a maximum nominal amount of 26,193,830 Your Board is proposing that they should be given representing approximately 33% of the Companys renewed authority to purchase Ordinary shares in the issued share capital as at 8 June 2015, being the latest market.
Your Board believes that to make such purchases practical date prior to publication.
As at the date of this in the market at appropriate times and prices is a suitable notice the Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
method of enhancing shareholder value.
The Company would, within guidelines set from time to time by the The directors have no present intention of exercising this Board, make either a single purchase or a series of authority and would only expect to use the authority if purchases, when market conditions are suitable, with shares could be issued at, or at a premium to, the NAV the aim of maximising the benefits to shareholders.
Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing This authority will expire at the earlier of close of business Net Asset Value per share, this will enhance the Net Asset on 22 October 2016 and the conclusion of the annual Value for the remaining shareholders.
It is therefore general meeting of the Company to be held in 2016. intended that purchases would only be made at prices TR Property Investment Trust 77 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting continued below Net Asset Value.
Your Board considers that it will be Recommendation most advantageous to shareholders for the Company to Your Board believes that the resolutions contained in this be able to make such purchases as and when it considers Notice of Annual General Meeting are in the best interests the timing to be favourable and therefore does not of the Company and shareholders as a whole and propose to set a timetable for making any such purchases.
recommends that you vote in favour of them as your Directors intend to do in respect of their beneficial The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury shareholdings.
Shares Regulations 2003 enable companies in the United Kingdom to hold in treasury any of their own shares they have purchased with a view to possible resale at a future date, rather than cancelling them.
If the Company does re-purchase any of its shares, the directors do not currently intend to hold any of the shares re-purchased in treasury.
The shares so re-purchased will continue to be cancelled.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority limit the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for any such share.
It shall not be more than the higher of: i 1 05% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary share as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy shares concerned: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary share in the Company on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price to be paid will be 25p per Ordinary share being the nominal value.
The Listing Rules also limit a listed company to purchases of shares representing up to 15% of its issued share capital in the market pursuant to a general authority such as this.
For this reason, the Company is limiting its authority to make such purchases to 14.99% of the Companys Ordinary shares in issue at the date of the AGM: this is equivalent to 47,593,396 Ordinary shares of 25p each nominal value 11,898,348 at 9 June 2015, the date of the Notice of the AGM.
The authority will last until the AGM of the Company to be held in 2016.
