Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 283 I Glossary Basel II The capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in June 2006 inthe form of the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and capital standards.
Basel III Global regulatory standard on Bank Capital Adequacy, Stress Testing and Market and Liquidity proposed bythe Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in 2010.
Basis Point bps One hundredth of aper cent 0.01%.
Used when quoting movements in interest rates or yields.
Capital at Risk Approach set out for the quantification of interest rate risk expressed as present value of the impact ofthe sensitivity analysis on the Groups capital.
CASS Client Assets Sourcebook included in the FCA Handbook and sets out the requirements with which firms must comply when holding or controlling client assets.
Certificates of Deposit Bearer negotiable instruments acknowledging the receipt of afixed term deposit at aspecified interest rate.
Charge Off Charge off occurs on outstanding credit card balances which are deemed irrecoverable.
This involves the removal of the balance and associated provision from the balance sheet with any remaining outstanding balance recognised as aloss.
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital The highest quality form of capital under CRD IV that comprises common shares issued and related share premium, retained earnings and other reserves excluding the cash flow hedging reserve, less specified regulatory adjustments.
Cost of Capital The cost of funds used to finance the business including distributions to AT1 security holders.
Cost of Risk Cost of risk is defined as impairment charges divided by simple average gross loans for agiven period.
Cost:Income Ratio Operating expenses compared to total income.
The Group calculates this ratio using the underlying basis which is the basis on which financial information is reported internally to management.
CRD IV In June 2013, the European Commission published legislation for aCapital Requirements Directive CRD and Capital Requirements Regulation CRR which form the CRD IV package.
The package implements the Basel III proposals in addition to the inclusion of new proposals on sanctions for non-compliance withprudential rules, corporate governance and remuneration.
The rules are implemented in the UK via the PRA policy statement PS7 13 and came into force from 1 January 2014, with certain sections subject to transitional phase in.
Credit Default Swap A credit default swap is atype of credit derivative.
It is an arrangement whereby the credit risk of an asset the reference asset is transferred from the buyer to the seller of protection.
The entity selling protection receives premium or interest-related payments in return for contracting to make payments tothe protection buyer upon adefined credit event.
Credit events normally include bankruptcy, payment default on areference asset or assets, or downgrades by arating agency.
Credit Enhancements Techniques that improve the credit standing of financial obligations: generally those issued by astructured entity in asecuritisation.
Credit Spread The credit spread is the yield spread between the securities with the same currency and maturity structure but with different associated credit risks, with the yield spread rising as the credit rating worsens.
It is the premium over the benchmark or risk-free rate required by the market to take on alower credit quality.
Credit Valuation Adjustments These are adjustments to the fair values of derivative assets to reflect the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
Cross-currency Swaps An arrangement in which two parties exchange specific principal amounts in different currencies at inception and subsequently interest payments on the principal amounts.
Debt Securities Debt securities are assets held by the Group representing certificates of indebtedness of credit institutions, public bodies or other undertakings, excluding those issued by Central Banks.
Default Default occurs where aborrower has missed 6 months of mortgage repayments or 3 months of credit card repayments, or, the borrower is deemed to be unlikely to repay their loan.
The definition of unlikely to repay includes those loans where: the property has been taken into possession: loans that have been modified in the form of aRescue Solution debt management plan: loans where the customer is at least one month in arrears and they have active public information at the credit bureau.
Earnings at Risk Approach set out for the quantification of interest rate risk expressed as the impact of the sensitivity analysis on the change to net interest income.
Expected Loss This is the amount of loss that can be expected by the Group calculated in accordance with PRA rules.
In broad terms it is calculated by multiplying the Probability of Default by the Loss Given Default by the Exposure at Default.
Exposure at Default EAD An estimate of the amount expected to be owed by acustomer at the time of acustomers default.
Forbearance Forbearance takes place when aconcession is made on the contractual terms of aloan in response to borrowers financial difficulties: or for where the contractual terms have been cancelled for credit cards.
Forbearance options are determined by assessing the customers personal circumstances.
4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 36 onwards reflowed.
indd 283 01 03 2016 11:01 284 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Glossary Full Time Equivalent FTE A full time employee is one that works astandard five day week.
The hours worked by part time employees are measured against this standard and accumulated along with the number of full time employees and counted as full time equivalents.
Funding for Lending Scheme FLS The Bank of England launched the Funding for Lending scheme in 2012 to allow banks and building societies to borrow from the Bank of England at cheaper than market rates for up to four years.
This was designed to increase lending to businesses by lowering interest rates and increasing access to credit.
Funding Risk The inability to raise and maintain sufficient funding in quality and quantity to support the delivery of the business plan.
Help to Buy Help to Buy was formed as part of the 2013 budget announcement by the Government and is part of apackage of measures designed to increase the availability of low-deposit mortgages for credit worthy households and to boost the supply of new housing.
Impaired Assets Loans that are in arrears, or where there is objective evidence of impairment, and where the carrying amount of the loan exceeds the expected recoverable amount.
Impairment Allowance Impairment allowances are aprovision held on the balance sheet as aresult of the raising of acharge against profit for the incurred loss inherent in the lending book.
An impairment allowance may either beindividual or collective.
Impairment Losses An impairment loss is the reduction in value that arises following an impairment review of an asset that determined that the assets value is lower than its carrying value.
For impaired financial assets measured at amortised cost, impairment losses are the difference between the carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Interest Rate Risk The risk of areduction in the value of earnings or assets resulting from an adverse movement in interest rates.
Interest Rate Risk in the The risk to interest income arising from amismatch between the duration of assets and liabilities that arises BankingBook IRRBB in the normal course of business activities.
Internal Capital Adequacy The Groups own assessment of the levels of capital that it needs to hold in respect of its regulatory capital Assessment Process ICAAP requirements for credit, market and operational risks and for other risks including stress events as they apply on asolo level and on aconsolidated level.
Leverage Ratio Total Tier 1 Capital expressed as apercentage of Total assets adjusted in accordance with CRD IV.
Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR Stock of high quality liquid assets as apercentage of expected net cash outflows over the following 30days.
Liquidity Risk The inability to accommodate liability maturities and withdrawals, fund asset growth, and otherwise meet the Groups contractual obligations to make payments as they fall due.
Loan-to-Deposit Ratio The ratio of loans and advances to customers net of allowance for impairment divided by customer deposits each excluding repurchase agreements.
Fair value of portfolio hedging is excluded from thiscalculation.
Loan-to-Value Ratio The amount of asecured loan as apercentage of the appraised value of the security e. g. the outstanding amount of mortgage loan as apercentage of the propertys value.
Loss Emergence Period The loss emergence period is the estimated period between impairment occurring and the loss specifically identified and evidenced by the establishment of an appropriate impairment allowance.
Loss Given Default LGD The estimated loss that will arise if acustomer defaults.
It is calculated after taking account of credit risk mitigation and includes the cost of recovery.
Master Netting Agreement An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts through asingle payment, in asingle currency, in the event of default on, or termination of, any one contract.
Net Interest Income The difference between interest received on assets and interest paid on liabilities.
Net Interest Margin NIM Net interest income as apercentage of average interest-earning assets.
Net Stable Funding Ratio NSFR The ratio of available stable funding to required stable funding over aone year time horizon, assuming astressed scenario.
The ratio is required to be 100% with effect from 2018.
Available stable funding would include such items as equity capital, preferred stock with amaturity of over 1 year, or liabilities withamaturity of over 1 year.
Option An option is acontract that gives the holder of the right but not the obligation to buy or sell aspecified amount of the underlying physical or financial commodity, at aspecified price, at an agreed date or over an agreed period.
Percentage Point pp Unit for measuring the difference of two percentages.
Achange from 1% to 2% is 1 percentage point.
Pillar 1 The part of CRD IV that sets out the process by which regulatory capital requirements should be calculated for credit, market and operational risk.
Pillar 2 The part of CRD IV that sets out the process by which abank should review its overall capital adequacy and the processes under which the supervisors evaluate how well financial institutions are assessing their risks and take appropriate actions in response to the assessments.
indd 284 01 03 2016 11:01 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 285 I Pillar 3 The part of CRD IV that sets out the information banks must disclose in relation to their risks, the amount of capital required to absorb them, and their approach to risk management.
The aim is to strengthen market discipline.
Probability of Default PD The probability of acustomer becoming six months or more past due on their mortgage obligations, orthree month past due for credit cards, over adefined outcome period.
The outcome period varies forassessment of capital requirements and for assessment of provisions.
Repurchase Agreements Repos An agreement where one party, the seller, sells afinancial asset to another party, the buyer, at the same time the seller agrees to reacquire and the buyer to resell the asset at alater date.
From the sellers perspective such agreements are repurchase agreements repos and from the buyers reverse repurchase agreements reverse repos.
Retail Distribution Review Consumer protection strategy of the FCA.
Return on Equity Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by average shareholders equity.
Return on tangible equity Underlying profit before tax adjusted for distributions to Additional Tier 1 noteholders and tax divided byaverage tangible equity.
Risk Appetite The variability in results or key outcomes that the board is willing to accept in support of the Group.
Risk-Weighted Assets A measure of a banks assets adjusted for their associated risks.
Risk weightings are established in accordance with PRA rules.
Secured Lending Lending on which the borrower uses collateral such as equity in their home.
Securitisation Securitisation is aprocess by which agroup of assets, usually loans, are aggregated into apool, which isused to back the issuance of new securities through an SPV.
Sovereign Exposures Exposures to central governments and central government departments, central banks and entities owned or guaranteed by the aforementioned.
Standardised Approach In relation to credit risk, amethod for calculating credit risk capital requirements using External Credit Assessment Institutions ECAI ratings of obligators where available and supervisory risk weights.
Inrelation to operational risk, amethod of calculating the operational risk capital requirement by the application of asupervisory defined percentage charge to the gross income of specified business lines.
Stress Testing Techniques where plausible events are considered as vulnerabilities to ascertain how this will impact thecapital resources which are required to be held.
Tangible Equity A subset of shareholders equity that is not intangible assets.
Tier 1 Capital A measure of banks financial strength defined by the PRA.
It captures Common Equity Tier 1 capital plusother Tier 1 securities in issue, but is subject to adeduction in respect of material holdings in financial companies.
Tier 1 Capital Ratio Tier 1 capital as apercentage of risk-weighted assets.
Tier 2 Capital A further component of regulatory capital defined by the PRA.
It comprises eligible collective assessed impairment allowances under CRD IV.
Underlying EPS Underlying profit before tax adjusted for distributions to Additional Tier 1 noteholders and tax divided by the weighted-average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the period excluding own shares held inemployee benefit trusts or held for trading.
Unsecured Lending Lending with no collateral held such as credit cards and current account overdrafts.
Virgin Virgin Group Holdings Limited.
Virgin Money Foundation A new charitable foundation established by Virgin Money to invest in projects designed to benefit communities in which Virgin Money works.
Virgin Money Trademark The agreement under which Virgin Enterprises Limited grants perpetual licence to Virgin Money to use the LicenceAgreement Virgin and Virgin Money trademarks.
WLR WLR IV VM LLC and WLR IV VM II LLC, together major shareholders of the Company.
Write Off Mortgages: may be written off where the outstanding balance or shortfall from sale of property is deemed irrecoverable.
Assets written off will be deducted from the balance sheet.
Credit cards: awrite offoccurs following charge off when all attempts to recover the outstanding balance is exhausted and theaccount is closed.
Yield Curve A line that plots the interest rates, at aset point in time, of an asset class or swap rate at varying maturities.
This can be used as agauge to evaluate the future of interest rates.
