214 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Consolidated income statement For the year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Note million million Interest and similar income 839.3 771.6 Interest and similar expense 384.5 404.3 Net interest income 3 454.8 367.3 Fee and commission income 27.4 35.1 Fee and commission expense 1.2 1.1 Net fee and commission income 4 26.2 34.0 Other operating income 5 41.3 36.9 Fair value losses gains on financial instruments 13 0.4 0.1 Other income 67.1 71.0 Total income 521.9 438.3 Other operating expenses 6 353.6 338.9 Fees associated with listing 12.6 Total operating expenses 6 353.6 351.5 Profit before tax from operating activities 168.3 86.8 Impairment 8 30.3 15.8 Gain on sale of subsidiary 19 4.5 Additional Northern Rock consideration 36.0 Premium on repurchase of Non-core Tier 1 notes in issue 4.5 Loss for the period of disposal group 1.0 Profit before tax 138.0 34.0 Taxation 9 26.8 25.3 Profit for the year 111.2 8.7 Profit attributable to equity owners 111.2 8.7 Profit for the year 111.2 8.7 Basic earnings per share pence 10 22.9 0.4 Diluted earnings per share pence 10 22.7 0.4 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
indd 214 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 215 I Consolidated statement of comprehensive income For the year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Note million million Profit for the year 111.2 8.7 Other comprehensive income Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss: Movements in revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale financial assets: Change in fair value 31 25.1 12.1 Income statement transfers in respect of disposals 31 33.6 10.3 Taxation 31 1.2 1.3 7.3 0.5 Movements in cash flow hedge reserve: 13.2 Effective portion of changes in fair value taken to other comprehensive income 31 14.1 Net income statement transfers 31 5.1 2.6 Taxation 31 1.6 2.5 6.5 9.0 Other comprehensive expense for the year, net of tax 13.8 8.5 Total comprehensive income for the year 97.4 0.2 Total comprehensive income attributable to equity owners 97.4 0.2 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
indd 215 01 03 2016 11:38 216 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Consolidated balance sheet As at 31 December 2015 2014 Note million million Assets Cash and balances at central banks 888.6 851.3 Derivative financial instruments 13 82.3 101.2 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 14 614.5 720.5 Loans and advances to customers 15 27,109.0 23,093.1 Debt securities 1.1 8.6 27,724.6 23,822.2 Available-for-sale financial assets 16 1,296.9 1,539.6 Intangible assets 20 64.4 46.1 Tangible fixed assets 21 74.6 72.9 Deferred tax assets 22 38.0 50.2 Other assets 23 59.6 53.3 Total assets 30,229.0 26,536.8 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 1-20 reflowed.
indd 216 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 217 I Consolidated balance sheet As at 31 December 2015 2014 Equity and liabilities Note million million Liabilities Deposits from banks 24 1,298.7 846.7 Customer deposits 25 25,144.9 22,365.7 Derivative financial instruments 13 156.0 228.2 Debt securities in issue 26 2,039.4 1,594.1 Provisions 27 8.4 9.3 Other liabilities 28 241.3 249.0 Total liabilities 28,888.7 25,293.0 Equity Share capital and share premium 29 654.6 654.6 Other equity instruments 30 156.5 156.5 Other reserves 31 15.6 1.8 Retained earnings 32 544.8 434.5 Total equity 1,340.3 1,243.8 Total liabilities and equity 30,229.0 26,536.8 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board and were signed on its behalf on 1 March 2016.
Glen Moreno Jayne-Anne Gadhia CBE Chairman Chief Executive 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 1-20 reflowed.
indd 217 01 03 2016 11:38 218 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Consolidated statement of changes in equity For the year ended 31 December Attributable to equity holders Share capital and share Other equity Other Retained premium instruments reserves earnings Total equity million million million million million Balance at 1 January 2015 654.6 156.5 1.8 434.5 1,243.8 Comprehensive income Profit for the year 111.2 111.2 Other comprehensive income Net movement in available-for-sale reserve 7.3 7.3 Net movement in cash flow hedge reserve 6.5 6.5 Total other comprehensive expense 13.8 13.8 Total comprehensive expense income for the year 13.8 111.2 97.4 Transactions with equity holders Share based payments charge for the year 20.0 20.0 Deferred tax on share based payments 0.3 0.3 Purchase of own shares 5.0 5.0 Distribution to Additional Tier 1 security holders 12.6 12.6 Group relief attributable to Additional Tier 1 securities 2.6 2.6 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 6.2 6.2 Total transactions with equity holders 0.9 0.9 Balance at 31 December 2015 654.6 156.5 15.6 544.8 1,340.3 Further details of movements in the Groups share capital and reserves are provided in notes 29, 30, 31 and 32.
indd 218 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 219 I Consolidated statement of changes in equity For the year ended 31 December Attributable to equity holders continued Share capital and share Other equity Other Retained premium instruments reserves earnings Total equity million million million million million Balance at 1 January 2014 509.2 6.7 419.0 934.9 Comprehensive income Profit for the year 8.7 8.7 Other comprehensive income Net movement in available-for-sale reserve 0.5 0.5 Net movement in cash flow hedge reserve 9.0 9.0 Total other comprehensive income 8.5 8.5 Total comprehensive expense income for the year 8.5 8.7 0.2 Transactions with equity holders Share based payments charge for the year 12.9 12.9 Share based payments reclassifications from liabilities 4.2 4.2 Issue of ordinary shares net 145.4 145.4 Issue of Additional Tier 1 securities net 156.5 156.5 Distribution to Additional Tier 1 security holders 3.2 3.2 Distribution to Non-core Tier 1 noteholders 9.2 9.2 Group relief attributable to Tier 1 securities 2.1 2.1 Total transactions with equity holders 145.4 156.5 6.8 308.7 Balance at 31 December 2014 654.6 156.5 1.8 434.5 1,243.8 Further details of movements in the Groups share capital and reserves are provided in notes 29, 30, 31 and 32.
indd 219 01 03 2016 11:38 220 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Consolidated cash flow statement For the year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Note million million Profit before taxation 138.0 34.0 Adjustments for: Changes in operating assets 35 a 4,037.3 2,330.6 Changes in operating liabilities 35 b 3,146.4 1,805.6 Non-cash and other items 35 c 62.4 132.8 Tax paid 5.0 Net cash used in operating activities 695.5 623.8 Cash flows from investing activities Net investment in intangible assets 29.5 26.9 Purchase of fixed assets 10.2 10.6 Disposal of fixed assets 0.2 Net investment in securities 659.2 956.5 Proceeds from sale and redemption of securities 900.5 1,278.5 Movement in disposal group assets and liabilities 7.7 Net investment in credit card portfolio 362.7 Net cash flow from disposal of Church House Trust Limited 11.5 Net cash provided by used in investing activities 201.6 59.2 Cash flows from financing activities Distributions to Tier 1 noteholders 12.6 20.2 Repayment of Non-core Tier 1 notes 154.5 Net proceeds from issue of debt securities 1,047.2 998.4 Repayments of debt securities in issue 601.9 874.1 Proceeds from issue of Additional Tier 1 securities net 156.5 Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares net 145.4 Purchase of own shares 5.0 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 11 6.2 Payment of additional Northern Rock consideration 50.0 Net cash provided by financing activities 421.5 201.5 Change in cash and cash equivalents 72.4 481.5 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,533.8 2,015.3 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 35 d 1,461.4 1,533.8 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
indd 220 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 221 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation 1.1 Reporting entity 1.4 Presentation of information Virgin Money Holdings UK plc the Company is apublic Presentation of risk disclosures limited company incorporated and registered in England Disclosures under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Wales.
The registered office is Jubilee House, Gosforth, concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to financial Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, NE3 4PL.
instruments have been included within the audited sections of the Risk Management Report.
Where marked as audited The Company was incorporated on 4 August 1995 as these are covered by the Independent Auditors Report.
aprivate limited company with registered number 03087587.
On24 July 2014 the Company was re-registered as apublic 1.5 Basis of consolidation limited company.
The Group consists of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Company is the parent entity and the ultimate controlling The subsidiaries are listed in note 3 of the parent company party of the Virgin Money Group the Group.
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Group.
1.2 Basis of preparation Entities are regarded as subsidiaries where the Group has the The Group consolidated financial statements, which should power over an investee, exposure or rights to variable returns be read in conjunction with the Directors Report, have from its involvement with the investee and the ability to affect been prepared on agoing concern basis in accordance with those returns.
Inter-company transactions and balances are International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted eliminated upon consolidation.
Subsidiaries are consolidated by the EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 from the date on which control is transferred to the Group applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
and are deconsolidated from the date that power over an The Directors have reviewed the strategic plan which shows investee, exposure or rights to variable returns and the ability the financial position, cash flow, liquidity and capital forecasts to affect these returns ceases.
Accounting policies are applied for the Group.
The Directors are confident that the Group will consistently across the Group.
have sufficient resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The Virgin Money Foundation, launched in August 2015, is Accordingly the Directors believe that it remains appropriate managed and controlled by aBoard of independent Trustees, to prepare the financial statements on agoing concern basis.
such that the Group has no power over the Foundation or, exposure or ability to affect variable returns.
The 1.3 Changes in accounting policy Foundation is therefore not consolidated in the financial New standards, amendments to standards and statements of the Group.
interpretations adopted Special Purpose Vehicles SPV are entities created to The following amendment to IFRS 13 is mandatory for annual accomplish anarrow and well defined objective.
For the reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015, has Group this is the securitisation of mortgage assets.
An SPV is been endorsed for adoption by the EU and has been adopted consolidated if the Group has control over the SPV, is exposed by the Group during the year ended 31 December 2015: to rights of variable returns from its involvement in the SPV and has the ability to affect those returns through its power Pronouncement Impact of change over the entity.
Amendment to The amendment clarifies that the portfolio IFRS 13 Fair value exception in IFRS 13, which allows an entity to 1.6 Basis of measurement measurement measure the fair value of agroup of financial assets and financial liabilities on anet basis, The financial statements have been prepared under the applies to all contracts including non-financial historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of contracts within the scope of IAS 39 or IFRS 9. derivative financial instruments, available-for-sale and other This amendment did not have asignificant assets held at fair value through profit or loss.
Asummary of impact on the Group when adopted.
the material accounting policies of the Group are included within note 1.9.
Policies which are relevant to the financial There are no other standards, amendments to standards or statements as awhole are set out below.
interpretations that are applicable in the year which have amaterial impact on these financial statements.
The accounting policies set out in the note 1.9 have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these New accounting standards issued by the IASB which are financial statements.
effective in future periods are presented in note 39.
indd 221 01 03 2016 11:38 222 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation continued b Interest income and expense 1.7 Client money Interest income and expense are recognised in the income The Groups unit trust management and investment statement for all instruments measured at amortised cost intermediary subsidiaries administer money on behalf of using the effective interest rate method.
some clients in accordance with the Client Money Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Client money is not recognised This method calculates the amortised cost of afinancial asset in the balance sheet or in the notes to the financial statements or liability, and allocates the interest income or expense over as the Group is not the beneficial owner.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts or payments 1.8 Foreign currency translation through the expected life of the financial instrument or, where appropriate, ashorter period to the net carrying amount of The Groups financial statements are presented in sterling, the financial asset or liability.
The Group estimates cash flows which is the functional currency of the Company, all of its considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument subsidiaries and the SPVs included within the consolidated for example prepayment options but does not consider financial statements.
The calculation includes all amounts Foreign currency transactions are translated into functional received or paid by the Group that are an integral part of the currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of overall return, direct incremental transaction costs related to the transactions.
Monetary items denominated in foreign the acquisition or issue of afinancial instrument and all other currencies are translated at the rate prevailing at the balance premiums and discounts.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from Once afinancial asset or group of similar financial assets the restatement and settlement of such transactions are has been written down as aresult of an impairment loss, recognised in the income statement, except when recognised interest income is recognised using the rate of interest used in other comprehensive income if relating to aqualifying to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring cash flow hedge or available-for-sale assets.
items which are assets or liabilities which do not attach to aright to receive or an obligation to pay currency measured Interest receivable or payable on derivatives, whether in at amortised cost and denominated in foreign currencies are economic or accounting hedges, is recorded on an accruals translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
basis in interest receivable or payable.
Interest on  items measured at fair value are translated at for-sale AFS debt securities is recorded in interest receivable the exchange rate at the date of valuation.
Where these are using the effective interest rate method.
held at fair value through the income statement, exchange c Fees and commissions differences are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Where they are not included in the effective interest rate 1.9 Accounting policies calculation, fees and commissions are recognised on an accruals basis when the service has been received or provided.
The accounting policies of the Group are set out below.
Loan commitment fees for loans that are likely to be drawn down are deferred together with related incremental direct a Operating segments costs and recognised as an adjustment to the effective The Group determines operating segments according to interest rate on the loan.
similar economic characteristics and the nature of its products and services in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
Fee income from general insurance and life insurance policies Management reviews the Groups internal reporting based is recognised in full on the effective date of commencement or around these segments in order to assess performance and renewal of the related policies to reflect underlying contracts allocate resources.
Segment performance is evaluated based on underlying profit d Other operating income or loss and is measured consistently with underlying profit Other operating income comprises the fair value for or loss in the consolidated financial statements income tax services, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts.
Segment results are regularly reviewed and Other operating income is attributable to the sale and reported to the Board of Directors to allocate resources to management of stocks and shares ISAs, pensions, authorised segments and to assess their performance.
unit trusts, the marketing of credit cards and other financial Operating segments are reported in amanner consistent services products.
with the internal reporting provided to the Board.
The Group Executive Committee management has been determined to be the chief operating decision maker for the Group.
indd 222 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 223 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation continued Other operating income from sales of units in managed funds are held separately from those of the Group in independently is recognised daily based on the average volume of funds administered funds.
The accounting policies for employee share based payments Fees charged to charities for registering with Virgin Money are set out in policy f. Giving are recognised from the date on which recovery is Leases reasonably certain.
The commission charged on donations If the lease agreement in which the Group is alessee transfers and event fees is recognised from the date donations and the risks and rewards of the asset, the lease is recorded event fees are transacted on the website.
Both of these as afinance lease and the related asset is capitalised.
At income streams contribute towards costs incurred by inception, the asset is recorded at the lower of the present Virgin Money Giving.
value of the minimum lease payments or fair value and Other income includes commission on donations, interest is depreciated over the estimated useful life.
The lease received from related parties and other sundry income.
obligations are recorded as borrowings.
The Group recognises ongoing credit card income from If the lease does not transfer the risks and rewards of the strategic partners as other income.
asset, the lease is recorded as an operating lease.
e Total operating expenses Operating lease payments are charged to profit or loss on astraight line basis over the lease term unless adifferent Operating expenses are recognised on an accruals basis as systematic basis is more appropriate.
Where an operating services are provided.
Included within the employee benefits lease is terminated before the lease period has expired, any expense are employee share based payments.
Theaccounting payment required to be made to the lessor in compensation policy in relation to share based payments is set out in policy f. is charged to profit or loss in the period in which Staff costs termination is made.
The Group accounts for components of employee costs on the f Share based payments following bases: The Group puts in place share schemes for employees to Short-term employee benefits reward strong long-term business performance and to Short term employee benefits include salaries and social incentivise growth for the future.
security costs and are recognised over the period in which the The Group engages in equity and cash settled share based employees provide the services to which the payments relate.
payment transactions in respect of services received from Cash bonus awards are recognised to the extent that the certain of its employees.
Group has apresent obligation to its employees that can For equity settled share based payment transactions the grant be measured reliably and are recognised over the period date fair value of the award is recognised as an employee of service that employees are required to work to qualify expense with acorresponding increase in equity over the for the payment.
period that the employees become unconditionally entitled Other long-term employee benefits to the awards.
Other long-term employee benefits include deferred cash The grant date fair value of the award is determined using bonus awards.
Deferred cash bonus awards are recognised valuation models which take into account the terms and at the present value of the obligation at the reporting date.
conditions attached to the awards.
Inputs into valuation These costs are recognised over the period of service that models may include the exercise price, the risk-free interest employees are required to work to qualify for the payment.
rate, the expected volatility of the Companys share price and other various factors which relate to performance conditions Retirement benefit obligations attached to the awards.
A defined contribution plan is apost-employment benefit The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect plan into which the Group pays fixed contributions and has the actual number of awards for which the related service and no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met such Contributions are recognised as staff expenses in profit or that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based loss in the periods during which related employee services on the number of awards that do meet the related service and are fulfilled.
non-market performance conditions at the vesting date.
The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes For share based payment awards with market performance for its Directors and employees.
The assets of the schemes conditions or non-vesting conditions the grant date fair 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 1-20 reflowed.
indd 223 01 03 2016 11:38 224 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation continued value of the award is measured to reflect such conditions and there are adverse changes in the payment status there is no true-up for differences between expected and ofborrowers in the portfolio: and actual outcomes.
economic conditions that correlate with defaults For cash settled share based payment transactions the fair onthe assets in the portfolio.
value of the amount payable to the employee is recognised as If the Group determines that no objective evidence of an expense with acorresponding increase in liabilities.
The fair impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, value is initially measured at grant date and spread over the whether significant or not, it includes the asset in agroup period during which the employees become unconditionally of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics entitled to payment.
The fair value is measured based and collectively assesses them for impairment.
In assessing on avaluation model taking into account the terms and collective impairment the Group uses statistical modelling of conditions of the grant.
The liability is revalued at each historic trends to assess the probability of agroup of financial balance sheet date and settlement date with any changes to assets going into default and the subsequent loss incurred.
fair value being recognised in profit or loss.
Regular model monitoring is performed to ensure model assumptions remain appropriate.
g Impairment losses The Group assesses its financial assets or groups of financial Assets that are individually assessed and for which an assets for objective evidence of impairment at each balance impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised if aloss event or included in acollective assessment of impairment.
events has occurred after initial recognition, and on or before If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans the balance sheet date, that has areliably measurable impact and receivables has been incurred, the amount of the loss on the estimated future cash flows of the financial assets or is measured as the difference between the asset carrying groups of financial assets.
Losses incurred as aresult of events amount and the present value of the estimated future cash occurring after the balance sheet date are not recognised in flows excluding future credit losses that have not been these financial statements.
incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective Assets held at amortised cost interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an impairment allowance and the amount The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for When aloan or receivable is uncollectible, it is written off financial assets that are not individually significant.
Objective against the related provision for loan impairment.
Such evidence that afinancial asset is impaired includes observable loans are written off after all the necessary procedures data that comes to the attention of the Group about the have been completed and the amount of the loss has been following loss events: determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are recognised directly in the income statement.
there is evidence of the customer or issuer experiencing If, in asubsequent period, the amount of the impairment financial difficulty: loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively there is abreach of contract, such as adefault or to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised delinquency in repayments: such as an improvement in the customers credit rating, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the customer is granted aconcession that would the impairment allowance.
The amount of the reversal is otherwise not be considered: recognised in profit or loss.
the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial A provision is also made in the case of accounts, which reorganisation: may not currently be in arrears, where losses may have the disappearance of an active market for that financial been incurred but not yet recognised.
An increased level asset because of financial difficulties: and ofprovision is held for accounts where an impairment trigger event has occurred which includes accounts benefiting from observable data indicating that there is ameasurable forbearance and those in arrears.
Refer to page 156 of the Risk decrease in the estimated future cash flows from Management Report for details of the forbearance policy.
aportfolio of assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot yet be h Taxation identified with the individual financial assets in the Taxation comprises current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax portfolio, including: and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that they relate to items recognised directly in equity 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 1-20 reflowed.
indd 224 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 225 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation continued or other comprehensive income.
Current tax is based on the date, the date on which the Group commits to purchase or taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted sell the asset.
or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any Loans and receivables at amortised cost adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
The The Groups loans and advances to banks and customers Group has adopted the Code of Practice on Taxation for Banks and some investment securities are classified as loans issued by HM Revenue and Customs.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative Further disclosures relating to deferred tax are included financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are in policy s. not quoted in an active market, whose recoverability is based solely on the credit risk of the customer and where the Group i Earnings per share has no intention of trading the loan or receivable.
Loans and Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit receivables are initially recognised at fair value including attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company direct and incremental transaction costs.
Subsequent by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares recognition is at amortised cost using the effective interest outstanding during the period excluding own shares held in rate method, less any provision for impairment.
employee benefit trusts or held for trading.
Available-for-sale financial assets The diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the profit or loss that is attributable to ordinary shareholders and Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative assets the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding that are either designated as available-for-sale or are assets for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which that do not meet the definition of loans and receivables and comprise share options granted to employees.
are not derivatives or assets held at fair value through profit or loss.
These are principally but not exclusively investment For the calculation of diluted earnings per share the weightedsecurities intended to be held for an indefinite period of average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to time which may be sold in response to aneed for liquidity assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, if or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity any, that arise in respect of share options and rewards granted prices.
They are initially measured at fair value including to employees.
The number of shares that could have been direct and incremental transaction costs.
Fair values are acquired at the average annual share price of the Companys obtained from quoted market prices in active markets and, shares based on the monetary value of the subscription where these are not available, from valuation techniques rights attached to outstanding share options and awards including discounted cash flow models refer to policy is determined.
This is deducted from the number of shares m. With the exception of unquoted equity instruments issuable under such options and awards to leave aresidual measured at cost less impairment because their fair value bonus amount of shares which are added to the weightedcannot be measured reliably, subsequent measurement is average number of ordinary shares in issue, but no adjustment at fair value, with changes in fair value being recognised is made to the profit attributable to equity shareholders.
in other comprehensive income except for impairment losses and translation differences, which are recognised j Financial instruments in profit or loss.
Upon derecognition of the asset, or where Financial assets there is objective evidence that the investment security Financial assets can be classified in the following categories: is impaired, the cumulative gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income are removed from other loans and receivables: comprehensive income and recycled to profit or loss.
available-for-sale: Held to maturity financial assets held to maturity: or Held to maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
assets with fixed or determinable payments that the Group has the ability and intention to hold to maturity.
They Management determines the classification of its financial are initially measured at fair value including direct and instruments at initial recognition.
The Group measures all of incremental transaction costs.
Subsequent measurement is its financial liabilities at amortised cost, other than derivatives at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
and those instruments which have been designated as part of No financial assets were classified as held to maturity during ahedging relationship refer policy n. Purchases and sales either the current or prior year.
of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, held to maturity and available-for-sale are recognised on the trade 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 1-20 reflowed.
indd 225 01 03 2016 11:38 226 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation continued Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss derecognise financial assets only when the contractual right to the cash flows from the financial asset expires or when the This category consists of derivative financial assets.
Assets Group transfers the financial assets to another party provided in this category are carried at fair value.
The fair values of the transfer of the asset also transfers the right to receive derivative instruments are calculated by discounted cash the cash flows of the financial asset or where the Group has flow models using yield curves that are based on observable transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
market data or are based on valuations obtained from Where the transfer does not result in the Group transferring counterparties.
Gains and losses arising from the changes in the right to receive the cash flows of the financial assets, but it the fair values are recognised in profit or loss.
does result in the Group assuming acorresponding obligation The fair values of quoted investments in active markets are to pay the cash flows to another recipient, the financial assets based on current bid prices.
If the market for afinancial asset are also accordingly derecognised.
The Group derecognises is not active and for unlisted securities, the Group establishes financial liabilities only when the obligation specified in the fair value using valuation techniques.
These include the contract is discharged, converted to shares, cancelled or use of recent arms length transactions, discounted cash has expired or is transferred to athird party.
There were no flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation transactions in the year where the Group transferred financial techniques commonly used by market participants.
assets that should have been derecognised in their entirety.
Financial liabilities k Loans and advances to banks Borrowings, including deposits and debt securities in issue The Groups loans and advances to banks are classified as are recognised initially at fair value, being the issue proceeds loans and receivables.
net of premiums, discounts and transaction costs incurred.
l Loans and advances to customers All borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost The Groups loans and advances to customers are classified as using the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is loans and receivables.
adjusted for the amortisation of any premiums, discounts and transaction costs.
The amortisation is recognised in interest Further details of the application of the effective interest rate expense and similar charges using the effective interest rate method are included in policy b and provision for impairment method.
The Group does not hold any financial liabilities in policy g. classified as held for trading.
m Available-for-sale financial assets Offsetting financial instruments Debt securities are designated as either available-for-sale or Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount loans and receivables.
Debt securities are principally availablereported in the balance sheet when there is alegally for-sale as they are intended to be held for an indefinite period enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there of time but may be sold in response to aneed for liquidity or is an intention to settle on anet basis, or realise the asset and changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices.
Debt settle the liability simultaneously.
securities classified as loans and receivables are asset backed securities for which there is no active market.
Sale and repurchase agreements The Groups debt securities, treasury bills and equity Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements repos are instruments are classified as available-for-sale assets.
For reclassified in the financial statements as assets pledged available-for-sale financial assets, the Group assesses at each when the transferee has the right by contract or custom balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that to sell or repledge the collateral.
The counterparty liability afinancial asset, or group of financial assets are impaired.
is included in amounts due to other banks, deposits from The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between banks, other deposits or deposits due to customers, as the assets acquisition cost less principal repayments and appropriate.
Securities purchased under agreements to resell amortisation and the current fair value.
The amount of reverse repos are recorded as loans and advances to banks the impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss.
This or customers as appropriate.
The difference between sale includes cumulative gains and losses previously recognised and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over in other comprehensive income which are recycled from the life of the agreements using the effective interest rate other comprehensive income to the income statement.
Securities lent to counterparties are also retained in asubsequent period, the fair value of an instrument classified the financial statements.
as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss is Derecognition is the point at which the Group removes an reversed through profit or loss.
asset or liability from its balance sheet.
The Groups policy is to 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 1-20 reflowed.
indd 226 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 227 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation continued n Derivative financial instruments and hedge Fair value hedges accounting A fair value hedge is used to hedge exposures to variability The Group is authorised to undertake the following types of in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities, such as derivative financial instrument transactions for non-trading fixed rate loans.
Changes in fair value of derivatives that are purposes: cross currency swaps, interest rate swaps, equity designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in swaps, interest rate caps, forward rate agreements, options, the income statement, together with any changes in the fair foreign exchange contracts and similar instruments.
value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for The Groups derivative activities are entered into for the hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of purpose of matching or eliminating risk from potential the hedged item is amortised to the income statement over movements in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and the period to maturity.
equity exposures inherent in the Groups assets, liabilities and positions.
All derivative transactions are for economic hedging The most frequently used fair value hedges are: purposes and it is decided at the outset which position the hedging the interest rate risk of aportfolio of prepayable derivative will be hedging.
Derivatives are reviewed regularly fixed rate assets with interest rate derivatives.
This for their effectiveness as hedges and corrective action taken, solution is used to establish amacro fair value hedge for if appropriate.
Derivatives are measured initially at fair value derivatives hedging fixed rate mortgages: and subsequently remeasured to fair value.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets and, hedging the interest rate risk of aportfolio of fixed rate where these are not available, from valuation techniques liabilities with interest rate derivatives.
This solution is including discounted cash flow models and option pricing used to establish amacro fair value hedge for derivatives models.
Where derivatives are not designated as part of hedging fixed rate savings: ahedging relationship, changes in fair value are recorded hedging the interest rate risk of aportfolio of nonin the income statement.
Where derivatives are designated prepayable fixed rate assets with interest rate derivatives.
within hedging relationships, the treatment of the changes in This solution is used to establish amacro fair value hedge fair value depends on the nature of the hedging relationship for fixed rate investments: and as explained below.
hedging the interest rate and foreign currency exchange Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this risk of non-prepayable, foreign currency denominated way provided certain criteria are met.
The Group documents fixed rate assets or liabilities on aone-for-one basis at the inception of the hedge relationship the link between with fixed floating or floating fixed cross currency the hedging instrument and the hedged item as well as its interest rate swaps.
risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its o Securitisation transactions assessment both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis Certain Group companies have issued debt securities in of whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions are order to finance specific loans and advances to customers.
highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair values or Both the debt securities in issue and the loans and advances cash flows of hedged items.
The Group designates certain to customers remain on the Group balance sheet within the derivatives as either: appropriate balance sheet headings unless: Cash flow hedges a fully proportional share of all or of specifically identified A cash flow hedge is used to hedge exposures to variability in cash flows have been transferred to the holders of the cash flows, such as variable rate financial assets and liabilities.
debt securities, in which case that proportion of the assets The effective portion of changes in the derivative fair value is are derecognised: recognised in other comprehensive income, and recycled to substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the the income statement in the periods when the hedged item assets have been transferred, in which case the assets are will affect profit and loss.
Interest rate derivatives designated fully derecognised: and as cash flow hedges primarily hedge the exposure to cash flow vulnerability from forecast loans and advances to customers.
a significant proportion of the risks and rewards have been The fair value gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is transferred, in which case the assets are recognised only recognised immediately in profit or loss.
to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement.
indd 227 01 03 2016 11:38 228 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation continued The Group has also entered into self-issuance of securitised Transaction costs, other than those associated with debt which may be used as collateral for repurchase or the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group similar transactions.
Investments in self-issued debt and the incurs in connection with abusiness combination are equivalent deemed loan, together with the related income, expensed as incurred.
expense and cash flows, are eliminated on consolidation in the Any contingent consideration payable is measured at fair financial statements.
value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is Debt securities in issue classified as equity, then it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes in Issued securities are classified as liabilities where the the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised contractual arrangements result in the Group having an in profit or loss.
obligation to deliver either cash or another financial asset to the security holder, or to exchange financial instruments q Intangible assets and amortisation under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Intangible assets purchased separately from abusiness Group.
Issued securities are classified as equity where they combination are capitalised at their cost and amortised meet the definition of equity and confer aresidual interest in from the date from which they become available for use over the Groups assets on the holder of the securities.
their useful economic life which is generally 3 to 10years.
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition are Financial liabilities are carried at amortised cost using capitalised at their fair value where this can be measured the effective interest rate method see policy j.
Equity reliably in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
instruments are initially recognised at net proceeds, after deducting transaction costs and any related income tax.
Expenditure incurred in relation to scoping, planning and Appropriations to holders of equity securities are deducted researching the build of an asset as part of aproject is from equity, net of any related income tax, as they become expensed as incurred.
irrevocably due to the holders of the securities.
Development expenditure incurred on aproject is capitalised Securitisation is ameans used by the Group to fund an only if the following criteria are met: element of its mortgage portfolio.
These securitised advances an asset is created that can be identified: are subject to non-recourse finance arrangements.
These advances have been transferred at their principal value it is probable that the asset created will generate future to Special Purpose Vehicles SPV and have been funded economic benefits: and through the issue of amortising mortgage backed securities the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Following the initial recognition of development expenditure, As discussed in note 1.5, the Group controls the securitisation the cost is amortised over the estimated useful lives of the SPVs and therefore consolidates the assets and liabilities of assets created.
Amortisation commences on the date that the the securitisation SPVs, on aline by line basis.
asset is brought into use.
p Business combinations Internally generated intangible assets relate to computer Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition software and core banking platforms.
method as at the acquisition date, being when control is Computer software transferred to the Group.
Control is having the power over an investee, exposure or rights to variable returns from its Costs incurred in acquiring and developing computer software involvement with the investee and the ability to use its power for internal use are capitalised as intangible assets where to affect those returns.
the software leads to the creation of an identifiable nonmonetary asset and it is probable that the expected future The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as the economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow fair value of the consideration transferred less the fair value of to the Group from its use for aperiod of over one year.
The the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
software is classified as an intangible asset where it is not an When the excess is negative, the negative goodwill is integral part of the related hardware and amortised over its recognised immediately in profit or loss.
estimated useful life on astraight line basis which is generally The consideration transferred does not include amounts 3 to 10 years.
related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such Costs associated with maintaining software are expensed as amounts are generally recognised in profit or loss.
indd 228 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 229 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation continued Core deposit intangible the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Additions and subsequent The core deposit intangible was recognised on acquisition expenditure are included in the assets carrying value or are of Northern Rock plc now renamed Virgin Money plc.
It was recognised as aseparate asset only when they improve the recognised in respect of the intrinsic value of the retail savings expected future economic benefits to be derived from the book acquired.
This will be amortised over its remaining useful asset.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the life of one year.
income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Goodwill Depreciation is provided using the straight line method to Purchased goodwill representing the excess of the fair value allocate costs less residual values over estimated useful of the consideration given over the fair value of the separable lives, as follows: net assets acquired arising on business combinations in Freehold property 50-100 years respect of acquisitions since 1 January 1998 is capitalised.
Leasehold property Unexpired Positive goodwill is held on the balance sheet and tested for period of the lease impairment annually.
Plant and leasehold improvements 5-30 years Core banking platforms Computer equipment 3-5 years Core banking platforms primarily represent the construction Office equipment 3-10 years of core operating platforms, which are internally generated.
Motor vehicles 4 years Core banking platforms are amortised on astraight line basis over 3 to 10 years.
The residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Where Impairment of intangible assets the cost of freehold land can be identified separately from Intangible assets are assessed for indications of impairment buildings, the land is not depreciated.
Tangible fixed assets are at each balance sheet date, or more frequently where subject to impairment testing, as appropriate.
required by events or changes in circumstances.
If indications Impairment of tangible fixed assets of impairment are found, these assets are subject to an impairment review.
The impairment review compares the Tangible fixed assets are assessed for indications of carrying value of the assets with their recoverable amounts, impairment at each balance sheet date, or more frequently which are defined as the higher of the fair value less costs where required by events or changes in circumstances.
If to sell and their value in use.
Fair value less costs to sell is indications of impairment are found, these assets are subject the amount at which the asset could be sold in abinding to an impairment review.
The impairment review compares agreement in an arms length transaction.
Value in use is the carrying value of the assets with their recoverable calculated as the discounted cash flows generated as aresult amount, which are defined as the higher of the fair value less of the assets continued use including those generated by its costs to sell and their value in use.
Fair value less costs to sell ultimate disposal, discounted at amarket rate of interest on is the amount at which the asset could be sold in abinding apre-tax basis.
agreement in an arms length transaction.
Value in use is calculated as the discounted cash flows generated as aresult Where impairments are indicated, the carrying values of of the assets continued use including those generated by its intangible assets are written down by the amount of the ultimate disposal, discounted at amarket rate of interest on impairment and the charge is recognised in the income apre-tax basis.
statement in the period in which it occurs.
Apreviously recognised impairment charge on afixed asset may be Where impairments are indicated, the carrying values of fixed reversed in full or in part where achange in circumstances assets are written down by the amount of the impairment leads to achange in the estimates used to determine its and the charge is recognised in the income statement in the recoverable amount.
The carrying value of the intangible period in which it occurs.
Apreviously recognised impairment asset will only be increased to the carrying value at charge on afixed asset may be reversed in full or in part where which it would have been held had the impairment not achange in circumstances leads to achange in the estimates been recognised.
used to determine its recoverable amount.
The carrying value of the fixed asset will only be increased to the carrying value r Tangible fixed assets and depreciation at which it would have been held had the impairment not Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated been recognised.
depreciation and provision for impairment, as appropriate.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 1-20 reflowed.
indd 229 01 03 2016 11:38 230 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation continued s Deferred tax y Share capital and share premium Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences Share capital between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for The financial instruments issued by the Company are treated financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for as equity i. e. forming part of shareholders funds only to the taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates extent that they meet the following two conditions: that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they include no contractual obligations upon the they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to substantively enacted by the reporting date.
exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses, tax another party under conditions that are potentially credits and deductible temporary differences, to the extent that unfavourable to the Group: and it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against where the instrument will or may be settled in the which they can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at Companys own equity instruments, it is either each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no anon-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
avariable number of the Companys own equity t Other assets instruments or is aderivative that will be settled by Other assets include prepayments and other amounts the the Company exchanging afixed amount of cash or Group is due to receive from third parties in the normal other financial assets for afixed number of its own course of business.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of u Deposits from banks issue are classified as afinancial liability.
Deposits by banks are initially measured at fair value, which is normally the proceeds received net of any directly attributable Share issue costs transaction costs incurred.
Subsequent measurement is at Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
shares or options are shown in equity as adeduction, net of v Customer deposits tax, from the proceeds.
Customer deposits are initially measured at fair value, which is Dividends and appropriations normally the proceeds received.
Subsequent measurement is Dividends are recognised in equity in the period in which they at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
are approved by the Companys shareholders or paid.
w Provisions Share premium Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising from Share premium substantially represents the aggregate of past events where it is more likely than not that an outflow of all amounts that have ever been paid above par value to resources will be required to settle the obligations and they the Company when it has issued ordinary and non-voting can be estimated reliably.
Certain expenses in relation to the issue A provision for bank levies is recognised when the condition of share capital can be offset against the share premium that triggers the payment of the levy is met.
These expenses must be the incremental expenses obligation is subject to aminimum activity threshold so arising on issue of the shares.
that the obligating event is reaching aminimum activity, z Other equity instruments then aprovision is recognised when that minimum activity threshold is reached.
Issued financial instruments are recognised as equity where there is no contractual obligation to deliver either cash or x Other liabilities another financial asset.
The proceeds are included in equity, Deferred income represents amounts received in advance net of transaction costs.
Dividends and other returns to equity of the Group providing services, and will be recognised as holders are treated as adeduction from equity.
income in profit or loss when the services have been provided.
aa Other reserves Other creditors represent amounts the Group is due to pay to Available-for-sale reserve third parties in the normal course of business.
These include expense accruals, which have been incurred, but not yet billed.
The available-for-sale reserve represents the unrealised change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments Accrued expenses are amounts that the Group is due to pay to since initial recognition.
third parties in the normal course of business.
indd 230 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 231 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation continued Cash flow hedge reserve Portfolios of financial assets and financial liabilities that are exposed to market risk and credit risk that are managed by For derivatives designated in acash flow hedge, the effective the Group on the basis of the net exposure to either market or portion of changes in fair value is recognised in the cash flow credit risk, are measured on the basis of aprice that would be hedge reserve and recycled to profit or loss in the periods received to sell anet long position or transferred to sell anet when the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
short position for aparticular risk exposure.
Those portfolio risk adjustments are allocated to the individual assets and ab Contingent liabilities liabilities on the basis of the relative risk adjustment of each of Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence the individual instruments in the portfolio.
depends upon the outcome of uncertain future events or are present obligations where the outflows of resources 1.10 Critical estimates and judgements are uncertain or cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but The preparation of financial statements in conformity with are disclosed unless they are remote.
IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting ac Fair value of financial assets and liabilities policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts an asset or paid to transfer aliability in an orderly transaction of income and expenses during the reporting period.
Although between market participants at the measurement date in the these estimates are based on managements best knowledge principal, or in its absence, the most advantageous market of the amount, actual results ultimately may differ from to which the Group has access at that date.
The fair value of those estimates.
aliability reflects its non-performance risk.
The areas involving ahigher degree of judgement or For the majority of instruments, fair value is determined with complexity, or where assumptions and estimates are reference to quoted prices in an active market.
Amarket is significant to the 2015 financial statements were as follows: regarded as active if transactions for the asset or liability take a Effective interest rates place with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
IAS 39 requires interest earned from mortgages and credit cards to be measured under the effective interest rate Refer to note 34 for adescription of different levels within the method.
Management must therefore use judgement fair value hierarchy.
Levels are reviewed at each balance sheet to estimate the expected life of each instrument and date and this determines where transfers between levels hence the expected future cash flows relating to it.
accuracy of the effective interest rate would therefore be Where quoted prices are not available, fair value is based upon affected by unexpected market movements resulting in cash flow models, which use wherever possible independently altered customer behaviour, inaccuracies in the models or sourced observable market parameters such as interest rate incorrect assumptions.
yield curves, currency rates and option volatilities.
The chosen If the estimated life of secured loans were increased or valuation technique incorporates all the factors that market reduced by one month, the value of such loans on the balance participants would take into account in pricing atransaction sheet would be increased or decreased by 3.6 million and is discounted at arisk free rate.
2014: 2.5 million and 3.7 million 2014: 2.6 million The best evidence of the fair value of afinancial instrument respectively.
at initial recognition is normally the transaction price i. e. If the estimated life of credit cards were increased or the fair value of consideration given or received.
The Group reduced by one month, the value of such assets on does not apply acredit valuation adjustment CVA or the balance sheet would be increased or decreased debit valuation adjustment DVA to reflect the credit risk by 1.1 million 2014: 0.6 million and 1.1 million of its derivative exposures as the Groups portfolio is fully 2014: 0.5 million respectively.
b Impairment of loans and receivables If an asset or aliability measured at fair value has abid price and an ask price, the Group measures assets and long Individual impairment losses on secured loans and advances positions at bid price and liabilities and short positions are calculated based on an individual valuation of the at an ask price.
Collective impairment losses on loans and advances are calculated using astatistical model.
indd 231 01 03 2016 11:38 232 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation continued The key assumptions used in the model are the probability of A review of intangible assets which are not yet in use for default: the probability of this default resulting in possession indications of impairment is undertaken at each reporting and or write off: and the subsequent loss incurred.
If there are indicators of impairment, an estimate of assumptions are monitored regularly to ensure the impairment the recoverable amount is made.
The recoverable amount of allowance is entirely reflective of the current portfolio.
the asset is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the The accuracy of the impairment calculation would therefore future cash flows both costs to complete and benefits post be affected by unanticipated changes to the economic completion generated from the continuing use of the asset.
environment and assumptions which differ from actual If the carrying value of the asset is less than the greater of the outcomes.
For mortgage loan receivables to the extent that: value in use and the fair value less costs to sell, an impairment the loss given default differs by - 10%, for example charge is recognised.
if the loss given default is 10% then it is increased to Through their assessment of intangible assets and review for 11%, the impairment allowance would be an estimated impairment indicators Management have not identified any 0.3 million 2014: 0.2 million higher or 0.3 million assets that have an impairment, therefore anil impairment 2014: 0.2 million lower respectively: charge has been recognised 2014: nil.
the level of house prices differs by - 10%, for example d Deferred tax aproperty value of 100,000 is increased to 110,000, Taxation involves estimation techniques to assess the the impairment allowance would be an estimated liability in terms of possible outcomes.
The assessment of the 1.3 million 2014: 0.7 million lower or 3.0 million recoverability or otherwise of deferred tax assets is based 2014: 3.4 million higher respectively: mainly on adetermination of whether the relevant entity the emergence period of 6 months differs by - 3months, will generate sufficient profits within 5 years to realise the the impairment allowance would be an estimated deferred tax assets.
0.2 million 2014: 0.1 million higher or 0.2 million This is reviewed at each reporting date by the Directors with 2014: 0.1 million lower respectively.
adetailed exercise conducted to establish the validity of profit For credit card receivables, to the extent that the loss given forecasts and other relevant information including timescales default differs by - 10%, the impairment allowance would over which the profits are expected to arise and the deferred be an estimated 2.9 million 2014: 2.7 million higher tax assets will reverse.
Deferred tax is determined using tax or 2.9 million 2014: 2.7 million lower respectively, and rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the to the extent the emergence period of 6 months differs balance sheet date and which are expected to apply when the by -3months, the impairment allowance would be related deferred tax assets are realised or the deferred tax an estimated 3.8 million 2014: 2.0 million higher or liabilities are settled.
The judgement required in the assessment of whether to c Capitalisation and impairment of intangibles recognise deferred tax assets is set out in policy s. Adeferred Intangibles are initially recognised when they are separable taxation asset in respect of the subsidiary Virgin Money or arise from contractual or other legal rights, the cost can plc was not recognised at acquisition on 1 January 2012 be measured reliably and, in the case of intangible assets but subsequently recognised because in the period since not acquired in abusiness combination, where it is probable acquisition, Management have taken certain actions to have that future economic benefits attributable to the assets greater certainty about the profitability going forward.
Management review and monitor Based on their interpretation of the timing and level of the capitalisation of significant project development costs reversal of existing taxable temporary differences, in line with on aregular basis to ensure that they meet the recognition relevant accounting standards, the Directors conclude that criteria for capitalisation of an intangible asset and to anet deferred tax asset of 38.0 million 2014: 50.2 million ensure the costs are directly attributable to the individual should be recognised at the balance sheet date.
projects where an asset is under construction.
Areview of capitalisation of intangibles has been undertaken to ensure these conditions have been met.
indd 232 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 233 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation continued e Fair value of financial assets and liabilities Tax uncertainty Management must use judgement and estimates calculating The degree of judgement and uncertainty involved in fair value where not all necessary inputs are observable or determining the Groups provision for income taxation, where factors specific to the Groups holdings need to be deferred taxation assets and liabilities and potential taxation considered.
The accuracy of the fair value calculations would liabilities was more significant in 2014.
The ultimate outcome therefore be affected by unexpected market movements, of certain tax matters is considered more certain.
inaccuracies within the models used compared to actual Disposal group classification and measurement outcomes and incorrect assumptions.
For example, if Management were to use atightening in the credit spread The Group fully disposed of its interests in Church House of ten basis points, the fair values of liabilities including Trust CHT on 30 November 2014 and there are no disposal derivatives would increase from the reported fair values by group assets or liabilities recognised at 31 December 2014 or 25.7 million 2014: 23.3 million.
Provisions and contingent liabilities Estimates and judgements significant to the 2014 financial statements Provision values and determining whether to recognise The following were considered as estimates and judgements contingent liabilities are both based on the best information significant to the financial statements for the year ended available at the reporting date, and the degree of judgement 31 December 2014: and uncertainty is not considered as significant as in 2014.
Fair value of share based payments Additional Northern Rock consideration The fair values of share awards granted in 2014 were The final payment to HM Treasury in respect of additional calculated using statistical models, requiring application of consideration of 50.0 million was made in 2014.
With no management judgement on the inputs to these models.
The further payments to come, no estimation uncertainty exists.
nature of schemes with awards granted in 2015 are such that Additional information on the above estimates and there is a reduced degree of judgement and complexity in judgements is provided in the Virgin Money Group Annual calculations for the 2015 financial statements.
indd 233 01 03 2016 11:38 234 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 2: Operating segments Segmental reporting products to customer needs.
The Group will continue its presence in the balance transfer market and further diversify For Management reporting purposes, the Group is organised the product range.
into the following business groupings: Mortgages and savings: Current accounts, insurance and investments Credit cards: Current accounts, insurance and investments include current Current accounts, insurance and investments: and accounts and other financial products.
products are those offered beyond the core products of savings, mortgages and credit cards and include investments, These business groupings reflect how the Executive assesses international money transfers, travel money, pensions, performance and makes decisions regarding the allocation lifeinsurance, travel insurance, home insurance, motor of resources to the business on the basis of product and insurance and pet insurance.
Internal and external sources of revenue are allocated to the appropriate business segment.
Central functions Mortgages and savings Central functions provide shared support services to each of the Groups business lines and Virgin Money Giving VMG.
Mortgage products include Residential and Buy-to-Let These services include information technology and property mortgages.
The Group also participates in the Help to Buy along with central services such as Risk, Finance, Human Scheme and the Help to Buy Equity Loan Scheme.
The savings Resources and Management.
It is not the policy of the Group products currently include ISAs, easy access and fixed to allocate the cost of these shared services to each business term accounts.
All depreciation and amortisation is allocated to the central functions business line.
Credit cards The Group does not manage Treasury as aprofit centre, and The Credit Card business was previously delivered through so the interest expense incurred from its Group funding and asuccessful partnership with MBNA.
In March 2015 the Group liquidity operations has been allocated to the other business successfully migrated over 675,000 customer accounts to its lines.
Treasury is not engaged in trading activities.
This resulted in an in-house capability to issue functions segment assets and liabilities includes fixed assets credit cards and manage the portfolio.
The Groups credit card and treasury assets and liabilities.
manufacturing capability was developed in partnership with leading credit card systems provider TSYS.
Due to the nature of the Groups operations there are no inter-segmental transactions.
The capability of the new platform allows the Group to respond to market conditions more quickly and better align 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 1-20 reflowed.
indd 234 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 235 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 2: Operating segments continued Current accounts, Mortgages insurance and Central Underlying and savings Credit cards investments functions basis total m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2015 Net interest income 358.5 97.6 456.1 Other income 2.5 18.0 36.6 9.9 67.0 Total underlying income 361.0 115.6 36.6 9.9 523.1 Total costs 92.7 37.1 16.7 186.0 332.5 Impairment 3.0 27.3 30.3 Underlying profit loss before tax 265.3 51.2 19.9 176.1 160.3 Segment assets 25,457.9 1,585.2 2.3 3,183.6 30,229.0 Segment liabilities 25,063.3 4.0 235.5 3,585.9 28,888.7 Current accounts, Mortgages insurance and Central Underlying 1 and savings Credit cards investments functions basis total m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2014 Net interest income 291.0 75.1 366.1 Other income 3.1 25.2 32.8 11.0 72.1 Total underlying income 294.1 100.3 32.8 11.0 438.2 Total costs 85.7 40.5 13.5 177.9 317.6 Impairment 1.2 14.6 15.8 Underlying profit loss before tax 207.2 45.2 19.3 166.9 104.8 Segment assets 22,005.6 1,112.8 3.6 3,414.8 26,536.8 Segment liabilities 22,322.6 4.8 202.5 2,763.1 25,293.0 1 The FSCS Levy was previously excluded from underlying performance measures, but is now included in central functions as it is considered to be arecurring cost to the Group.
indd 235 01 03 2016 11:38 236 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 2: Operating segments continued Reconciliation of statutory results to underlying basis The underlying basis is the basis on which financial information is presented to the chief operating decision maker which excludes certain items included in the statutory results.
The table below reconciles the statutory results to the underlying basis.
Adjusted for Costs associated with listing Virgin Money Compensation Fees Group for senior Strategic Fair value Share based associated Underlying statutory leavers items adjustments payments with listing basis total m m m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2015 Net interest income 454.8 1.3 456.1 Other income 67.1 0.1 67.0 Total income 521.9 1.2 523.1 Total operating expenses 353.6 3.7 7.4 0.5 10.5 332.5 Profit before tax from 168.3 3.7 7.4 0.7 10.5 190.6 operating activities Impairment 30.3 30.3 Profit before tax 138.0 3.7 7.4 0.7 10.5 160.3 Adjusted for Costs associated with listing Virgin Money Fees Group Strategic Fair value Share based associated Underlying 1 statutory items adjustments payments with listing basis total m m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2014 Net interest income 367.3 1.2 366.1 Other income 71.0 1.1 72.1 Total income 438.3 0.1 438.2 Total operating expenses 351.5 9.0 1.0 11.3 12.6 317.6 Profit before tax from operating activities 86.8 9.0 0.9 11.3 12.6 120.6 Impairment 15.8 15.8 Gain on sale of subsidiary 4.5 4.5 Additional Northern Rock consideration 36.0 36.0 Premium on repurchase ofNon-core Tier 1 notes 4.5 4.5 Loss for the year of disposal group 1.0 1.0 Profit before tax 34.0 46.0 0.9 11.3 12.6 104.8 1 The FSCS Levy was previously excluded from underlying performance measures, but is now included in central functions as it is considered to be arecurring cost to the Group.
Geographical areas As the Groups operating activities are exclusively in the UK, further analysis is not provided.
indd 236 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 237 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3: Net interest income Net interest income comprises: 1 2015 2014 m m Interest and similar income: Loans and advances to customers 822.4 751.8 Loans and advances to banks 2.4 1.7 Debt securities classified as loans and receivables 0.1 Interest receivable on loans and receivables 824.8 753.6 Available-for-sale financial assets 10.5 11.5 Cash and balances at central banks 4.0 5.9 Other interest 0.6 Total interest and similar income 839.3 771.6 Interest and similar expense: Deposits from banks including liabilities under sale and repurchase agreements 6.8 3.3 Customer deposits 342.7 373.3 Debt securities in issue 29.0 23.6 Other 6.0 4.1 Total interest and similar expense 384.5 404.3 Net interest income 454.8 367.3 1 Items within interest income and expense have been reclassified to better reflect the interest bearing assets and liabilities to which they relate.
Interest accrued on individually impaired assets was 6.8 million 2014: 6.8 million.
Note 4: Net fee and commission income Net fee and commission income comprises: 2015 2014 m m Fee and commission income: On loans and advances to customers 21.0 28.9 Other fee and commission income 6.4 6.2 Total fee and commission income 27.4 35.1 Fee and commission expense: Other fee and commission expense 1.2 1.1 Net fee and commission income 26.2 34.0 Other fee and commission expense includes bank servicing costs and bank charges.
indd 237 01 03 2016 11:38 238 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 5: Other operating income Other operating income comprises: 2015 2014 m m Investment income 31.5 28.7 Gain on sale of available-for-sale assets refer note 16 8.8 7.5 Other 1.0 0.7 Total other operating income 41.3 36.9 Total other operating income is derived in the United Kingdom and relates to trade with third parties and continuing operations.
Note 6: Total operating expenses Total operating expenses comprise: 2015 2014 m m Staff costs Salaries 138.9 125.6 Social security costs 16.2 14.3 Other pension costs 10.6 9.6 Employee share option schemes 20.0 13.5 185.7 163.0 Premises and equipment Hire of equipment 4.6 4.8 Rent and rates 9.0 8.5 13.6 13.3 Other expenses Marketing costs 22.3 16.5 FSCS levy 12.5 16.4 Professional fees 10.7 8.5 Other 89.2 106.4 134.7 147.8 Depreciation and amortisation Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 8.4 8.0 Amortisation of intangible assets 11.2 6.8 19.6 14.8 Total other operating expenses 353.6 338.9 Fees associated with listing 12.6 Total operating expenses 353.6 351.5 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 1-20 reflowed.
indd 238 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 239 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6: Total operating expenses continued Average headcount Retirement benefit obligations The monthly average number of persons including Directors The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes employed by the Group was as follows: for its Directors and employees.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently 2015 2014 administered funds.
Full time 2,359 2,244 The Group made contributions of 10.5 million Part time 699 660 2014: 9.6 million during the year.
There were no Total 3,058 2,904 contributions overdue at the year end 2014: nil.
Fees payable to the auditor During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Groups auditor as detailed below: 2015 2014 m m Fees payable for the audit of the current year annual report and accounts 0.3 0.2 Fees payable for other services: Audit of the subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.7 Total audit fees 0.9 0.9 Audit-related assurance services 0.2 0.2 Total audit and audit-related fees 1.1 1.1 Services relating to taxation: Taxation services 0.2 Total taxation related fees 0.2 Other non-audit fees: Services relating to corporate finance transactions 1.3 Other assurance services 0.2 0.7 Total other non-audit fees 0.2 2.0 Total fees payable to the auditor by the Group 1.3 3.3 All amounts are shown exclusive of VAT.
The following types of services are included in the categories listed above: Audit and audit-related fees This category includes fees in respect of the audit of the Groups annual financial statements and other services in connection with regulatory filings and services for assurance and related services that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of the financial statements.
Other non-audit fees Included within the total other non-audit fees of 2.0 million within 2014 are fees in relation to the listing of the Group which totalled 1.9 million exclusive of VAT.
indd 239 01 03 2016 11:38 240 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 7: Share based payments Share based payments charges comprise: 2015 2014 m m Equity settled 20.0 12.9 Cash settled 0.6 Total share based payment charge 20.0 13.5 The scheme details are summarised below.
Equity settled schemes 1 2 Award plan Eligible employees Nature of award Vesting conditions Issue dates A IPO incentive Selected senior Conditional share Continuing employment or leavers in certain 2013 scheme employees award circumstances B Phantom share Selected senior Deferred bonus Continuing employment or leavers in certain 2012 & 2013 award employees conditional share circumstances award C Recruitment award Two senior Conditional share Continuing employment or leavers in certain 2013 employees award circumstances D Long-term incentive Selected senior Conditional share Continuing employment or leavers in certain 2015 plan employees award circumstances and achievement of performance conditions E IPO share award All employees Conditional share Continuing employment or leavers in certain 2014 excluding the award circumstances Groups Executive Committee F Deferred bonus Selected senior Deferred bonus Continuing employment or leavers in certain 2014 & 2015 share plan employees conditional share circumstances award 1 All awards have vesting conditions and therefore some may not vest.
2 Issue dates show the year in which issues have been made under the relevant scheme.
There could be further issuances in future years under the scheme.
The terms of the equity settled schemes the Group operated during the year are as follows: A IPO incentive scheme B Phantom share award The IPO incentive scheme was introduced in December 2013 In late 2012 anotional phantom share award for senior for selected senior employees.
Participants were entitled individuals was established.
The plan was designed to to receive shares in the event of alisting.
The award was comply with PRA requirements for deferral and clawback on apre-determined percentage of the listing value, which was treatment of variable remuneration.
In 2013 the award was then converted to anumber of Ordinary Shares based on the acash payment based on Tangible Net Asset Value TNAV listing price.
The fair value of the IPO incentive scheme was and was accounted for as along-term employee benefit.
determined at grant date using abinomial valuation model During 2014 the Remuneration Committee approved that and is being recorded in the income statement over the existing awards under this scheme would be converted into vesting period.
Ordinary Shares awards on listing, with no acceleration of During 2014 modifications were made to the scheme including vesting.
This resulted in achange in accounting treatment to removal of the minimum listing market value.
The impact an equity settled share based payment therefore during 2014 of each modification was determined at the modification the Group reclassified an existing liability of 4.2 million to date and is being recorded in the income statement over the equity.
The fair value of the converted award was recalculated remaining vesting period.
and is being recognised over the remaining vesting period within the income statement through to 2018.
indd 240 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 241 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 7: Share based payments continued C Recruitment award E IPO share award Under the scheme the participants received shares in On listing, the Group granted all employees below Executive 2014 and 2015 and will receive the final tranche of shares level aone-off share award.
Asmall number of senior in 2016.
No awards were granted in 2015 2014: none employees received an award over Ordinary Shares of either under this scheme.
All other employees received an award over Ordinary Shares with avalue of 1,000.
The majority of D Long-term incentive plan LTIP awards vested on the first anniversary of the listing.
Certain The LTIP introduced in 2014 is aimed at delivering shareholder awards granted to senior employees were subject to different value by linking the receipt of shares to performance vesting schedules, and holding periods, to comply with the measures that are based on delivering the Groups strategic PRA Remuneration Code.
Awards are made within F Deferred bonus share plan limits set by the rules of the plan.
The maximum number of shares that can be awarded equates to 120% of total annual The deferred bonus share plan is an equity settled scheme remuneration under normal circumstances.
that is operated in conjunction with the short term incentive plan for Executive Directors and other senior managers During 2015, selected senior employees of the Group were of the Group.
granted up to amaximum of 1,494,125 Ordinary Shares under the LTIP scheme.
To the extent that performance Share awards for the deferred element of 2015 bonuses will be measures are satisfied, the LTIP awards will vest equally granted under this scheme in 2016.
During 2015, awards over on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of the date of the 1,960,273 Ordinary Shares for 2014 bonuses were granted grant.
The performance period is three years commencing on to selected senior employees of the Group.
The awards have 1 January 2015. service conditions, with vesting dates in 2015, 2018 and 2019.
Details of the performance measures and weightings can be During 2015, awards over 72,410 Ordinary Shares were found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 135 granted under the scheme to three senior employees on of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
The awards were granted in recognition that the measures are non-market based conditions.
For each employees outstanding awards over shares in their previous performance measure, if performance reaches threshold, employing company lapsed on accepting employment with target or maximum, then 20%, 80% or 100% respectively the Group.
The awards have service conditions and vesting of this element of the award will vest.
Vesting between dates replicate those of the forfeited awards.
threshold, target and maximum will be calculated on The weighted-average fair value of awards granted during astraight line basis.
2015 was 4.04 based on market prices at the date of grant.
During 2015, awards over 233,645 Ordinary Shares were Participants may be entitled to any dividends paid during the granted under this scheme to three senior employees on vesting period if the service conditions are met.
The awards were granted in recognition that the employees outstanding awards over shares in their previous Cash settled schemes employing company lapsed on accepting employment with In 2015 there were no cash settled shared based the Group.
Vesting dates replicate those of the forfeited payment schemes.
One of the awards is subject to performance During 2014 cash payments of 1.7 million were made in conditions.
The performance measures mirror those relation to cash settled share based payment schemes, attached to the 2015 LTIP grant discussed above, however resulting in acharge of 0.6 million to the income statement in recognition of the earlier vesting dates in March 2016 and for the year ended 31 December 2014.
March 2017, performance will be assessed against the Groups strategic plan for financial years 2015 and 2016 respectively.
The weighted-average fair value of awards granted during 2015 was 4.04 based on market prices at the date of grant.
Participants may be entitled to any dividends paid during the vesting period if the performance measures and service conditions are met.
indd 241 01 03 2016 11:38 242 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 7: Share based payments continued Movement in share options and conditional shares Ordinary Shares Former Chairmans interest Phantom in share Recruitment share IPO share 1 2 2 2 options award award award Shares in existence at 1 January 2015 625,328 327,760 3,120,900 1,773,880 Granted in year Exercised or vested in year 151,950 1,431,866 Forfeited in year 59,080 202,973 Outstanding 31 December 2015 625,328 175,810 3,061,820 139,041 Of which exercisable 625,328 Ordinary Shares Long-term Deferred incentive bonus share IPO incentive 2 2 2 plan plan scheme Shares in existence at 1 January 2015 14,918 664,658 Granted in year 1,727,770 2,032,683 Exercised or vested in year 95,075 761,247 332,324 Less: forfeited in year 233,242 128,554 Outstanding at 31 December 2015 1,399,453 1,157,800 332,334 Of which exercisable 1 This scheme was set up for the previous Chairman, Sir David Clementi.
All share options granted under the scheme had vested as at 31 December 2014.
No share options have been exercised during 2015.
The weighted-average exercise price for options outstanding at 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015 was 2.15.
The options outstanding will expire 10 years from the date of listing ifnotexercised.
indd 242 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 243 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 7: Share based payments continued Ordinary Shares Former Chairmans Employee interest in share award Recruitment Phantom IPO share 1 2 2 2 share options plan award share award award Shares in existence at 1 January 2014 65,824 104,232 39,014 Modification to Phantom share award 312,090 3 Impact of share reorganisation 592,416 871,911 294,984 2,808,810 Granted in year 1,773,880 Exercised or vested in year 32,912 968,790 6,238 Forfeited in year 7,353 Outstanding 31 December 2014 625,328 327,760 3,120,900 1,773,880 Of which exercisable 625,328 Ordinary Shares A and B Ordinary Shares Long-term Deferred incentive bonus share IPO incentive 2 2 2,4 5 plan plan scheme Growth shares Shares in existence at 1 January 2014 1,123,407 Conversion of A and B Ordinary Shares 1,123,407 Crystallisation of IPO incentive scheme 1,661,631 Granted in year 105,448 14,918 Exercised or vested in year 105,448 996,973 Outstanding 31 December 2014 14,918 664,658 Of which exercisable 1 This scheme was set up for the previous Chairman, Sir David Clementi.
During 2014, 32,912 share options were exercised for aweighted-average exercise price of 2.15.
The weighted-average exercise price for options outstanding at 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014 was 2.15.
The options outstanding will expire 10 years from the date of listing if not exercised.
3 Immediately prior to listing, there was areorganisation of share capital.
4 The IPO incentive scheme was awarded as apercentage of the listing value, which is then converted to anumber of shares based on the listing price.
On listing 1,661,631 Ordinary Shares were awarded.
5 Growth shares were A and B Ordinary Shares.
The return on these shares on listing was calculated as set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
AOrdinary Shares were converted into 38,055 Ordinary Shares and 1,064,927 Deferred Shares.
B Ordinary Shares were converted into 9,192 Ordinary Shares and 92,936 Deferred Shares.
The Deferred Shares created on the conversion of the A and B Ordinary Shares were then cancelled.
indd 243 01 03 2016 11:38 244 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 8: Allowance for impairment losses on loans and receivables On secured On unsecured loans loans Total m m m At 1 January 2014 7.6 27.1 34.7 Advances written off 1.2 27.6 28.8 Gross charge to the income statement 1.2 23.5 24.7 At 31 December 2014 7.6 23.0 30.6 Advances written off 1.9 26.0 27.9 Gross charge to the income statement 3.0 34.2 37.2 As at 31 December 2015 8.7 31.2 39.9 Of the total allowance in respect of loans and advances to customers, 38.8 million 2014: 27.6 million was assessed on acollective basis.
During the year, sales of credit card receivables which had previously been written-off resulted in net recoveries of 6.9 million 2014: 8.9 million.
The full amount of the proceeds have been recognised as again and the net charge to the income statement is summarised below.
2015 2014 m m Gross charge to the income statement 37.2 24.7 Debt sale recoveries 6.9 8.9 Net charge to the income statement 30.3 15.8 Note 9: Taxation A Analysis of the tax charge for the year 2015 2014 m m UK corporation tax Current tax on profit for the year 13.6 0.7 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.3 Current tax charge to the income statement 13.6 3.0 Deferred tax refer note 22 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 15.0 16.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.7 6.0 Reduction in UK corporation tax rate 2.5 0.2 Deferred tax charge to the income statement 13.2 22.3 Tax charge 26.8 25.3 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 1-20 reflowed.
indd 244 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 245 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 9: Taxation continued Analysis of tax charge recognised in Other Comprehensive Income: 2015 2014 m m Current tax Available-for-sale financial assets 2.1 1.3 Deferred tax 0.9 Available-for-sale financial assets Cash flow hedge 1.6 2.5 Total credit 2.8 1.2 B Factors affecting the tax charge for the year A reconciliation of the charge that would result from applying the standard UK corporation tax rate to the profit before tax to the actual tax charge for the year is given below: 2015 2014 m m Profit before tax 138.0 34.0 Tax charge at effective corporation tax rate of 20.25% 2014: 21.5% 27.9 7.3 Factors affecting charge: Disallowed items 1.5 11.6 Non-taxable income 0.8 1.1 UK corporation tax rate change 2.5 0.2 Adjustments in respect of previous years 0.7 8.3 Gains covered by the substantial shareholding exemption 1.0 Other items 0.4 Total tax charge 26.8 25.3 The Group has been engaged in discussion with HM Revenue and Customs HMRC regarding the tax treatment of certain commercial funding transactions that were entered into during 2009 involving Virgin Money Cards Limited since renamed Sapphire Cards Limited, which is no longer part of the Group.
Tax charges of 8.8 million in relation to the settlement of the HMRC enquiry were reflected within the 2014 Adjustments in respect of prior periods.
This includes an anticipated benefit from the surrender of up to 62.9 million of tax losses by the Virgin Group for an expected payment in the region of 15.5 million.
The Finance Act 2013 the Act was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013.
The Act reduced the main rate of corporation tax to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and 20% with effect from 1 April 2015.
2 Act 2015 was substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
This reduced the main rate of corporation tax further to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017 and to 18% with effect from 1 April 2020.
A bank corporation tax surcharge of 8%, effective from 1 January 2016, was enacted in November 2015.
Whilst the surcharge will not apply to the banking profits of the Groups operating bank subsidiary, Virgin Money plc until 2016, it has been necessary to rebase deferred tax assets and liabilities, where relevant, to ensure that such assets and liabilities continue to be held on the balance sheet using the rate at which they are expected to reverse in the future.
As at 31 December 2015, this rate uplift has been reflected for Virgin Money plcs deferred tax assets and liabilities, except in relation to brought forward trading losses which fall outside of the surcharge rules.
The most material element of the rate change impact of 2.5 million, set out above, isaccounted for by this surcharge rate uplift.
indd 245 01 03 2016 11:38 246 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10: Earnings per share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share EPS data in relation to the ordinary shares of the Company.
Earnings per share 2015 2014 m m Profit attributable to equity shareholders basic and diluted 111.2 8.7 Distributions to Non-core Tier 1 noteholders and Additional Tier 1 security holders net of group relief 10.0 10.3 Profit loss attributable to equity holders for the purposes of basic and diluted EPS 101.2 1.6 2015 2014 Number Number of shares of shares million million Weighted-average number of ordinary shares in issue basic 441.0 391.3 Adjustment for share options and awards 4.7 0.3 Weighted-average number of ordinary shares in issue diluted 445.7 391.6 Basic earnings per share pence 22.9 0.4 Diluted earnings per share pence 22.7 0.4 Basic earnings per share has been calculated after deducting 1.8 million 2014: 1.6 million ordinary shares representing the Groups holdings of own shares in respect of employee share schemes.
Of the total number of employee share options and share awards at 31 December 2015 none were anti-dilutive 2014: 6.6 million.
Note 11: Dividends The Directors have recommended for approval at the 2016 AGM the payment of afinal dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 of 3.1p per ordinary share, amounting to 13.7 million.
If approved, this final dividend will be paid on 25 May 2016 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 15 April 2016.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 do not reflect this final dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained profits in the year ending 31 December 2016.
The 2015 interim dividend of 1.4p per ordinary share, amounting to 6.2 million, was paid in October 2015 and has been deducted from retained profits.
Under the trust deed of the Employee Benefit Trust EBT, a standing waiver is in force in respect of any dividends declared on shares held by the EBT.
There were no dividends declared or paid in the year ending 31 December 2014.
indd 246 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 247 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 12: Analysis of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement basis Derivatives Derivatives designated not ashedging instruments Held at Availabledesignated amortised Loans and for-sale as hedging Fair value Cash flow cost receivables securities instruments hedges hedges Total m m m m m m m As at 31 December 2015 Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 888.6 888.6 Derivative financial instruments 18.3 63.5 0.5 82.3 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 614.5 614.5 Loans and advances to customers 27,109.0 27,109.0 Debt securities 1.1 1.1 Available-for-sale financial assets 1,296.9 1,296.9 Other assets trade debtors and accrued income 14.6 14.6 Total financial assets 28,627.8 1,296.9 18.3 63.5 0.5 30,007.0 Non financial assets 222.0 Total assets 30,229.0 Financial liabilities Deposits from banks 1,298.7 1,298.7 Customer deposits 25,144.9 25,144.9 Derivative financial instruments 15.4 139.6 1.0 156.0 Debt securities in issue 2,039.4 2,039.4 Other liabilities trade creditors and accrued interest 155.1 155.1 Total financial liabilities 28,638.1 15.4 139.6 1.0 28,794.1 Non financial liabilities 94.6 Total liabilities 28,888.7 Equity 1,340.3 Total liabilities and equity 30,229.0 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 1-20 reflowed.
indd 247 01 03 2016 11:38 248 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 12: Analysis of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement basis continued Derivatives Derivatives designated not ashedging instruments Held at Availabledesignated amortised Loans and for-sale as hedging Fair value Cash flow cost receivables securities instruments hedges hedges Total m m m m m m m As at 31 December 2014 Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 851.3 851.3 Derivative financial instruments 25.9 75.3 101.2 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 720.5 720.5 Loans and advances to customers 23,093.1 23,093.1 Debt securities 8.6 8.6 Available-for-sale financial assets 1,539.6 1,539.6 Other assets trade debtors and accrued income 17.5 17.5 Total financial assets 24,691.0 1,539.6 25.9 75.3 26,331.8 Non financial assets 205.0 Total assets 26,536.8 Financial liabilities Deposits from banks 846.7 846.7 Customer deposits 22,365.7 22,365.7 Derivative financial instruments 22.0 203.7 2.5 228.2 Debt securities in issue 1,594.1 1,594.1 Other liabilities trade creditors and accrued interest 165.2 165.2 Total financial liabilities 24,971.7 22.0 203.7 2.5 25,199.9 Non financial liabilities 93.1 Total liabilities 25,293.0 Equity 1,243.8 Total liabilities and equity 26,536.8 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 1-20 reflowed.
indd 248 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 249 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 13: Derivative financial instruments 2015 2014 Contract Contract notional Asset Liability notional Asset Liability amount fair value fair value amount fair value fair value m m m m m m Derivatives in accounting hedge relationships Derivatives designated as fair value hedges: Interest rate swaps 23,421.6 63.5 139.6 22,160.5 74.4 203.7 Cross currency interest rate swaps 21.8 0.9 23,421.6 63.5 139.6 22,182.3 75.3 203.7 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges: Interest rate swaps 369.7 0.5 1.0 811.8 2.5 Total derivative assets liabilities 23,791.3 64.0 140.6 22,994.1 75.3 206.2 in accounting hedge relationships Derivatives in economic hedging relationships but not in accounting hedge relationships Interest rate contracts: Interest rate swaps 3,651.4 16.8 15.4 3,345.9 24.8 21.8 Options: Equity FTSE 100 options 1.5 1.1 0.2 Total derivative assets liabilities 3,651.4 18.3 15.4 3,345.9 25.9 22.0 in economic hedging relationship but not in accounting hedge relationships Total recognised derivative 27,442.7 82.3 156.0 26,340.0 101.2 228.2 assets liabilities The principal amount of the derivative contracts does not represent the Groups real exposure to credit risk which is limited to the current cost of replacing contracts with apositive value to the Group should the counterparty default.
To reduce credit risk the Group uses avariety of credit enhancement techniques such as netting and collateralisation, where security is provided against the exposure.
Further details are provided in the Risk Management Report.
Hedged cash flows For designated cash flow hedges the following table shows when the Groups hedged cash flows are expected to occur and when they will impact income: 2015 2014 m m Within one year 5.5 2.9 In one to five years 9.8 5.9 Total 15.3 8.8 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 1-20 reflowed.
indd 249 01 03 2016 11:38 250 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 13: Derivative financial instruments continued Gains losses from derivatives and hedge accounting 2015 2014 m m Gain loss from fair value hedge accounting: Derivatives designated as fair value hedges 53.7 156.3 Fair value movement attributable to hedged risk 50.7 155.1 3.0 1.2 Loss from cash flow hedges 5.1 2.7 Fair value gains from other derivatives 1.7 4.0 Loss gain from derivatives and hedge accounting 0.4 0.1 1 Gains or losses from fair value hedges can arise where there is an IFRS hedge accounting relationship in place and either: the fair value of the derivative was not exactly offset by the change in fair value attributable to the hedged risk: or the derivative was designated in or dedesignated from the IFRS hedge accounting relationship and in the following months leads to amortisation of existing balance sheet positions.
2 Other derivatives are those used for economic hedging but which are not in an IAS 39 hedge accounting relationship.
Note 14: Loans and advances to banks Loans and advances to banks comprise: 2015 2014 m m Balances within securitisation vehicles 384.3 447.9 Money market placements with banks 97.1 120.8 Other lending to banks 133.1 151.8 Total 614.5 720.5 Note 15: Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances to customers comprise: 2015 2014 m m Advances secured on residential property not subject to securitisation 17,389.9 15,631.2 Advances secured on residential property subject to securitisation 3,670.4 3,128.3 21,060.3 18,759.5 Residential buy-to-let loans not subject to securitisation 4,401.9 3,135.6 Total loans and advances to customers secured on residential property 25,462.2 21,895.1 Unsecured receivables not subject to securitisation 1,610.0 1,121.3 Total loans and advances to customers before allowance for impairment losses 27,072.2 23,016.4 Impairment allowance refer note 8 39.9 30.6 Total loans and advances to customers excluding portfolio hedging 27,032.3 22,985.8 Fair value of portfolio hedging 76.7 107.3 Total loans and advances to customers 27,109.0 23,093.1 The fair value of portfolio hedging represents an accounting adjustment which offsets the fair value movement on the related derivatives.
Such relationships are established to protect the Group from interest rate risk on fixed rate products.
See the Risk Management Report for further details.
For collateral held in respect of the values included in the table above, refer to the Risk Management Report.
indd 250 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 251 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 16: Available-for-sale financial assets 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 1,539.6 1,679.2 Additions 659.2 567.6 Disposals sales and redemptions 859.9 789.1 1 Reclassification of equity investments 1.3 Exchange differences 0.7 1.3 Net gains on changes in fair value 42.6 83.2 At 31 December 1,296.9 1,539.6 1 Represents investments in unquoted equity securities relating to the Groups participation in banking and credit card operations, previously recognised within Other assets.
Gains on sale of available-for-sale securities amounted to 8.8 million 2014: 7.5 million.
Analysis of the composition of debt securities categorised as available-for-sale financial assets is set out in the Risk Management Report.
All assets have been individually assessed for impairment and following this assessment no write down ofassets was required.
For amounts included above which are subject to repurchase agreements refer to note 17.
Note 17: Collateral pledged and received The Group receives and accepts collateral in the form At 31 December 2015 cash collateral of 94.6 million of cash and marketable securities in respect of the 2014: 121.8 million had been pledged by the Group and following transactions: 23.8 million 2014: 11.4 million has been received as cash collateral by the Group.
derivatives: At 31 December 2015 available-for-sale financial assets of sale and repurchase and reverse sale and repurchase nil 2014: 291.4 million are pledged as collateral in respect agreements: and of sale and repurchase agreements under terms that are usual securities lending and borrowing.
and customary for such activities.
Collateral in respect of derivatives is subject to the standard At 31 December 2015 loans and advances of 755.0 million industry terms of ISDA Credit Support Annex.
This means that 2014: 723.9 million are pledged as collateral in respect of securities received or given as collateral can be pledged or sale and repurchase agreements under terms that are usual sold during the term of the transaction but must be returned and customary for such activities.
on maturity of the transaction.
The terms also give each The value of collateral pledged in respect of repurchase counterparty the right to terminate the related transactions agreements that was transferred, accounted for as secured upon the counterpartys failure to post collateral.
borrowings, where the transfer is permitted by contract or custom to repledge collateral was nil 2014: 274.3 million.
indd 251 01 03 2016 11:38 252 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 18: Securitisation Assets and liabilities of the SPVs included in these consolidated financial statements comprise: 2015 2014 m m Assets Loans and advances to customers 3,670.4 3,128.3 Loans and advances to banks 384.3 447.9 Other assets 0.3 0.2 Total assets 4,055.0 3,576.4 Liabilities Debt securities in issue 1,741.9 1,594.1 Deposits by banks 13.2 0.1 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 Other liabilities 3.1 4.9 Total liabilities 1,758.2 1,599.2 The following table sets out the carrying amount of financial assets that did not qualify for derecognition and their associated liabilities.
Where relevant, the table also sets out the net position of the fair value of financial assets where the counterparty to the associated liabilities has recourse only to the financial assets.
2015 2014 m m Carrying amount of transferred assets 3,670.4 3,128.3 Fair value of transferred assets 3,728.4 3,197.4 Carrying amount of associated liabilities 1,741.9 1,594.1 Fair value of associated liabilities 1,740.0 1,599.6 There were no transactions in the year where the Group transferred financial assets that should have been derecognised in their entirety.
Note 19: Acquisitions and disposals Disposal of CHT 2014 The disposal of CHT was completed on 30 November 2014.
Again on disposal of 4.5 million was recognised on that date by the Group.
Purchase of credit card portfolio 2014 From the point of acquisition of the credit card book from MBNA on 18 January 2013, until 30 November 2014, MBNA agreed to underwrite and administer new Virgin Money branded credit cards on acommission basis.
On 30 November 2014, the Group completed an agreement to purchase the assets originated during this period.
The portfolio was purchased for aconsideration of 362.7 million.
The fair value of the assets purchased was 354.5 million a premium of 8.2 million.
This included credit cards that had previously been charged-off.
The premium will be unwound over the life of the purchased assets.
The acquisition was determined to be an asset purchase as the assets were purchased without staff contracts or processes orother aspects of the business being transferred to them.
indd 252 01 03 2016 11:38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 253 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 20: Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise: Core Core deposit banking intangible Goodwill Software platform Total m m m m m Cost: Cost at 1 January 2014 4.8 4.6 68.1 6.9 84.4 Additions 13.9 13.0 26.9 Disposals 4.6 4.6 Cost at 31 December 2014 4.8 82.0 19.9 106.7 Additions 27.9 1.6 29.5 Disposals 24.8 24.8 At 31 December 2015 4.8 85.1 21.5 111.4 Accumulated amortisation: Accumulated amortisation at 1 January 2014 2.7 4.6 51.1 58.4 Charge for the year 1.0 5.8 6.8 Disposals 4.6 4.6 Accumulated amortisation at 31 December 2014 3.7 56.9 60.6 Charge for the year 0.3 8.6 2.9 11.2 Disposals 24.8 24.8 At 31 December 2015 3.4 40.7 2.9 47.0 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2015 1.4 44.4 18.6 64.4 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2014 1.1 25.1 19.9 46.1 Additions during the year relate to software and core banking platform intangible assets.
Software additions primarily relate to the purchase of new office software for employee workstations, as well as further development of the Groups digital banking channel.
indd 253 01 03 2016 11:38 254 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 21: Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets comprise: Plant, equipment fixtures, Land and fittings and buildings vehicles Total m m m Cost: Cost at 1 January 2014 59.1 35.5 94.6 Additions 4.2 6.4 10.6 Disposals 2.1 0.3 2.4 Cost at 31 December 2014 61.2 41.6 102.8 Additions 2.1 8.1 10.2 Disposals 10.2 10.2 At 31 December 2015 63.3 39.5 102.8 Accumulated depreciation and impairment: Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 1 January 2014 6.5 16.9 23.4 Depreciation charge for the year 2.1 5.9 8.0 Disposals 1.3 0.2 1.5 Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2014 7.3 22.6 29.9 Depreciation charge for the year 2.2 6.2 8.4 Disposals 10.1 10.1 At 31 December 2015 9.5 18.7 28.2 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2015 53.8 20.8 74.6 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2014 53.9 19.0 72.9 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 21-35 reflowed.
indd 254 01 03 2016 11:39 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 255 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 22: Deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets and liabilities comprise: 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax assets liabilities : Accelerated capital allowances 15.1 7.1 Cash flow hedge reserve 3.8 2.2 Change in accounting basis on adoption of IFRS 4.8 3.0 Tax losses carried forward 18.0 38.1 Other temporary differences 4.3 4.4 Fair value adjustments on acquisition of Northern Rock 1.6 1.4 Total deferred tax assets 38.0 50.2 The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets in respect of gross unused tax losses of 31.2 million 2014: 28.8 million.
The movement in the net deferred tax balance is as follows: 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 50.2 70.0 Income statement charge credit refer note 9 : Accelerated capital allowances 8.0 1.5 Tax losses carried forward 20.1 24.1 Other temporary differences 1.1 3.3 13.2 22.3 Amounts credited charged to equity: Available-for-sale financial assets 0.9 Cash flow hedges 1.6 2.5 Adjustments relating to share based payments 0.3 1.0 2.5 At 31 December 38.0 50.2 Note 23: Other assets Other assets comprise: 2015 2014 m m Trade debtors 9.7 12.6 Prepayments and accrued income 22.4 16.8 Other 27.5 23.9 Total other assets 59.6 53.3 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 21-35 reflowed.
indd 255 01 03 2016 11:39 256 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 24: Deposits from banks Deposits from banks comprise: 2015 2014 m m Liabilities in respect of securities sold under repurchase agreements 1,274.9 835.3 Other deposits from banks 23.8 11.4 Total deposits from banks 1,298.7 846.7 Note 25: Customer deposits Customer deposits comprise: 2015 2014 m m Savings and investment accounts 24,914.6 22,164.1 Personal current accounts 230.3 201.6 Total customer deposits 25,144.9 22,365.7 Note 26: Debt securities in issue Debt securities in issue comprise: Secured Unsecured Total m m m At 1 January 2014 1,469.8 1,469.8 Repayments 874.1 874.1 Issues 1,000.0 1,000.0 Other movements 1.6 1.6 At 31 December 2014 1,594.1 1,594.1 Repayments 601.9 601.9 Issues 750.0 298.9 1,048.9 Other movements 0.3 1.4 1.7 At 31 December 2015 1,741.9 297.5 2,039.4 Other movements comprise accrued interest, unamortised issue costs or hedge accounting adjustments.
On 16 April 2015, the Group issued 5 year Medium Term Notes with anominal value of 300 million at acoupon of 2.25% per annum.
The notes were issued as part of the Groups recently launched 3 billion Global Medium Term Note programme, which was established to diversify the Groups wholesale funding base further.
On 8 June 2015, the Group raised 750 million from institutional investors through the issuance of Residential Mortgage Backed Securities in the Gosforth Funding 2015-1 transaction.
indd 256 01 03 2016 11:39 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 257 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 27: Provisions The movement in provisions was as follows: FSCS Other Total m m m At 1 January 2015 8.7 0.6 9.3 Provisions applied 14.6 0.2 14.8 Charge for the year 12.5 1.4 13.9 At 31 December 2015 6.6 1.8 8.4 The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS is the UKs statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms and pays compensation if afirm is unable to pay claims against it.
The FSCS has borrowed from HMTreasury to fund the compensation costs associated with institutions that failed in 2008 and will receive the receipts from asset sales, surplus cash flows and other recoveries from these institutions in the future.
The FSCS meets its obligations by raising management expense and compensation levies.
These include amounts to cover the interest on its borrowings and on-going management expenses.
Each deposit taking institution contributes in proportion to its share of total protected deposits.
The FSCS can only raise alevy within its scheme year which commences 1 April and under IFRIC 21 Levies the Group recognises its FSCS provision in the scheme year itself.
Note 28: Other liabilities Other liabilities comprise: 2015 2014 m m Trade creditors 24.0 26.3 Deferred income 5.0 4.8 Other creditors and accruals 206.0 215.6 Current tax liabilities 6.3 2.3 Total other liabilities 241.3 249.0 Deferred income represents income advanced from partners that will be recognised in future periods.
Accrued interest included within Other creditors and accruals primarily represents interest which has accrued on retail funds and deposits.
The Groups exposure to liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in the Risk Management Report.
indd 257 01 03 2016 11:39 258 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 29: Share capital and share premium Share capital and share premium 2015 2014 m m Share capital 0.1 0.1 Share premium At 1 January 654.5 509.2 Premium on shares issued in the year 149.9 Ordinary Share issue costs charged directly to equity 4.6 As at 31 December 654.5 654.5 At 31 December 654.6 654.6 Issued and fully paid share capital 2015 2014 Number of shares Number of shares Ordinary Shares of 0.0001 each At 1 January 441,933,180 38,742,729 Share conversion 47,247 Subdivision of shares 349,109,784 Issued during year 1,778,278 53,003,534 Issued under employee share schemes 1,029,886 At 31 December 443,711,458 441,933,180 Deferred Shares of 0.001 each At 1 January 10,052,161 731,113 Issued during year 9,321,048 Share conversion 1,157,863 Shares cancellation 1,157,863 At 31 December 10,052,161 10,052,161 During the year, the Company issued 1,778,278 Ordinary Shares in advance of the vesting of awards granted under the IPO share award and the IPO incentive scheme.
The total number of Ordinary Shares in issue at 31 December 2015 was 443,711,458 with anominal value of 0.0001, amounting to 44,371 2014: 441,933,180 Ordinary Shares with anominal value of 0.0001, amounting to 44,193.
The total number of Deferred Shares in issue at 31 December 2015 was 10,052,161, with anominal value of 0.001, amounting to 10,052 2014: 10,052,161 Deferred Shares with anominal value of 0.001, amounting to 10,052.
Previously the Company had issued AOrdinary Shares and B Ordinary Shares, neither of which carried any voting rights.
During 2014 all of the 1,102,982 AOrdinary Shares 1 January 2014: 1,102,982 and 102,128 B Ordinary Shares 1 January 2014: Nil each with anominal value of 0.001 per share, were converted into acombination of Ordinary Shares and Deferred Shares refer note7.
The conversion was based on the calculation and hurdle rate specified in the Articles of Association of the Company.
The following describes the rights attaching to each share class at 31 December 2015: Ordinary Shares The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Group.
All Ordinary Shares in issue in the Company rank equally and carry the same voting rights and the same rights to receive dividends and other distributions declared or paid by the Company.
indd 258 01 03 2016 11:39 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 259 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 29: Share capital and share premium continued Deferred Shares As set out in the Articles of Association adopted on listing and pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act in respect of shares held in own shares, the Deferred Shares have no voting or dividend rights and, on areturn of capital on awinding up, have no valuable economic rights.
No application has been made or is currently intended to be made for the Deferred Shares to be admitted to the Official List or to trade on the London Stock Exchange or any other investment exchange.
The Deferred Shares are held in treasury.
This is to ensure that the aggregate nominal value of the Companys share capital willbe not less than 50,000, which is the minimum level of nominal share capital required by the Companies Act for acompany tobe established as apublic limited company.
Note 30: Other equity instruments The Company issued Fixed Rate Resettable Additional Tier 1 interest on the securities will be due and payable only at AT1 securities of 160.0 million on the Luxembourg Stock the sole discretion of the Company, and the Company has Exchange on 31 July 2014.
This issue is treated as an equity sole and absolute discretion at all times and for any reason instrument in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: to cancel in whole or in part any interest payment that Presentation with the proceeds included in equity, net of would otherwise be payable on any interest payment date: transaction costs of 3.5 million.
Dividends and other returns the securities are undated and are redeemable, at the to equity holders are treated as adeduction from equity.
option of the Company, all but not part on the first reset Theprincipal terms of the securities are described below: date or any reset date thereafter.
In addition, the AT1 the securities constitute direct, unsecured and securities are redeemable, at the option of the Company, subordinated obligations of the Company and rank pari in whole for certain regulatory or tax reasons.
Any optional passu with holders of other Tier 1 instruments and the redemption requires the prior consent of the PRA: and holders of that class or classes of preference shares but all AT1 securities will be converted into Ordinary Shares rank junior to the claims of senior creditors: of the Company, at apre-determined price, should the the securities bear afixed rate of interest from the Common Equity Tier 1 ratio of the Group fall below 7.0% issue date of 7.875% until the first reset date on the asspecified in the terms.
5th anniversary: 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 21-35 reflowed.
indd 259 01 03 2016 11:39 260 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 31: Other reserves Other reserves comprise: 2015 2014 m m Available-for-sale reserve At 1 January 7.0 6.5 Net losses gains from changes in fair value 0.8 86.9 Net gains on disposal transferred to net income 33.6 10.3 Amounts transferred to net income due to hedge accounting 25.9 74.8 Taxation 1.2 1.3 At 31 December 0.3 7.0 2015 2014 m m Cash flow hedge reserve At 1 January 8.8 0.2 Amounts recognised in equity 13.2 14.1 Amounts transferred to income statement 5.1 2.6 Deferred tax 1.6 2.5 At 31 December 15.3 8.8 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 21-35 reflowed.
indd 260 01 03 2016 11:39 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 261 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 32: Retained earnings Retained earnings comprise: 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 434.5 419.0 Profit for the year 111.2 8.7 Dividends and distributions to Tier 1 security holders net of tax 16.2 10.3 Purchase of own shares 5.0 Share based payments including deferred tax 20.3 17.1 As at 31 December 544.8 434.5 Employee Benefit Trust EBT Retained earnings are stated after deducting 2.9 million 2014: 2.1 million representing 1,815,387 2014: 1,561,013 own shares held in an EBT.
As part of an arrangement to allow holders of certain shares in the Company an opportunity to access some of the value increase in the Group since the original grant date, the Company established an EBT in 2011.
The Company funded the EBT by means of a cash loan and is therefore considered to be the sponsoring entity.
The EBT purchased shares in the Company using the cash loan which is accounted for as a purchase of own shares by the Company.
The investment in own shares at 31 December 2015 is2.9 million 2014: 2.1 million.
The market value of the shares held in the EBT at 31 December 2015 was 6.9 million.
Note 33: Contingent liabilities and commitments Contingent liabilities The Board was not aware of any significant contingent liabilities as at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: none.
The Company is, from time to time and in the normal course of business, subject to avariety of legal or regulatory claims, actions or proceedings.
When such circumstances arise, the Board considers the likelihood of amaterial outflow of economic resources and provides for its best estimate of costs where an outflow of economic resources is considered probable.
While there can be noassurances, the Directors believe, based on information currently available to them, that the likelihood of material outflows from such matters is remote.
The Board does not expect the ultimate resolution of any other threatened or actual legal proceedings to have asignificant adverse effect on the financial position of the Group.
indd 261 01 03 2016 11:39 262 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 33: Contingent liabilities and commitments continued Loan commitments Contractual amounts to which the Group is committed for extension of credit to customers.
2015 2014 m m Not later than 1 year 3,958.7 3,100.2 Later than one year and not later than 5 years Later than 5 years 594.0 521.1 Total loan commitments 4,479.8 3,694.2 Operating lease commitments land and buildings Minimum future lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases.
2015 2014 m m Not later than 1 year 7.2 7.1 Later than one year and not later than 5 years 25.2 24.3 Later than 5 years 24.1 23.3 Total operating lease commitments land and buildings 56.5 54.7 Operating lease commitments other operating leases Minimum future lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases.
2015 2014 m m Not later than 1 year 4.6 4.6 Later than one year and not later than 5 years 9.2 13.8 Later than 5 years Total operating lease commitments other operating leases 13.8 18.4 Capital commitments Capital commitments for the acquisition of buildings and equipment.
2015 2014 m m Not later than 1 year 2.9 5.7 Later than one year and not later than 5 years Later than 5 years Total capital commitments 2.9 5.7 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 21-35 reflowed.
indd 262 01 03 2016 11:39 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 263 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 34: Fair value of financial assets and liabilities Fair value of financial assets and liabilities recognised at cost The following table summarises the fair values of those financial assets and liabilities not presented on the Groups balance sheet at their fair value, by the level in the fair value hierarchy into which each fair value measurement is categorised.
The accounting policy in note 1.9 j sets out the key principles for estimating the fair values of financial instruments.
Total Total fair carrying Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value value m m m m m At 31 December 2015 Cash and balances at central banks 888.6 888.6 888.6 614.5 614.5 614.5 Loans and advances to banks 1 Loans and advances to customers 27,243.2 27,243.2 27,109.0 Debt securities classified as loans and receivables 1.2 1.2 1.1 Available-for-sale financial assets 1.3 1.3 1.3 Other assets trade debtors and accrued income 14.6 14.6 14.6 Total financial assets at fair value 1.2 1,517.7 27,244.5 28,763.4 28,629.1 Deposits from banks 1,298.7 1,298.7 1,298.7 Customer deposits 25,162.5 25,162.5 25,144.9 Debt securities in issue 2,032.1 2,032.1 2,039.4 Other liabilities trade payables and accrued interest 155.1 155.1 155.1 Total financial liabilities at fair value 2,032.1 26,616.3 28,648.4 28,638.1 1 Amounts shown in respect of loans and advances to customers includes fair value adjustments of portfolio hedging.
Total Total fair carrying Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value value m m m m m At 31 December 2014 Cash and balances at central banks 851.3 851.3 851.3 Loans and advances to banks 720.5 720.5 720.5 1 Loans and advances to customers 23,197.2 23,197.2 23,093.1 Debt securities classified as loans and receivables 10.0 10.0 8.6 Other assets trade debtors and accrued income 17.5 17.5 17.5 Total financial assets at fair value 10.0 1,589.3 23,197.2 24,796.5 24,691.0 Deposits from banks 846.7 846.7 846.7 Customer deposits 22,424.3 22,424.3 22,365.7 Debt securities in issue 1,599.6 1,599.6 1,594.1 Other liabilities trade creditors and accrued interest 165.2 165.2 165.2 Total financial liabilities at fair value 1,599.6 23,436.2 25,035.8 24,971.7 1 Amounts shown in respect of loans and advances to customers includes fair value adjustments of portfolio hedging.
indd 263 01 03 2016 11:39 264 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 34: Fair value of financial assets and liabilities continued Fair value hierarchy The table above summarises the carrying value and fair value However, as the Groups policy is to hedge fixed rate loans of assets and liabilities held on the balance sheet.
There are inrespect of interest rate risk, this does not indicate that the three levels to the hierarchy as follows: Group has an exposure to this difference in value.
However, were the Group to dispose of aportfolio of mortgages, it Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for would be likely the fair value would be lower than disclosed, identical assets and liabilities.
as there is currently no active market for the sale of mortgage Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level books.
The fair value of aloan takes into account credit risk 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, whether directly atthe balance sheet date.
i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Loans and advances to customers are categorised as level 3 Level 3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based asunobservable pre-payment rates are applied.
onobservable market data unobservable inputs.
Debt securities classified as loans and receivables Valuation methods for calculations of fair values Fair values are based on quoted prices, where available, inthe table above are set out below: orbydiscounting cash flows using market rates.
Cash and balances at central banks Available-for-sale financial assets Fair value approximates to carrying value because cash and These are unquoted equity securities held by the Group and balances at central banks have minimal credit losses and are relating to participation in banking and credit card operations either short-term in nature or reprice frequently.
They are categorised as level 3 as the fair value of these securities cannot be reliably measured, due to the Loans and advances to banks lack of equivalent instruments with observable prices.
Fair value was estimated by using discounted cash flows applying either market rates where practicable or rates Other assets and liabilities trade debtors creditors, offered by other financial institutions for loans with similar accrued income and accrued interest characteristics.
The fair value of floating rate placements, Fair value is deemed to approximate the carrying value.
fixed rate placements with less than six months to maturity and overnight deposits is considered to approximate to their Deposits from banks and customer deposits carrying amount.
Fair values of deposit liabilities repayable on demand or with variable interest rates are considered to approximate Loans and advances to customers to carrying value.
The fair value of fixed interest deposits The Group provides loans of varying rates and maturities with less than six months to maturity is their carrying to customers.
The fair value of loans with variable interest amount.
The fair value of all other deposit liabilities was rates is considered to approximate to carrying value as the estimated by discounting cash flows, using market rates or interest rate can be moved in line with market conditions.
rates currently offered by the Group for deposits of similar Forloans with fixed interest rates, fair value was estimated remaining maturities.
bydiscounting cash flows using market rates or rates normally Debt securities in issue offered by the Group.
The change in interest rates since the majority of these loans were originated means that their fair Fair values are based on quoted prices where available value can vary significantly from their carrying value.
orbydiscounting cash flows using market rates.
indd 264 01 03 2016 11:39 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 265 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 34: Fair value of financial assets and liabilities continued Fair value of financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value The following table summarises the fair values of those financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value, by the level inthe fair value hierarchy into which each fair value measurement is categorised.
The accounting policy in note 1 sets out thekeyprinciples for estimating the fair values of financial instruments.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2015 m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments 82.3 82.3 Available-for-sale financial assets 1,233.3 59.0 3.3 1,295.6 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 156.0 156.0 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2014 m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments 101.2 101.2 Available-for-sale financial assets 1,539.6 1,539.6 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 228.2 228.2 Level 1 Valuations The fair value of debt securities categorised as available-for-sale financial assets is derived from unadjusted quoted prices inanactive market.
Level 2 Valuations The fair values of derivative instruments are calculated by discounted cash flow models using yield curves that are based onobservable market data or are based on valuations obtained from counterparties.
The fair value of level 2 available-for-sale securities are calculated using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow models.
Level 3 Valuations This represents the Groups best estimate of the value of its equity investment in Visa Europe Limited.
Management has assessed that areliable estimate of fair value is possible at the year end, following correspondence from Visa Inc. of the consideration expected to be received by the Group from its proposed acquisition of Visa Europe Limited, expected to complete in 2016.
The Groups share of the sale proceeds will comprise upfront consideration and preferred stock.
The preferred stock is convertible into Class Acommon stock, at afuture date, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions.
The Group may be entitled to additional deferred consideration four years post completion of the sale, contingent on anumber of variable factors including the performance of Visa over that period.
The most significant unobservable input to the valuation is the discount applied to the value of the preferred stock to reflect the risks of future reduction in conversion to Visa Inc. Class A common stock and restrictions on transferability.
indd 265 01 03 2016 11:39 266 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 35: Cash flow statements a Change in operating assets 2015 2014 m m Changes in loans and advances to customers 4,046.2 2,403.6 Change in derivative financial assets 18.9 86.3 Change in other operating assets 10.0 13.3 Change in operating assets 4,037.3 2,330.6 b Change in operating liabilities 2015 2014 m m Change in customer deposits 2,779.2 1,244.3 Change in derivative financial liabilities 72.2 81.1 Change in other operating liabilities 439.4 480.2 Change in operating liabilities 3,146.4 1,805.6 c Non-cash and other items 2015 2014 m m Depreciation and amortisation 19.6 14.8 Gain on sale of subsidiary 4.5 Other non-cash items 42.8 143.1 Total non-cash and other items 62.4 132.8 d Analysis of cash and cash equivalents as shown in the balance sheet 2015 2014 m m Cash and balances at central banks 888.6 851.3 1 Less: mandatory reserve deposits 41.7 38.0 846.9 813.3 Loans and advances to banks 614.5 720.5 Total cash and cash equivalents 1,461.4 1,533.8 1 Mandatory reserves with central banks are not available for use in day to day operations.
indd 266 01 03 2016 11:39 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 267 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 36: Capital resources Capital is aregulatory measure held by the Group to protect its depositors, to cover inherent risks in anormal and stressed operating environment and to support its business strategy against losses, inherent risks and stress events.
In assessing the adequacy of its capital resources, the Group considers its risk appetite, the material risks to which it is exposed and the appropriate strategies required to manage those risks.
The Group manages capital in accordance with prudential rules issued by the PRA and FCA, in line with the EU Capital Requirements Directive referred to as CRD IV which implements Basel III in Europe.
CRD IV legislation became effective from 1 January 2014.
The Group is committed to maintaining astrong capital base and has complied with all capital requirements set by the regulators throughout the year.
The tables below and on the following page analyse the composition of the regulatory capital resources of the Group on aCRD IV basis in both 2015 and 2014.
Throughout 2014, transitional rules for calculating capital under CRD IV were in place and capital resources under those transitional rules were disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
Own funds 2015 2014 m m Common Equity Tier 1 Share capital and share premium account 654.6 654.6 Other equity instruments 156.5 156.5 Other reserves 15.6 1.8 Retained earnings 544.8 434.5 Total equity 1,340.3 1,243.8 Regulatory capital adjustments unaudited Deconsolidation of non regulated companies 4.5 4.1 Expected distribution on Additional Tier 1 securities 2.1 2.1 Expected distribution on ordinary shares 13.7 Other equity instruments 156.5 156.5 Cash flow hedge reserve 15.3 8.8 Intangible assets 64.4 46.1 Excess of expected loss over impairment 35.4 33.4 Deferred tax on tax losses carried forward 18.0 38.1 Common Equity Tier 1 capital unaudited 1,070.0 980.5 Additional Tier 1 securities 156.5 156.5 Total Tier 1 capital unaudited 1,226.5 1,137.0 Tier 2 capital unaudited General credit risk adjustments 7.6 5.9 Total Tier 2 capital 7.6 5.9 Total own funds unaudited 1,234.1 1,142.9 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 36 onwards reflowed.
indd 267 01 03 2016 11:00 268 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 36: Capital resources continued Movements in Common Equity Tier 1 capital are summarised below.
2015 2014 unaudited m m Common Equity Tier 1 capital at 1 January 980.5 808.9 Movement in retained earnings 110.3 15.5 Net impact of share capital issue 145.4 Movement in available-for-sale reserve 7.3 0.5 Movement in expected distribution on Additional Tier 1 securities 2.1 Movement in expected distribution on ordinary shares 13.7 Exclude losses from non regulated companies 0.4 0.6 Movement in intangible assets 18.3 20.1 Movement in excess of expected loss over impairment 2.0 7.7 Movement in deferred tax on tax losses carried forward 20.1 24.1 Common Equity Tier 1 capital at 31 December 1,070.0 980.5 Risk-weighted assets Pillar 1 2015 2014 unaudited m m Retail mortgages 3,952.9 3,489.7 Retail unsecured lending 1,192.7 830.0 Treasury 229.0 221.7 Other assets 196.3 175.0 Credit valuation adjustments 14.3 13.7 Operational risk 525.2 430.5 Total risk-weighted assets 6,110.4 5,160.6 The Group calculates its capital requirement for mortgages on an Internal Ratings Based approach, and on the Standardised Basis for credit cards and other assets.
Capital ratios Capital ratios are calculated as the capital measure shown divided by the total risk-weighted assets of the Group.
2015 2014 unaudited % % Common Equity Tier 1 ratio 17.5% 19.0% Tier 1 ratio 20.1% 22.0% Total capital ratio 20.2% 22.1% 4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 36 onwards reflowed.
indd 268 01 03 2016 11:00 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 269 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 37: Related party transactions a Key Management Personnel Key Management Personnel refer to the Executive Team of the Virgin Money Group, Non-Executive Directors and Directors of subsidiary companies.
2015 2014 m m Compensation Salaries and other short-term benefits 8.2 6.3 Amounts received under long-term incentive plans 1.2 Share based payments Refer note 7 12.3 10.2 Post-employment benefits 0.9 0.6 Total compensation 21.4 18.3 Aggregate contributions in respect of Key Management Personnel to defined contribution pension schemes 0.9 million 2014:0.6 million.
2015 2014 m m Deposits At 1 January 1.1 0.9 Placed 1.8 0.4 Withdrawn 0.7 0.2 Deposits outstanding at 31 December 2.2 1.1 Deposits placed by Key Management Personnel attracted interest rates of up to 2.8% 2014: 2.8 %.
At 31 December 2015, theGroup did not provide any guarantees in respect of Key Management Personnel 2014: none.
At 31 December 2015, transactions, arrangements and agreements entered into by the Groups banking subsidiaries with KeyManagement Personnel included amounts outstanding in respect of loans and credit card transactions of 0.3 million with5Key Management Personnel 2014: nil with 4 Key Management Personnel.
4175 VM 4 Financials Notes 36 onwards reflowed.
indd 269 01 03 2016 11:00 270 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 37: Related party transactions continued b Subsidiaries Transactions and balances with subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation.
Afull list of the companys subsidiaries and SPVs included within the consolidation is provided in note 3 to the parent company financial statements.
c Other transactions Transaction value at year end: 2015 2014 m m Trademark licence fees to Virgin Enterprises Ltd 5.1 4.3 Virgin Atlantic Airways 2.8 Dividend payment to Virgin Group Holdings Limited 2.2 Other costs to Virgin Management Group Companies 0.4 0.2 Balance outstanding at year end: 2015 2014 m m Trademark licence fees to Virgin Enterprises Ltd 0.4 0.4 Virgin Atlantic Airways Dividend payment to Virgin Group Holdings Limited Other costs to Virgin Management Group Companies 0.1 0.1 Trademark licence fees to Virgin Other costs to Virgin Management Group Enterprises Limited Companies Licence fees are payable to Virgin Enterprises Limited for the These costs include transactions with other companies use of the Virgin Money brand trademark.
It is anticipated that Sapphire Cards Limited formerly Virgin Virgin Atlantic Airways Money Cards Limited, which is no longer part of the Group, The Group incurs credit card commissions and air mile charges will benefit from the surrender of tax losses by the Virgin to Virgin Atlantic Airways Limited VAA in respect of an Group in the years 2009 to 2011.
This anticipated transaction agreement between the two parties.
Prior to 2014, there was is considered to meet the definition of arelated party atripartite agreement between the Group, VAA and MBNA transaction refer note 9. forthe credit card commission and air mile charges to VAA.
The Group incurs credit card point of sale discount fees toVirgin Holidays Limited.
Dividend payment to Virgin Group Holdings Limited A number of banking transactions are entered into withrelated parties as part of normal banking business.
The Group made a dividend payment of 2.2 million to Virgin Theseinclude deposits.
Group Holdings Limited in October 2015, which represented that companys proportionate share of the total interim dividend refer note 11.
Note 38: Events after balance sheet date On 25 January 2016, the Group raised 803.0 million from institutional investors through the issuance of Residential Mortgage Backed Securities in the Gosforth Funding 2016-1 transaction.
indd 270 01 03 2016 11:00 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 271 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 39: Future accounting developments A number of new accounting standards and amendments to accounting standards have been issued by the IASB, however have not been endorsed by the European Union.
Those which may be relevant to the Group are set out below.
Pronouncement Nature of change IASB effective date IFRS 9 Financial IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, published in July 2014, replaces the existing guidance in IAS 1 January 2018 Instruments has not been EU endorsed 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS9is split over 3 phases: Phase 1 includes revised guidance on the classification and measurement offinancial instruments.
Financial assets will be classified and measured based on the business model under which they are held and the characteristics of their contractual cash flows.
Financial liabilities designated under the fair value option will be required to generally present fair value changes that are attributable to the liabilitys credit risk in other comprehensive income rather than profit or loss.
Phase 2 is anew expected credit loss model for calculating impairment on financial assets.
Under this approach, it is no longer necessary for acredit event to have occurred before credit losses are recognised.
Instead, the Group will always account for expected credit losses and changes in those expected credit losses.
Phase 3 is the new general hedge accounting requirements.
These requirements aim to more closely align hedge accounting with the Groups risk management strategy.
The work on macro hedging by the IASB is still at apreliminary stage and has not yet been issued as part of the finalised standard.
A project team has been mobilised to begin work on assessing the impact of IFRS 9 across the Group, with particular emphasis on phase 2 the new impairment expected credit loss model.
At this stage afull assessment of the impact of IFRS 9 has not been made by the Group.
The Group is on track to successfully deliver the changes required to adopt IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018 subject to EU endorsement.
1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue Current revenue recognition accounting standards have led to inconsistencies has not been EU endorsed from Contracts with inaccounting for similar transactions and inadequate disclosures.
IFRS 15 specifies Customers comprehensive principles on whether, how much and when an entity should recognise revenue arising from customer contracts.
In addition, extensive disclosure requirements have been introduced to provide more informative and relevant disclosures, particularly around estimates and judgements.
The Group is reviewing the requirements of the new standard to determine itseffect on its financial reporting.
IFRS 16 Leases This standard replaces IAS 17 Leases and will result in most leases for lessees being 1 January 2019 has not brought on to the Balance Sheet under a single lease model, removing the distinction been EU endorsed between finance and operating leases.
It requires a lessee to recognise a right-of-use asset and a lease liability.
Lessor accounting remains largely unchanged.
The Group is reviewing the requirements of the new standard to determine its effect on itsfinancial reporting.
indd 271 01 03 2016 11:00 272 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 40: Country by country reporting The Capital Requirements Country by Country Reporting Regulations came into effect on 1 January 2014 and place certain reporting obligations on financial institutions within CRD IV.
All companies consolidated within the Groups financial statements are UK registered entities.
The activities of the Group are described in the Strategic Report.
UK Number of employees average FTE 2,824 Turnover total income 521.9m Pre tax profit 138.0m Corporation tax paid 5.0m Public subsidies received 0.0m The Group received no public subsidies during the year.
