I II: Corporate Governance III Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
State that the Group financial statements have complied with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained.
State for the Company financial statements whether the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the 2006 Act and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, as at the date of this report, confirms to the best of their knowledge that: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
On behalf of the Board of Directors CHARLES BERRY KEITH COCHRANE Chairman Chief Executive 24 February 2016 24 February 2016 The Weir Group PLC 121 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
