Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Corporate and operational structure Andrew Bell, who is an employee.
Corporate and operational structure and small number of direct employees, the Group has no specific policies in respect of environmental or social and As described earlier page 9 Witan is an Investment Trust community affairs.
with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
It has a single, wholly-owned subsidiary, Witan Investment Services Limited WIS which acts as the Companys AIFM.
Witan Investment Services WIS Witan Investment Services Limited is a wholly-owned Operational management arrangements subsidiary of Witan Investment Trust plc Witan.
It is In addition to the appointment of delegated investment authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority managers, Witan and WIS contract with third parties for the FCA.
supporting services required, including: It was established in March 2005 to provide investment BNP Paribas Securities Services London Branch BNPSS savings accounts and marketing services and to give for global depositary services, custody, investment investment advice to professional investors.
Since July accounting and administration: 2014 WIS has acted as the Companys AIFM to fulfil the Frostrow Capital LLP for company secretarial services: requirements of the AIFMD.
International Financial Data Services IFDS Ltd. as the In addition to its responsibilities as Witans AIFM, WISs savings plan administrators of Witan Wisdom and Jump principal activities are to provide executive management Savings: services to the Boards of Witan and Witan Pacific Investment Specialist advisers used for investment manager research Trust plc Witan Pacific, to communicate information about and investor communications: the companies to the market, to increase investor interest in their shares and to operate cost-effective savings plans for The Company also takes specialist advice on regulatory investors to hold the shares.
compliance issues and, as required, procures legal, LQYHVWPHQW FRQVXOWLQJ QDQFLDO DQG WD[ DGYLFH WISs operational objectives for 2016 are: As with investment management, the contracts governing the provision of these services are formulated with legal WR IXOO LWV LQYHVWPHQW DQG ULVN PDQDJHPHQW advice and stipulate clear objectives and guidelines for the responsibilities as Witans AIFM: level of service required.
WR SURYLGH D UHOLDEOH DQG HFLHQW LQYHVWPHQW VDYLQJV SODWIRUP IRU :LWDQ DQG :LWDQ 3DFLF LQYHVWRUV 3UHPLVHV DQG VWDQJ Since November 2005 the Company has had a lease on office to provide suitable advice to the Boards of its corporate SUHPLVHV DW 4XHHQ $QQHoV DWH RQGRQ 6: $$ ZKLFK clients: is also the Companys registered office.
The current lease has to reduce the net operating costs for Witan: and a 5 year term, commencing October 2015. to seek appropriate business opportunities that can add The Companys policy towards its employees is to attract and value for shareholders.
retain staff with the particular skills and expertise required to manage the affairs of an investment trust company.
WIS has two principal sources of income.
These are savings Details of the Companys remuneration policies and required plan revenues and the fees as AIFM or Executive Manager disclosures are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report and for marketing services paid by its corporate clients, on page 46.
Employees and those who seek to work within :LWDQ DQG :LWDQ 3DFLF 7KH PDLQ FRVWV LQFXUUHG E :, 6 DUH the Group are treated equally regardless of sex, marital IHHV WR WKH VDYLQJV VFKHPHV DGPLQLVWUDWRU, '6 VWD FRVWV status, creed, colour, race or ethnic origin.
The Company has to provide the services described above and professional seven direct employees, four men and three women.
The advice to ensure that its regulatory and accounting Board currently consists of seven non-executive directors REOLJDWLRQV DUH SURSHUO VDWLVHG five men and two women and the Chief Executive Officer, Annual Report 2015 Witan Investment Trust plc 19 Strategic Report Corporate and operational structure continued The savings plans provided for WIS clients are marketed PDQDJHU GLYHUVLFDWLRQ DQG UHJXODU UHYLHZV RI WKH under the Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings brands.
They managers competence: currently have over 23,000 accounts with assets of some monitoring the global economic, geo-political and stock 345 million invested.
market outlook: active management of risk, whether to preserve capital or Principal risks and uncertainties capitalise on opportunities: Risks are inherent in investment and corporate management the application of relevant policies on gearing and but it is important that their nature and magnitude are liquidity: and understood, in order that risks, particularly those which the the use of share buybacks and issuance to respond to &RPSDQ GRHV QRW ZLVK WR WDNH FDQ EH LGHQWLHG DQG HLWKHU market supply and demand.
In accordance with the provisions of the AIFMD, WIS has established a Risk Committee in order to 'XULQJ WKH HDU $QGUHZ %HOO WKH &KLHI [HFXWLYH 2FHU comply with its risk management and reporting obligations CEO managed the overall business and the investment as Witans AIFM.
The Company has established a detailed portfolio in accordance with limits and restrictions framework of the key risks impinging on the business as set determined by the Board and its AIFM.
The Board regularly out below, with associated policies and processes devised reviews the matters delegated to Executive management, to mitigate or manage those risks.
This risk map is reviewed on which the CEO reports at each Board meeting.
The Board regularly by the Audit Committee along with the WIS Risk also regularly reviews investment strategy and performance, Committee, which report on issues arising to their respective supported by comprehensive management information boards, for action as necessary.
The guiding principles remain LQFOXGLQJ LQYHVWPHQW SHUIRUPDQFH GDWD DQG QDQFLDO UHSRUWV watchfulness, proper analysis, prudence and a clear system of risk management.
Operational Many of the Groups financial systems are outsourced to Where appropriate, the Witan and WIS boards meet jointly to third parties, principally BNP Paribas Securities Services cover matters of common interest.
The WIS board consists BNPSS.
Disruption to the accounting, payment systems RI YH QRQ H[HFXWLYHV DQG RQH H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRU ZKR DUH or custody records operated by BNPSS could prevent the also directors of Witan, and one executive director who is a accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys Company employee.
BNPSS as the Companys depositary has a key responsibility for monitoring such issues on behalf of The Groups key risks fall broadly under the following the Company and its AIFM, WIS.
Details of how the Board categories: monitors the services provided by its suppliers, and the key elements designed to provide effective internal control, are Market and investment portfolio risks explained further in the Corporate Governance Statement.
Witan is set up to invest in UK and overseas equity markets on behalf of its shareholders.
Equity exposure is unlikely to Corporate governance drop below 80%, in normal conditions.
Therefore a key risk The Board takes its own regulatory responsibilities very of investing in Witan is a general fall in equity prices, which seriously and regularly reviews the main points of compliance could be exacerbated by gearing.
Other risks, as with any against requirements.
international equity portfolio, are the investment portfolios exposure to country, currency, industrial sector and stock Details of the Companys compliance with corporate VSHFLF IDFWRUV 7KHUH DUH DOVR ULVNV DVVRFLDWHG ZLWK FKDQJHV governance best practice are set out in the Corporate in Witans share price discount or premium to NAV and the Governance Statement on pages 34 to 43.
The Board conducts performance of its investment managers.
an annual internal assessment of the effectiveness of its governance processes in managing the Company and enabling The Board seeks to manage these risks through: it to evolve in response to future challenges.
There is also a appropriate asset allocation decisions, with a broadly 3-yearly independent external review, the most recent of which GLYHUVLHG HTXLW EHQFKPDUN was conducted in late 2013.
See page 38 for further details.
20 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Operational and regulatory risks are regularly and extensively Liquidity and going concern reviewed by Witans Audit Committee.
WIS is subject to its The Companys portfolio consists mainly of securities that are own operating rules and regulations and is regulated by the readily realisable.
The Company and its AIFM regularly review FCA.
Since becoming the AIFM for Witan, WIS has become possible liquidity needs for example to cover operational more closely involved in a wide range of Witans operations.
costs, loan servicing and repayment, shareholder dividends The Company has established a modus operandi for the and share buybacks relative to the Companys portfolio effective coordination of these responsibilities, which has income and the significance of possible liquidity calls relative been adapted to ensure full compliance with the AIFMDs to the value and tradability of the Companys assets.
Given requirements without duplication of effort and will continue that most of the likely liquidity requirements are readily to be adapted in the light of experience.
foreseeable for example, loan payments and dividends are timetabled, while others such as share buybacks are Operationally the multi-manager structure is robust, as subject to the Companys discretion, the Board is satisfied the investment managers, the custodian and the fund that unexpected liquidity needs are not significant relative accountants keep their own records which are regularly to the size of the Companys portfolio and that they could reconciled.
The depositary, AIFM and the Board provide be readily met without compromising normal portfolio additional checks and risk management safeguards.
Management monitors the activities of all third parties and reports any significant issues to the Board.
Accordingly, the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Accounting, legal and regulatory future.
Therefore, the directors believe that it is appropriate In order to qualify as an investment trust the Company to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the must comply with sections 1158-59 of the Corporation Tax financial statements.
In reviewing the position as at the date Act 2010 CTA.
A breach of these sections could result of this report, the Board has considered the guidance on this in the Company losing investment trust status and, as a matter issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
consequence, capital gains realised within the Companys portfolio would be subject to Corporation Tax.
The criteria are Viability Statement monitored by the CEO and AIFM and reviewed at each Board meeting.
The Company also carefully and regularly monitors In accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, FRPSOLDQFH ZLWK WKH DFFRXQWLQJ UXOHV DHFWLQJ Lnvestment the Board has assessed the prospects of the Company over trusts.
a longer period than the 12 months required by the Going Concern provision.
The new provisions require the Board to The Company is required to comply with the provisions of the explain, taking account of the Companys current position Companies Act 2006 Companies Act, and the Company and principal risks, how they have assessed its prospects must also comply with the UK Listing Authoritys Listing and over what period and why they consider that period to Rules and Disclosure Rules UKLA Rules.
A breach of the be appropriate.
The directors must state whether they have Companies Act could result in the Company and or the a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to GLUHFWRUV EHLQJ QHG RU EHFRPLQJ WKH VXEMHFW RI FULPLQDO continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Rules could result in the over the period of their assessment.
suspension of the Companys shares which would in turn lead to a breach of the provisions of the CTA.
The Companys current position and prospects are set out in the Chairmans and Chief Executives Reports and the 7KHVH OHJDO DQG UHJXODWRU UHTXLUHPHQWV RHU VLJQLFDQW Strategic Report.
The principal risks are set out on pages 20 protection for shareholders.
The Board relies on the CEO, the and 21.
The Board has considered the Companys financial AIFM, the Company Secretary and the Groups professional position and its ability to liquidate its portfolio and meet its advisers to ensure compliance with all applicable rules.
WIS expenses as they fall due and notes the following: is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority to act as the AIFM for Witan, for the marketing and administration of savings plans and the provision of investment advice to professional clients.
Annual Report 2015 Witan Investment Trust plc 21 Strategic Report Corporate and operational structure continued The portfolio consists of investments traded on major Investors will continue to want to invest in closedinternational stock exchanges and there is a spread of ended investment trusts: investments by size of company.
In normal conditions, The performance of the Company will continue to be the current portfolio could be liquidated to the extent satisfactory.
The Board is able to replace any of the of more than 85% within 5 trading days and there is no current investment managers when it considers it expectation that the nature of the investments held appropriate to do so.
within the portfolio will be materially different in future: The Company will continue to have access to adequate The closed-ended nature of the Company means that, capital when required.
The Company issued 10.5m unlike an open-ended fund, it does not need to realise ordinary shares in 2015 and had shareholders funds in investments when shareholders wish to sell their excess of 1.5bn at the end of 2015.
It also issued 75m shares: of fixed interest debt in June 2015.
This was done in The Board has considered the viability of the Company anticipation of the repayment of the 8.5% Debenture under various scenarios and concluded that it would Stock in 2016. usually be able to take appropriate action to protect the value of the Companys assets.
As set out in note Based on the results of its review, and taking into account 14 to the accounts, the Board has considered price risk the long-term nature of the Company and its financing, the sensitivity the sensitivity of the profit after taxation Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will for the year and the value of the shareholders funds to be able to continue its operations and meet its expenses and changes in the fair value of the Groups investments liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future, taken to and foreign currency sensitivity the sensitivity to mean at least the next five years.
changes in the exchange rates for the US dollar, Euro and Japanese yen.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of directors on In addition to its cash balances, which were 57.6 8{0DUFK DQG LV VLJQHG RQ LWV EHKDOI E million at 31 December 2015 2014: 46.6 million, the Company has a short-term bank facility which can be used to meet its liabilities and fixed-rate financing in H M Henderson A L C Bell the form of Debenture Stock, Secured Bonds, Secured Chairman Chief Executive Notes and cumulative preference shares.
With the 8 0DUFK exception of the short-term facility and the Debenture Stock, which is repayable in 2016, this financing will remain in place until at least 2025.
Details of the Companys non current liabilities are set out in note 13 to the accounts.
The expenses of the Company are predictable and modest in comparison with the assets and there are no capital commitments currently foreseen which would alter that position.
As well as considering the principal risks on pages 20 to 21 and the financial position of the Company, the Board has taken account of the following assumptions in considering the Companys longer-term viability: The Companys remit of investing in the securities of global listed companies will continue to be an activity to which investors will wish to have exposure: 22 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015
