Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the first Annual General Meeting the 'AGM' of Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc the 'Company' will be held at Sad Business School, Park End Street, Oxford OX1 1HP on 9 May 2015 at 11am to transact the business set out in the resolutions below.
Resolutions 1 to 11 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions, which means that for each of those ordinary resolutions to be passed, more than half of the votes cast must be in favour.
Resolutions 12 to 14 will be proposed as special resolutions, which means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour.
To receive the Companys annual financial statements for the financial period ended 31 December 2015 together with the strategic report, directors report and the auditors report on those financial statements 2.
To approve the directors remuneration report excluding the directors remuneration policy set out on page 57 of the Companys Annual Report and financial statements for the financial period ended 31 December 2015 3.
To approve the directors remuneration policy set out on pages 57 to 58 of the Companys Annual Report and financial statements for the financial period ended 31 December 2015 4 To re-elect Susan Searle as a Director 5.
To re-elect Steven Harris as a Director 6.
To re-elect Scott Brown as a Director 7.
To re-elect Dame Pamela Louise Makin as a Director 8.
To approve a final dividend of 16p per share 9.
To appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditor of the Company, to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next annual general meeting at which financial statements are laid before the Company 10.
To authorise the Board to determine the remuneration of the auditors 11.
THAT, in accordance with Section 551 of the Act, the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot ordinary shares in the Company up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 827,000, representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this notice, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2017, save that the Company may, before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require ordinary shares to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot ordinary shares in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 11, and in accordance with Sections 570 and 573 of the Act, the directors be and are hereby generally empowered to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 1 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred on the directors by Resolution 11 and to sell ordinary shares from Treasury for cash, as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 827,000 being 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at the date of this Notice, such power to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2017 unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting save that the Company may, at any time prior to the expiry of such power, make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require ordinary shares to be allotted or sold from Treasury after the expiry of such power and the directors may allot or sell ordinary shares from Treasury in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such power had not expired.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purpose of Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares of 0.01 each in the capital of the Company, provided that: a The maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased is 124,049,173 b The minimum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for each ordinary share is 0.01 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 93 c The maximum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount equal to the higher of: i 105% of the average of the mid-market values of the ordinary shares for the five business days before the purchase is made ii The higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share.
This authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2017 unless previously revoked, varied, renewed or extended by the Company in general meeting save that the Company may, before such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase shares which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority.
THAT a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited Company Secretary 21 March 2016 1st Floor, 40 Dukes Place, London EC3A 7NH 94 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Important notes to the notice of meeting The following notes 1.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies explain your general that only those shareholders entered on the Companys register of members at 6pm on 5 May 2016 rights as a shareholder or, if the meeting is adjourned, on the Companys register of members 48 hours before the time and your right to attend fixed for the adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the and vote at this AGM or number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the Companys to appoint someone else register of members after 6pm on 5 May 2016 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 48 hours before the to vote on your behalf.
time fixed for the adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
The doors will open at 10:30am and you may wish to arrive by 10:30am to register and take your seat in good time.
Light refreshments will be provided at the meeting.
If you have any special needs or require wheelchair access to the venue, please contact the Company Secretary by telephone on 020 7954 9799 in advance of the meeting.
Mobile phones may not be used in the meeting hall and cameras and recording equipment are not allowed in the meeting hall.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or part of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the AGM.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
A form of proxy which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
If you do not have a form of proxy and believe that you should have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact our Registrar, Capita Asset Services, on 0871 664 0300 or from outside the UK: 44 208 639 3399.
Calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access charge.
Lines are open between 9am 5:30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales 4.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Companys Register of Members in respect of the joint holding the first named being the most senior.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 3, 4 and 8 do not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolution.
If no voting indication is given, your proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion.
Your proxy will vote or abstain from voting as he or she thinks fit in relation to any other matter which is put before the AGM.
To be valid, any form of proxy or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand only at the Companys Registrar, Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU or in accordance with the address shown on the form of proxy or in the case of shares held through CREST, via the CREST system, see note 11 below.
In each case, for proxy appointments to be valid, they must be received by no later than 11am on 5 May 2016.
Note that the cut-off time for receipt of proxy appointments also applies in relation to amended instructions: any amended proxy appointment received after the relevant cut-off time will be disregarded.
If you return more than one proxy appointment, either by paper or electronic communication, that received last by the Registrar before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
You are advised to read the terms and conditions of use carefully.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 95 9.
The return of a completed form of proxy, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in note 12 below will not prevent a shareholder attending the AGM and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM and any adjournment of the AGM by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual available from euroclear.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message must be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 11am and after on 5 May 2016.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST application host from which the issuer's agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that no more than one corporate representative exercises powers in relation to the same shares.
As at 21 March 2016 being the last practicable business day prior to the publication of this notice, the Companys issued share capital was 827,000,000 carrying one vote per share.
No shares are held in Treasury.
Under Section 527 of the Act, shareholders meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
96 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 16.
Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
The following documents are available for inspection during normal business hours at the registered office of the Company on any business day from 21 March 2016 until the time of the AGM and may also be inspected at the AGM venue Sad Business School, Park End Street, Oxford OX1 1HP from 11am, on the day of the meeting until the conclusion of the AGM: Copies of the directors letters of appointment A copy of the Articles of Association of the Company.
You may not use any electronic address provided in either this notice or any related documents including the Form of Proxy to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by Section 311A of the Act, can be found on the Companys section of Woodford Investment Management LLPs website at woodfordfunds.
com Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 97 Notes 98 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Notes Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 99 Woodford Investment Management LLP, authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Registered office is 9400 Garsington Road, Oxford OX4 2HN.
