Statement of directors responsibility The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: Report and the financial statements in accordance Present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows with applicable laws and regulations.
Company law of the Company Select suitable accounting policies in accordance with United Kingdom requires the directors to prepare financial statements Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and then apply them consistently for each financial year.
Under that law they have Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that elected to prepare the financial statements in provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, Accepted Accounting Practice.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements Under company law the directors must not approve Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is the financial statements unless they are satisfied inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of each financial The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that year and of the profit or loss of the Company for are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose that period.
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the strategic report, the directors report, the directors remuneration report, the corporate governance statement and the report of the Audit Committee in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable regulations, including the requirements of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The directors have delegated responsibility to the manager for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys corporate and financial information included on Woodford Investment Management LLPs website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names are listed on pages 32 to 33, confirms that: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Company The strategic report contained in the Annual Report and financial statements includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code requires directors to ensure that the Annual Report and financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
In order to reach a conclusion on this matter, the Board has requested that the Audit Committee advises on whether it considers that the Annual Report and financial statements fulfils these requirements.
The process by which the Committee has reached these conclusions is set out in the Audit Committees report on pages 53 to 55.
As a result, the Board has concluded that the Annual Report for the period ended 31 December 2015, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Signed on behalf of the Board of directors by: Susan Searle Chairman 21 March 2016 62 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 63
