235876 Finsbury WWH pp69-pp86new 03 07 2015 12:41 Page 82 AIFMD Related Disclosures unaudited The AIFM is required to make certain disclosures to Contractual Relationship with the Company prospective investors prior to their investment in the Company, A description of the main legal implications of the in accordance with Article 23 AIFMD and 3.2.
3R of contractual relationship entered into for the purpose of the FUND Sourcebook to the FCA Handbook.
Each of these investment in the Company, including information on disclosures or an explanation of where they may be found in jurisdiction and applicable law, is contained in the Investor this Annual Report or elsewhere is set out in this disclosure.
In Disclosure Document a copy of which can be viewed on the the period from 22 July 2014 to the date of this report, there Companys website www.
have been no material changes to this information, with the The articles between the Companys shareholders and the exception of the change in the gearing limit which is disclosed Company are governed by English law and, by purchasing in the Strategic Report on pages 4 and 5. shares, investors agree that the Courts of England have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any disputes.
All Investment Objective and Leverage communications in connection with the purchase of the A description of the investment strategy and objectives of the Companys shares will be in English.
Certain judgments Company, the types of assets in which the Company may obtained in EU member states excluding Denmark at this invest, the techniques it may employ, any applicable time in proceedings commenced on or after 10 January investment restrictions, the circumstances in which it may use 2015, can be enforced in England and Wales under the leverage, the types and sources of leverage permitted and the Recast Brussels Regulation by obtaining a certificate from associated risks, any restrictions on the use of leverage and the court of origin certifying that the judgment is enforceable, the maximum level of leverage which the AIFM and Portfolio serving the certificate and judgment on the judgment debtor Manager are entitled to employ on behalf of the Company and and, when seeking enforcement, providing the courts of the procedures by which the Company may change its England and Wales with an authenticated copy of the investment strategy and or the investment policy can be found judgment and certificate and certifying compliance with the on page 6 under the heading Investment Strategy.
requirements as to service on the debtor.
The judgment The table below sets out the current maximum permitted debtor can apply for the enforcement of the judgment to be limit and actual level of leverages for the Company: As a refused on limited grounds.
Further, certain judgments percentage of net assets obtained in EU member states including Denmark in proceedings commenced before 10 January 2015, or in Gross Commitment Iceland, Norway and Switzerland can be enforced in England Method Method and Wales under the 2001 Brussels Regulation or the 2007 Maximum level of leverage 140% 140% Lugano Convention and certain judgments obtained from a Actual level at 31 March 2015 115% 113% country to which any of the Administration of Justice Act 1920, the Foreign Judgments Reciprocal Enforcement Act Risks 1933 or the Civil Jurisdiction and Judgments Act 1982 applies The principal risks associated with the investment strategy, can also be enforced in England and Wales by making an objectives and techniques of the Company and with the use of application to the High Court for an order for registration of leverage by the Company are contained in the Strategic Report the judgment for enforcement.
The judgment debtor may on pages 20 to 22 under the heading Principal Risks.
appeal challenge registration on limited grounds.
It may also Shareholders and prospective investors should note that the be possible to enforce a judgment obtained in a country to risks summarised under Principal Risks are the risks that which none of the above regimes apply in England and Wales the Board believes to be the most essential to an assessment if such judgment is: 1 final and conclusive on the merits: of whether to invest in the Company.
Shareholders may lose 2 given by a court regarded by English law as competent to the value of their investment in the Company for reasons other do so: and 3 for a fixed sum of money.
than those set out therein, for reasons not currently considered by the Board or based on circumstances or facts of which the Board is not currently aware.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 82 235876 Finsbury WWH pp69-pp86new 03 07 2015 12:41 Page 83 4 Further Information AIFMD Related Disclosures unaudited continued ii unquoted investments are valued by the Directors Details of Service Providers using primary valuation techniques such as Details of the AIFM, Portfolio Manager, Depositary, Prime discounted multiple of revenue.
Broker, Auditors and other service providers to the Company and their duties to the Company can be found in the Strategic c All other property contained within the Companys Report on page 19 and in the Report of the Directors on portfolio of assets will be priced at a value which, in the pages 26 and 27.
No shareholder, in their capacity as such, opinion of the AIFM, represents a fair and reasonable will generally have any direct contractual claim against any price see below.
service provider to the Company with respect to such service d If there are any outstanding agreements to purchase or providers default of any of their duties towards the Company.
sell any of the Companys portfolio of assets which are incomplete, then the valuation will assume completion of Professional Liability Risk the agreement.
To comply with its obligations under the AIFMD rules and e Added to the valuation will be: regulations the AIFM Rules, relating to professional liability i any accrued and anticipated tax repayments of the risk, the AIFM has taken out professional indemnity insurance Company: against liability arising from professional negligence.
ii any money due to the Company because of ordinary Management Functions Delegated by AIFM shares issued prior to the relevant Dealing Day: A description of safe-keeping functions delegated by the iii income due and attributed to the Company but not Depositary, management functions delegated by the AIFM received: and and the identity of such delegates can be found in the Strategic Report on page 19 and in the Report of the iv any other credit of the Company due to be received Directors on pages 26 and 27.
The AIFM does not consider by the Company.
that any conflicts of interest arise from the delegation of its Amounts which are fide minimis may be omitted from the portfolio management function to OrbiMed, or from the valuation.
delegation of the Depositarys safekeeping function to the f Deducted from the valuation will be: Prime Broker or any further sub-custodians.
i any anticipated tax liabilities of the Company: Valuation Policy ii any money due to be paid out by the Company The Companys portfolio of assets will be valued on each because of ordinary shares bought back by the Dealing Day a day on which the London Stock Exchange and Company prior to the valuation: banks in England and Wales are normally open for business.
iii the principal amount and any accrued but unpaid All instructions to issue or buy-back ordinary shares given interest on any borrowings: and for a prior Dealing Day shall be assumed to have been iv any other liabilities of the Company, with periodic carried out and any cash paid or received.
items accruing on a daily basis.
The valuation will be based on the following: Amounts which are fide minimis may be omitted from the a Cash and amounts held in current and deposit accounts valuation.
and in other time-related deposits will be valued at their Where the Company trades in investments where prices are nominal value.
not available on an exchange, quotations from brokers are b All transferable securities will be valued at fair value: utilised as follows: i fair value for quoted investments is deemed to be i where possible at least two quotations will be bid market prices, or last traded price, depending on obtained: and the convention of the exchange on which they are ii the quotations should come from active participants quoted: and in the market.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 83 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 235876 Finsbury WWH pp69-pp86new 03 07 2015 12:41 Page 84 Where only one quotation can be obtained the valuation will costs of printing the Companys financial reports and be considered in conjunction with other market-based posting them to shareholders.
observations such as comparable sources.
Such fees and expenses are not subject to a maximum unit.
Valuations of net asset value per ordinary share will be Shareholders do not bear any fees, charges and expenses suspended only in any circumstances in which the underlying directly, other than any fees, charges and expenses incurred data necessary to value the investments of the Company as a consequence of acquiring, transferring, redeeming or cannot readily or without undue expenditure be obtained.
Any otherwise selling ordinary shares.
such suspension will be announced to a Regulatory Information Service.
Remuneration of AIFM Staff Following completion of an assessment of the application of Liquidity Risk Management the proportionality principle to the FCAs AIFM Remuneration The AIFM maintains a liquidity management policy to Code, the AIFM has disapplied the pay-out process rules with monitor the liquidity risk of the Company.
Shareholders have respect to it and any of its delegates.
This is because the no right to redeem their ordinary shares from the Company AIFM considers that it carries out non-complex activities and but may trade their ordinary shares on the secondary is operating on a small scale.
However, there is no guarantee that there is a liquid market in the ordinary shares.
Fair Treatment of Investors Further details regarding the risk management process and The AIFM has procedures, arrangements and policies in liquidity management are available from the AIFM, on request.
place to ensure compliance with the principles more particularly described in the AIFM Rules relating to the fair Fees treatment of investors.
The principles of treating investors A description of certain of the fees, charges and expenses fairly include, but are not limited to: and of the maximum amounts thereof to the extent that this can be assessed which are borne by the Company and thus acting in the best interests of the Company and of the indirectly by investors can be found on pages 26 and 27 under shareholders: the heading Significant Agreements.
In addition to these ensuring that the investment decisions taken for the management, administration and secretarial fees, the account of the Company are executed in accordance with Company will pay all other fees, charges and expenses the Companys investment policy and objective and risk incurred in the operation of its business including, without profile: limitation: ensuring that the interests of any group of shareholders brokerage and other transaction charges and taxes: are not placed above the interests of any other group of Directors fees and expenses: shareholders: fees and expenses for custodial, registrar, legal, auditing ensuring that fair, correct and transparent pricing models and other professional services: and valuation systems are used for the Company: any borrowing costs: preventing undue costs being charged to the Company and shareholders: the ongoing costs of maintaining the listing of the ordinary shares and their continued admission to trading taking all reasonable steps to avoid conflicts of interests on the London Stock Exchange: and, when they cannot be avoided, identifying, managing, monitoring and, where applicable, disclosing those Directors and Officers insurance premiums: conflicts of interest to prevent them from adversely promotional expenses including membership of any affecting the interests of shareholders: and industry bodies, including the AIC, and marketing recognising and dealing with complaints fairly.
initiatives approved by the Board : and Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 84 235876 Finsbury WWH pp69-pp86new 03 07 2015 12:41 Page 85 4 Further Information AIFMD Related Disclosures unaudited continued The AIFM maintains and operates organisational, procedural outstanding overdraft can be taken as collateral by the and administrative arrangements and implements policies and Prime Broker.
Such assets may be used by the Prime procedures designed to manage actual and potential conflicts Broker and such use may include their being loaned, of interest.
In addition, as its shares are premium listed on the sold, rehypothecated or transferred by the Prime Broker.
Official List of the UK Listing Authority and traded on the main The AIFM does not consider that any conflicts of interest market of the London Stock Exchange, the Company is arise from the appointment of the Prime Broker.
required to comply with, among other things, the FCAs Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the The Prime Broker is liable for the loss of the Companys Takeover Code, all of which operate to ensure a fair treatment financial instruments, the custody of which has been of investors.
As at the date of this annual report, no investor delegated to it by the Depositary.
has obtained preferential treatment or the right to obtain preferential treatment.
Transfer and Reuse of the Companys Assets As noted above the Prime Broker may take up to 140% of the Procedure and Conditions for the Issuance of value of the outstanding overdraft to use for its own account.
Ordinary Shares The Companys shares may be purchased and sold on the Discharge of Depositary Liability main market of the London Stock Exchange.
J. P. Morgan Europe Limited has discharged its liability under article 21 12 of the AIFMD in respect of its obligation under the While the Company has shareholder authority to buy-back first and second paragraphs of that article, regarding its liability shares, shareholders do not have the right to have their for loss of financial instruments held by the prime broker.
shares purchased by the Company.
Periodic Disclosures Net Asset Value None of the Companys assets are subject to special The net asset value of the Companys shares is published arrangements arising from their illiquid nature.
daily by the AIFM via a Regulatory Information Service announcement.
No new arrangements have been implemented in order to manage the liquidity of the Company in the period running Historical Performance from 22 July 2014 to 31 March 2015.
Historical financial information demonstrating the The maximum level of gearing which the AIFM is entitled to Companys historical performance can be found on page 2. employ on behalf of the Company is 20% of net assets.
Prior Copies of the Companys audited accounts for the three to 9 April 2015 the maximum gearing was the lower of financial years ended 31 March 2015 are available for 120 million and 20% of net assets.
The Company provided inspection at the address of Frostrow and can be viewed on the requisite notice to the FCA.
the Companys website at www.
Further disclosures required under the AIFM Rules can be The Prime Broker found within the Investor Disclosure Document on the The services provided by J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp as Prime Companys website: www.
Broker to the Company include: a safe-keeping of the assets of the Company that can be held in custody including book entry securities : b the processing of transactions on behalf of the Company: Frostrow Capital LLP and Alternative Investment Fund Manager c the provision to the Company of an overdraft facility which is repayable on demand.
Up to 140% of the value of the 24 June 2015 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 85 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015
