235876 Finsbury WWH pp69-pp86new 03 07 2015 12:41 Page 79 4 Further Information Explanatory Notes to the Resolutions Resolution 1 To receive the Annual Report and Accounts shareholders have pre-emption rights and that the new The Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March shares must be offered first to such shareholders in 2015 will be presented to the Annual General Meeting AGM.
proportion to their existing holding of shares.
However, These accounts accompany this Notice of Meeting and shareholders can, by special resolution, authorise the shareholders will be given an opportunity at the meeting to Directors to allot shares otherwise than by a pro rata issue to ask questions.
11 will, if passed, give the Directors power to allot for cash equity Resolutions 2 to 7 Re-election of Directors securities up to 10% of the Companys existing share capital Resolutions 2 to 7 deal with the re-election of each Director.
on 24 June 2015, as if Section 551 of the Act does not apply.
Biographies of each of the Directors can be found on This is the same nominal amount of share capital which the pages 23 and 24 of the annual report.
Directors are seeking the authority to allot pursuant to Resolution No.
This authority will also expire on the date The Board has confirmed, following a performance review, of the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of that the Directors standing for re-election continue to 15 months, whichever is earlier.
This authority will not be perform effectively.
used in connection with a rights issue by the Company.
Resolution 8 Re-appointment of Auditors and the Under the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury determination of their remuneration Shares Regulations 2003 as amended the Treasury Share Resolution 8 relates to the re-appointment of Regulations the Company is permitted to buy-back and  LLP as the Companys independent hold shares in treasury and then sell them at a later date for Auditors to hold office until the next AGM of the Company and cash, rather than cancelling them.
The Treasury Share also authorises the Audit Committee to set their Regulations require such sale to be on a pre-emptive, pro remuneration.
Following the implementation of the rata, basis to existing shareholders unless shareholders Competition and Markets Authority order on Statutory Audit agree by special resolution to disapply such pre-emption Services, which is effective for the Company from 1 January rights.
Accordingly, in addition to giving the Directors power 2015, only the Audit Committee may negotiate and agree the to allot unissued share capital on a non pre-emptive basis terms of the Auditors service agreement.
pursuant to Resolution 11, Resolution 12, if passed, will give the Directors authority to sell shares held in treasury on a Resolution 9 non pre-emptive basis.
No dividends may be paid on any The Directors Remuneration Report is set out in full in the shares held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to annual report on pages 40 and 41. such shares.
The benefit of the ability to hold treasury shares is that such shares may be resold.
This should give the Resolutions 10, 11 and 12 Company greater flexibility in managing its share capital, and Ordinary Resolution No.
10 in the Notice of AGM will renew improve liquidity in its shares.
It is the intention of the Board the authority to allot the unissued share capital up to an that any re-sale of treasury shares would only take place at a aggregate nominal amount of 1,194,331 equivalent to narrower discount to the net asset value per share than that 4,777,324 shares, or 10% of the Companys existing issued at which they had been bought into treasury, and in any event share capital on 24 June 2015, being the nearest practicable at a discount no greater than 5% to the prevailing diluted date prior to the signing of this Report.
Such authority will cum income net asset value per share, and this is reflected in expire on the date of the next AGM or after a period of the text of Resolution 12.
It is also the intention of the Board 15 months from the date of the passing of the resolution, that sales from treasury would only take place when the whichever is earlier.
This means that the authority will have Board believes that to do so would assist in the provision of to be renewed at the next AGM.
The number of treasury shares which When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 551 of the may be sold pursuant to this authority is limited to 10% of the Companies Act 2006 the Act provides that existing Companys existing share capital on 24 June 2015 reduced Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 79 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 235876 Finsbury WWH pp69-pp86new 03 07 2015 12:41 Page 80 by any equity securities allotted for cash on a non-pro rata independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is basis pursuant to Resolution 11, as described above.
The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per authority will also expire on the date of the next Annual Ordinary Share.
Existing shares which are purchased under General Meeting or after a period of 15 months, whichever this authority will either be cancelled or held as is earlier.
The Directors intend to use the authority given by Special Resolution No.
13 in the Notice of AGM will renew the Resolutions Nos.
10, 11 and 12 to allot shares and disapply authority to purchase in the market a maximum of 14.99% of pre-emption rights only in circumstances where this will be Ordinary Shares in issue on 24 June 2015, being the nearest clearly beneficial to shareholders as a whole.
The issue practicable date prior to the signing of this Report, proceeds would be available for investment in line with the amounting to 7,161,210 Ordinary Shares.
Such authority will Companys investment policy.
No issue of shares will be expire on the date of the next AGM or after a period of made which would effectively alter the control of the 15 months from the date of passing of the resolution, Company without the prior approval of shareholders in whichever is earlier.
This means in effect that the authority general meeting.
will have to be renewed at the next AGM or earlier if the authority has been exhausted.
Resolution 13 Resolution 14 The Directors wish to renew the authority given by shareholders at the previous AGM.
The principal aim of a Special Resolution No.
14 seeks shareholder approval to share buy-back facility is to enhance shareholder value by make certain changes to the Companys Articles of acquiring shares at a discount to net asset value, as and Association inter alia to enable the Company to comply with when the Directors consider this to be appropriate.
The its obligations under various international tax regulations, purchase of Ordinary Shares, when they are trading at a and also the removal of references to Subscription Shares discount to net asset value per share should result in an and Special Deferred Shares which are now obsolete.
Full increase in the net asset value per share for the remaining explanatory notes of the principal changes to the Articles of shareholders.
This authority, if conferred, will only be Association are set out on page 81 of this annual report.
exercised if to do so would result in an increase in the net Resolution 15 asset value per share for the remaining shareholders and if it Special Resolution No.
15 seeks shareholder approval for the is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any Company to hold General Meetings other than the AGM at purchase of shares will be made within guidelines 14 working days notice.
established from time to time by the Board.
It is proposed to seek shareholder authority to renew this facility for another Recommendation year at the AGM.
The Board considers that the resolutions relating to the Under the current Listing Rules, the maximum price that above items are in the best interests of shareholders as a may be paid on the exercise of this authority must not exceed whole.
Accordingly, the Board unanimously recommends to the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market the shareholders that they vote in favour of the above quotations for the shares over the five business days resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM as the immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial higher of the last independent trade and the highest current holdings totalling 42,624 shares.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 80
