235876 Finsbury WWH pp69-pp86new 03 07 2015 12:41 Page 72 How to Invest Retail Investors Advised by IFAs The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its shares can be recommended by Independent Financial Advisers IFAs in the UK to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA rules in relationship to non-mainstream investment procedures and intends to continue to do so.
The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
Investment Platforms The Companys shares are traded openly on the London Stock Exchange and can be purchased through a stock broker or other financial intermediary.
The shares are available through savings plans including Investment Dealing Accounts, ISAs, Junior ISAs and SIPPs which facilitate both regular monthly investments and lump sum investments in the Companys shares.
There are a number of investment platforms that offer these facilities.
A list of some of them, that is not comprehensive nor constitutes any form of recommendation, can be found below: AJ Bell Youinvest http: www.
co. uk Alliance Trust Savings http: www.
co. uk Barclays Stockbrokers https: www.
aspx Charles Stanley Direct https: www.
co. uk Club Finance http: www.
co. uk wps portal FundsDirect http: www.
Halifax Share Dealing http: www.
co. uk Sharedealing Hargreaves Lansdown http: www.
co. uk HSBC https: investments.
co. uk Interactive Investor http: www.
asp James Brearley http: www.
aspx Natwest Stockbrokers http: www.
ashx Saga Share Direct https: www.
co. uk The Share Centre https: www.
com Saxo Capital Markets http: uk.
com TD Direct Investing http: www.
co. uk Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 72 235876 Finsbury WWH pp69-pp86new 03 07 2015 12:41 Page 73 4 Further Information How to Invest continued Capita Asset Services Share Dealing Service A quick and easy share dealing service is available to existing shareholders through the Companys Registrars, Capita Asset Services, to either buy or sell shares.
An online and telephone dealing facility provides an easy to access and simple to use service.
There is no need to pre-register and there are no complicated forms to fill in.
The online and telephone dealing service allows you to trade real time at a known price which will be given to you at the time you give your instruction.
To deal online or by telephone all you need is your surname, shareholder reference number, full postcode and your date of birth.
Your shareholder reference number can be found on your latest statement or certificate where it will appear as either a folio number or investor code.
Please have the appropriate documents to hand when you log on or call, as this information will be needed before you can buy or sell shares.
The maximum deal size for online trades is 25,000.
Deals in excess of this amount can be transacted by telephone.
Charges will be confirmed at the time of dealing.
For further information on this service please contact: www.
com online dealing or 44 0 371 664 0445 telephone dealing.
Calls are charged at the standard geographical rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open 8.00 am to 4.30 pm Monday to Friday.
Risk warnings Past performance is no guarantee of future performance.
The value of your investment and any income from it may go down as well as up and you may not get back the amount invested.
This is because the share price is determined by the changing conditions in the relevant stockmarkets in which the Company invests and by the supply and demand for the Companys shares.
As the shares in an investment trust are traded on a stockmarket, the share price will fluctuate in accordance with supply and demand and may not reflect the underlying net asset value of the shares: where the share price is less than the underlying value of the assets, the difference is known as the discount.
For these reasons, investors may not get back the original amount invested.
Although the Companys financial statements are denominated in sterling, it may invest in stocks and shares that are denominated in currencies other than sterling and to the extent they do so, they may be affected by movements in exchange rates.
As a result, the value of your investment may rise or fall with movements in exchange rates.
Investors should note that tax rates and reliefs may change at any time in the future.
The value of ISA and Junior ISA tax advantages will depend on personal circumstances.
The favourable tax treatment of ISAs and Junior ISAs may not be maintained.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 73 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015
