235876 Finsbury WWH pp23-pp29new 03 07 2015 12:33 Page 29 2 Governance Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company law in the United Kingdom requires the Directors Going Concern to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The The financial statements have been prepared on a going Directors are responsible for preparing the Financial concern basis.
The Directors consider this is the appropriate Statements in accordance with applicable law and basis as the Company has adequate resources to continue in regulations.
In preparing these financial statements, the operational existence for the foreseeable future, being taken Directors have: as 12 months after approval of the financial statements.
In considering this, the Directors took into account the selected suitable accounting policies and applied them diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can consistently: be used to meet funding commitments and the ability of the made judgments and estimates that are reasonable and Company to meet all of its liabilities, including the overdraft prudent: and ongoing expenses from its assets.
followed applicable UK accounting standards: and Disclosure of Information to the Auditors prepared the financial statements on a going concern So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant basis.
information of which the Auditors are unaware.
The Directors have taken all steps they ought to have taken to The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate make themselves aware of any relevant audit information accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy and to establish that the Auditors are aware of such at any time the financial position of the Company and enable information.
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for Responsibility Statement of the Directors in safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for respect of the Annual Financial Report taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of The Directors, whose details can be found on pages 23 and fraud and other irregularities.
24, confirm to the best of their knowledge that: The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Report of the Financial Statements, within this Annual Report, the Directors and other information included in the Annual have been prepared in accordance with applicable Report is prepared in accordance with company law in the accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the United Kingdom.
They are also responsible for ensuring that assets, liabilities, financial position and the return for the the Annual Report includes information required by the year ended 31 March 2015: Listing Rules of the FCA.
the Chairmans Statement, Strategic Report and the The financial statements are published on the Companys Report of the Directors include a fair review of the website www.
com and via Frostrows website information required by 4.1.
The maintenance and integrity of these Disclosure and Transparency Rules: and websites, so far as it relates to the Company, is the responsibility of Frostrow.
The work carried out by the the annual report and financial statements taken as a Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide and integrity of these websites and, accordingly, the Auditors the information necessary to assess the Companys accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred performance, business model and strategy.
to the financial statements since they were initially presented on these websites.
Visitors to the websites need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing On behalf of the Board the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
Sir Martin Smith Chairman 24 June 2015 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 29 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015
