GLOSSARY Annualised rent is the gross property rent receivable on a cash EPRA is the European Public Real Estate Association, the industry basis as at the reporting date.
Additionally, it includes the external body for European REITs.
valuers estimate of additional rent in respect of unsettled rent review, turnover rent and sundry income such as that from car EPRA Cost Ratio including direct vacancy costs is the ratio of net parks and commercialisation, less any ground rents payable under overheads and operating expenses against gross rental income head leases.
with both amounts excluding ground rents payable.
Net overheads and operating expenses relate to all administrative and operating Assets under management is the full value of all assets managed expenses including the share of joint ventures overheads and by British Land and includes 100% of the value of all joint ventures operating expenses, net of any service fees, recharges or other and funds.
income specifically intended to cover overhead and property expenses.
BREEAM Building Research Establishment Environmental EPRA Cost Ratio excluding direct vacancy costs is the ratio Assessment Method assesses the sustainability of buildings calculated above, but with direct vacancy costs removed from against a range of social and environmental criteria.
net overheads and operating expenses balance.
Capital return is calculated as the change in capital value of the EPRA earnings is the profit after taxation excluding investment and UK portfolio, less any capital expenditure incurred, expressed as development property revaluations and gains losses on disposals, a percentage of capital employed over the period, as calculated by changes in the fair value of financial instruments and associated IPD.
Capital returns are calculated monthly and indexed to provide close-out costs and their related taxation.
a return over the relevant period.
EPRA NAV per share is EPRA NAV divided by the diluted number Capped rents are rents subject to a maximum level of uplift of shares at the period end.
at the specified rent reviews as agreed at the time of letting.
EPRA net assets EPRA NAV are the balance sheet net assets Collar rents are rents subject to a minimum level of uplift excluding the mark-to-market on effective cash flow hedges and at the specified rent reviews as agreed at the time of letting.
related debt adjustments and deferred taxation on revaluations.
Contracted rent is the annualised rent adjusting for the inclusion EPRA net initial yield is the annualised rents generated by the of rent subject to rent free periods.
portfolio, after the deduction of an estimate of annual recurring irrecoverable property outgoings, expressed as a percentage Customer satisfaction our definition of customer satisfaction has of the portfolio valuation adding notional purchasers costs, this year been expanded to include consumers as well as occupiers, excluding development and residential properties.
to better relate to our focus on creating Places People Prefer.
This year we have included exit survey data for consumer satisfaction in EPRA NNNAV is the EPRA NAV adjusted to reflect the fair value of the retail business FY2014-15 vs FY2013-14, as well as office and debt and derivatives and to include deferred taxation on revaluations.
retail occupier satisfaction scores, and in future we aim to be able to further expand to include consumer satisfaction for other sectors.
EPRA Topped-Up Net Initial Yield is the current annualised rent, net of costs, topped-up for contracted uplifts, where these are not in lieu Developers profit is the profit on cost estimated by the valuers of rental growth, expressed as a percentage of capital value, after that a developer would expect.
The developers profit is typically allowing for notional purchasers costs.
calculated by the valuers to be a percentage of the estimated total development costs, including land and notional finance costs.
EPRA vacancy rate is the estimated market rental value ERV of vacant space divided by ERV of the whole portfolio, excluding Development uplift is the total increase in the value after taking developments and residential property.
This is the inverse of the account of capital expenditure and capitalised interest of properties occupancy rate.
held for development during the period.
It also includes any developers profit recognised by valuers in the period.
Estimated Rental Value ERV is the external valuers opinion as to the open market rent which, on the date of valuation, could Development cost is the total cost of construction of a project to reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent completion, excluding site values and finance costs finance costs review of a property.
are assumed by the valuers at a notional rate of 5.5% per annum.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 193 Other information GLOSSARY CONTINUED Fair value movement is accounting adjustment to change the book Mark-to-market is the difference between the book value of an asset value of an asset or liability to its market value.
or liability and its market value.
Footfall is the annualised number of visitors entering our assets Multi-channel retailing is the use of a variety of channels in a customers calculated on a weighted basis.
shopping experience, including research, before a purchase.
Such channels include: retail stores, online stores, mobile stores, mobile Gross investment activity as measured by our share of acquisitions, app stores, telephone sales and any other method of transacting with sales and investment in committed development.
Transacting includes browsing, buying, returning as well as preand post-sale service.
Gross rental income is the gross accounting rent receivable quoted either for the period or on an annualised basis prepared under IFRS Net Development Value is the estimated end value of a development which requires that rental income from fixed minimum guaranteed project as determined by the external valuers for when the building rent reviews and tenant incentives is spread on a straight-line basis is completed and fully let taking into account tenant incentives and over the entire lease to first break.
This can result in income being notional purchasers costs.
It is based on the valuers view on ERVs, recognised ahead of cash flow.
yields, letting voids and rent-frees.
Group is The British Land Company PLC and its subsidiaries and Net effective rent is the contracted gross rent receivable taking excludes its share of joint ventures and funds where not treated as a into account any rent-free period or other tenant incentives.
The subsidiary on a line-by-line basis i. e. not proportionally consolidated.
incentives are treated as a cost-to-rent and spread over the lease to the earliest termination date.
Headline rent is the contracted gross rent receivable which becomes payable after all the tenant incentives in the letting have expired.
Net equivalent yield is the weighted average income return after allowing for notional purchasers costs a property will produce IFRS are the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted based upon the timing of the income received.
In accordance with by the European Union.
usual practice, the equivalent yields as determined by the external valuers assume rent is received annually in arrears.
Income return is calculated as net income expressed as a percentage of capital employed over the period, as calculated Net Initial Yield is the current annualised rent, net of costs, by IPD.
Income returns are calculated monthly and indexed to expressed as a percentage of capital value, after allowing for provide a return over the relevant period.
Interest cover is the number of times net interest payable Net rental income is the rental income receivable in the period is covered by underlying profit before net interest payable after payment of direct property outgoings which typically comprise and taxation.
ground rents payable under head leases, void costs, net service charge expenses and other direct irrecoverable property expenses.
IPD is Investment Property Databank Ltd which produces an Net rental income is quoted on an accounting basis.
Net rental independent benchmark of property returns and British Land income will differ from annualised net cash rents and passing rent UK portfolio returns.
due to the effects of income from rent reviews, net property outgoings and accounting adjustments for fixed and minimum contracted rent Lettings and lease renewals are compared both to the previous reviews and lease incentives.
passing rent as at the start of the financial year and the ERV immediately prior to letting.
Both comparisons are made on Net reversionary yield is the anticipated yield to which the initial yield a net effective basis.
will rise or fall once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
Leverage see loan to value LTV.
Occupancy rate is the estimated rental value of let units as a percentage of the total estimated rental value of the portfolio, Like-for-like ERV growth is the change in ERV over a period on the excluding development properties.
It includes accommodation standing investment properties expressed as a percentage of the under offer or subject to asset management where they have ERV at the start of the period.
Like-for-like ERV growth is calculated been taken back for refurbishment and are not available to let monthly and compounded for the period subject to measurement, as at the balance sheet date.
Omni-channel retailing is the evolution of multi-channel retailing, Like-for-like rental income growth is the growth in net rental income but is concentrated more on a seamless approach to the consumer on properties owned throughout the current and previous periods experience through all available shopping channels i. e. mobile under review.
This growth rate includes revenue recognition and lease internet devices, computers, bricks and mortar, television, radio, accounting adjustments but excludes properties held for development direct mail, catalogue, etc.
in either period and properties with guaranteed rent reviews.
Over rented is the term used to describe when the contracted rent Loan to value LTV is the ratio of principal value of gross debt less is above the estimated rental value ERV.
cash, short term deposits and liquid investments to the aggregate value of properties and investments.
Overall topped-up net initial yield is the EPRA Net topped-up Initial Yield, adding all contracted uplifts to the annualised rents.
194 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Passing rent is the gross rent, less any ground rent payable Retail planning consents are separated between A1, A2 and A3 under head leases.
as set out in The Town and Country Planning Use Classes Order.
Within the A1 category, Open A1 permission allows for any type Portfolio valuation movement is the increase in value of the of retail to be accommodated, while Restricted A1 permission portfolio of properties held at the balance sheet date and net sales places limits on the types of retail that can operate for example, receipts of those sold during the period, expressed as a percentage a restriction that only bulky goods operators are allowed to trade of the capital value at the start of the period plus net capital at that site.
expenditure, capitalised interest and transaction costs.
Class Description Use for all any of the following purposes Property Income Distributions PIDs are profits distributed A1 Shops Shops, retail warehouses, hairdressers, to shareholders which are subject to tax in the hands of the undertakers, travel and ticket agencies, shareholders as property income.
PIDs are normally paid net post offices, pet shops, sandwich bars, of withholding tax currently at 20% which the REIT pays to the showrooms, domestic hire shops, tax authorities on behalf of the shareholder.
Certain types of dry cleaners, funeral directors and shareholder i. e. pension funds are tax exempt and receive PIDs internet cafes.
Property companies also pay out normal dividends, called non-PIDs, which are treated as normal dividends A2 Financial and Financial services such as banks and are not subject to withholding tax.
professional and building societies, professional services services other than health and Property valuation is reported by the Groups external valuers.
medical services and including estate In accordance with usual practice, they report valuations net, after and employment agencies.
It does the deduction of the notional purchasers costs, including stamp duty not include betting offices or pay day land tax, agent and legal fees.
loan shops - these are now classed as suigeneris uses.
Rack rented is the term used to describe when the contracted rent is in line with the estimated rental value ERV, implying a nil reversion.
A3 Restaurants For the sale of food and drink for and cafes consumption on the premises - Rent-free period see Tenant or lease incentives.
restaurants, snack bars and cafes.
REITs are property companies that allow people and organisations to D2 Assembly Cinemas, music and concert halls, invest in commercial property and receive benefits as if they directly and leisure bingo and dance halls but not night owned the properties themselves.
The rental income, after costs, clubs, swimming baths, skating rinks, is passed directly to shareholders in the form of dividends.
In the UK gymnasiums or areas for indoor or REITs are required to distribute at least 90% of their tax exempt outdoor sports and recreations.
property income to shareholders as dividends.
As a result, over time, a significant proportion of the total return for shareholders is likely to come from dividends.
The effect is that taxation is moved from the Reversion is the increase in rent estimated by the external valuers, corporate level to the investor level as investors are liable for tax as where the passing rent is below the estimated rental value.
The if they owned the property directly.
British Land became a REIT in increases to rent arises on rent reviews and lettings.
January 2007 Scrip dividend British Land offers its shareholders the opportunity Rent reviews take place at intervals agreed in the lease typically to receive dividends in the form of shares instead of cash.
This is every five years and their purpose is usually to adjust the rent to known as a Scrip dividend.
the current market level at the review date.
For upwards-only rent reviews, the rent will either remain at the same level or increase Standing investments are assets which are directly held and not if market rents have increased at the review date.
in the course of development.
Rents with fixed and minimum uplifts are either where rents are subject to contracted uplifts at a level agreed at the time of letting: or where the rent is subject to an agreed minimum level of uplift at the specified rent review.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 195 Other information GLOSSARY CONTINUED Tenant or lease incentives are incentives offered to occupiers Virtual freehold represents a long leasehold tenure for a period to enter into a lease.
Typically this will be an initial rent-free period, of up to 999 years.
A peppercorn, or nominal, rent is paid annually.
or a cash contribution to fit-out.
Under accounting rules the value of lease incentives is amortised through the income statement on Weighted average debt maturity each tranche of Group debt a straight-line basis to the earliest lease termination date.
is multiplied by the remaining period to its maturity and the result is divided by total Group debt in issue at the period end.
TMT stands for technology, media and telecommunications.
Weighted average interest rate is the Group loan interest and The residual site value of a development is calculated as the derivative costs per annum at the period end, divided by total estimated net development value, less development profit, all Group debt in issue at the period end.
development construction costs, finance costs assumed at a notional rate of a project to completion and notional site acquisition Weighted average unexpired lease term is the average lease term costs.
The residual is determined to be the current site value.
remaining to first break, or expiry, across the portfolio weighted by contracted rental income including rent-frees.
The calculation Topping out is a traditional construction ceremony to mark the excludes residential leases and properties allocated as occasion when the structure of the building reaches the highest point.
Total property return is calculated as the change in capital value, Yield compression occurs when the net equivalent yield of a property less any capital expenditure incurred, plus net income, expressed decreases, measured in basis points.
as a percentage of capital employed over the period, as calculated by IPD.
Total property returns are calculated monthly and indexed Yield on cost is the estimated annual rent of the completed to provide a return over the relevant period.
development divided by the total cost of development including site value and notional finance costs to the point of assumed Total return total accounting return is the growth in EPRA NAV rent commencement, expressed as a percentage return.
plus dividends paid, and this can be expressed as a percentage of EPRA NAV per share at the beginning of the period.
Yield shift is a movement usually expressed in bps in the yield of a property asset, or like-for-like portfolio, over a given period.
Total Shareholder Return is the growth in value of a shareholding Yield compression is a commonly-used term for a reduction in yields.
over a specified period, assuming dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of stock.
Total tax contribution is a more comprehensive view of tax contributions than the accountancy-defined tax figure quoted in most financial statements.
It comprises taxes and levies paid directly, as well as taxes collected from others which we administered.
Turnover rents is where all or a portion of the rent is linked to the sales or turnover of the occupier.
Under rented is the term used to describe when the contracted rent is below the estimated rental value ERV, implying a positive reversion.
Underlying earnings per share EPS consists of underlying profit after tax divided by the diluted weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Underlying profit before tax is the pre-tax EPRA earnings measure with additional Company adjustments.
Adjustments include mark-to-market adjustments on, or profits on disposal of, held for trading assets, mark-to-market adjustments on the convertible bond and issue costs of the convertible bond.
196 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Design and production Forward-looking statements Addison Group This Report contains certain forward-looking statements.
net reflect current views on, among other things, our markets, activities, projections, objectives and prospects.
Such forward-looking statements Board photography Barry Willis can sometimes, but not always, be identified by their reference to a date or Print CPI Colour point in the future or the use of forward-looking terminology, including terms such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, forecasts, Printed on Amadeus 50:50 Silk, intends, due, plans, projects, goal, outlook, schedule target, aim, a recycled paper containing 50% may, likely to, will, would, could, should or similar expressions or in recycled waste and 50% virgin fibre.
It is manufactured at a paper mill each case their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
By certified with ISO 14001 environmental their nature, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks, assumptions management standard.
The paper and uncertainties because they relate to future events and depend on is Forest Stewardship Council FSC circumstances which may or may not occur and may be beyond our ability certified.
The pulp used in this product to control or predict.
Forward-looking statements should be regarded with is bleached using Elemental chorine Free process ECF.
caution as actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such statements.
Printed by CPI Colour, an ISO 14001, FSC and CarbonNeutral printing company.
Important factors that could cause actual results, performance or achievements of British Land to differ materially from any outcomes or results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements include, among other things: a general business and political, social and economic conditions globally, b industry and market trends including demand in the property investment market and property price volatility, c competition, d the behaviour of other market participants, e changes in government and other regulation, including in relation to the environment, health and safety and taxation in particular, in respect of British Lands status as a Real Estate Investment Trust, f inflation and consumer confidence, g labour relations and work stoppages, h natural disasters and adverse weather conditions, i terrorism and acts of war, j British Lands overall business strategy, risk appetite and investment choices in its portfolio management, k legal or other proceedings against or affecting British Land, l reliable and secure IT infrastructure, m changes in occupier demand and tenant default, n changes in financial and equity markets including interest and exchange rate fluctuations, o changes in accounting practices and the interpretation of accounting standards and p the availability and cost of finance.
The Companys principal risks are described in greater detail in the section of this Report headed Managing risk in delivering our strategy.
Forward-looking statements in this Report, or the British Land website or made subsequently, which are attributable to British Land or persons acting on its behalf should therefore be construed in light of all such factors.
Information contained in this Report relating to British Land or its share price or the yield on its shares are not guarantees of, and should not be relied upon as an indicator of, future performance.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of British Land speak only as of the date they are made.
Such forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above and no representation, assurance, guarantee or warranty is given in relation to them whether by British Land or any of its associates, directors, officers, employees or advisers, including as to their completeness, accuracy or the basis on which they were prepared.
Other than in accordance with our legal and regulatory obligations including under the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, British Land does not intend or undertake to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect any changes in British Lands expectations with regard thereto or any changes in information, events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
This document shall not, under any circumstances, create any implication that there has been no change in the business or affairs of British Land since the date of this document or that the information contained herein is correct as at any time subsequent to this date.
Head Office and registered office York House 45 Seymour Street London W1H 7LX Telephone 44 0 20 7486 4466 Fax 44 0 20 7935 5552 www.
