N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 03 THE HEART OF N BROWN JD Williams.
Our relaunch in Autumn Winter 2014 was a great success - despite the tough market backdrop - with a double-digit increase in new customer orders and a step-up in brand awareness.
As our largest brand, JD Williams is a key focus for us and in Autumn 2014 it was entirely relaunched.
We ran TV advertisements for the first time, featuring our new brand ambassador Lorraine Kelly.
The relaunch has been very well received by customers and this Spring saw a further step-on in our product offering and brand awareness.
JD Williams is an online department store for the 50 female, and we have exciting plans underway to further improve our offering in the seasons ahead.
04 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 SIMPLY EVERYWHERE The opportunity for the Simply Be brand is significant.
Whilst we made pleasing progress during the year our ambitions are much greater.
To keep Simply Be in the hearts and minds of our customers, we need to use every channel available to us, whether thats online, on TV or in key retail locations.
So where better to fly the flag for Simply Be than Oxford Street in London?
The new store provides a stage to highlight our fashion credentials to both a national and international audience and initial performance has been encouraging.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 05 MAN ABOUT TOWN Jacamo.
Having enjoyed revenue growth of 20% last year, we saw revenue rise again by 11% this year.
The introduction of two new labels to the Jacamo portfolio has helped attract even more customers to the brand.
Both Label J and Black Label have built on the continued success of the Flintoff range.
We are also driving brand awareness here too, with TV advertising used for the first time, showcasing the great range of sizes, styles and brands available.
06 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION the needs of our customers and Last year, we ranked delighting them with every among the top 5 UK purchase.
Were extremely proud clothing retailers for that theyve placed N Brown even higher up the rankings for customer satisfaction.
This year, were Theres no room for complacency number 3. though, because we will always look for ways to serve our Ours is truly a customercustomers better.
The absolute foundation of our business is genuinely understanding N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 07
