No depreciation is charged on these assets.
All software additions relate to internal development.
Amortisation of intangible assets is split equally between cost of sales and administration costs and is disclosed in note 6.
The amortisation periods for intangible assets are: Years Software 5 Customer Database 5 The brand names arising from the acquisition of High and Mighty, Slimma, Figleaves, Diva and Dannimac are deemed to have indefinite lives as there are no foreseeable limits to the periods over which they are expected to generate cash inflows and are subject to annual impairment tests.
As a result of the decision to close the Gray & Osbourn catalogue business the carrying value of the brand has been permanently impaired to a value of nil 2014, 8.0m.
The carrying value of the brand names have been determined from a value in use calculation.
The key assumptions for this calculation are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and the forecast cash flows.
The group prepares cash flow forecasts based on the most recent three year financial budgets approved by management and thereafter extrapolates cash flows in perpetuity with 2.7% growth assumed to reflect that there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which cash flows are expected to be generated.
The rate used to discount the forecast pre-tax cash flows is 7.4% 2014, 7.2%.
The directors consider that the value in use calculation has sufficient headroom above the carrying value of the brand names.
The carrying value in relation to Gray & Osbourn is nil 2014, 8.0m, 7.1m 2014, 7.1m for Figleaves and for High and Mighty is 1.0m 2014, 1.0m.
Whilst the directors do not consider that either brand name is impaired as at the balance sheet date, should there be a downturn in future or forecasted cashflows, then there is a risk of impairment to these brand names.
The discount rates applied by the directors have been reviewed in the year and the directors are satisfied that they are reflective of the capital structure and debt to equity ratio of the group.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 67
