Notes to the Group Accounts 1 General information Amendments to IFRS 11 May 2014 : Accounting period Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Throughout the accounts, the directors Joint Operations.
N Brown Group plc is a company report and financial review, reference to incorporated in the United Kingdom under IFRS 14: Regulatory Deferral Accounts.
2015 means at 28 February 2015 or the the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the 52 weeks then ended: reference to 2014 The directors do not expect that the adoption registered office is listed at the end of the means at 1 March 2014 or the 52 weeks of the standards listed above will have a report.
The nature of the groups operations then ended unless otherwise stated.
material impact on the financial statements and its principal activities are set out on page of the group in future periods, except as Basis of consolidation 17 of the directors report.
follows: The consolidated financial statements These financial statements are presented in IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement incorporate the financial statements pounds sterling because that is the currency and disclosures of Financial Instruments.
of the company and entities controlled of the primary economic environment by the company its subsidiaries made Discontinued operations in which the group operates.
Foreign up to the Saturday that falls closest to operations are included in accordance with Discontinued operations are those which 28 February each year.
The Employee the policies set out in note 2. management identify separately and Share Ownership Trust is also made up where notice has been given that they are The group s financial statements for to a date coterminous with the financial to be discontinued.
As a result of notice the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2015 period of the parent company.
being given regarding the closure of Gray have been prepared in accordance with The results of subsidiaries acquired or & Osbourn as detailed in note 5, the prior International Financial Reporting Standards disposed of during the period are included year income statement has been restated IFRS as adopted for use in the EU.
in the consolidated income statement to exclude the results of Gray & Osbourn The accounting policies have been applied from the effective date of acquisition or under continuing activities.
consistently in the current and prior periods, up to the effective date of disposal, as 2 Accounting policies other than that as set out below.
Control is achieved where the company has the power to govern Adoption of new and revised Standards the financial and operating policies of an Adoption of International Financial No standards have been adopted that affect investee entity so as to obtain benefits from Reporting and Accounting Standards the reported results or financial position.
Where necessary, adjustments IFRS are made to the financial statements of At the date of authorisation of these financial The group has adopted Standards and subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies statements, the following Standards and Interpretations issued by the International used into line with those used by the group.
Interpretations which have not been applied Accounting Standards Board IASB and in these financial statements were in issue All intra-group transactions, balances, the International Financial Reporting but not yet effective and in some cases had income and expenses are eliminated Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the not yet been adopted by the EU : on consolidation.
IASB that are relevant to its operations.
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and Business combinations Individual standards and interpretations IAS 28 Dec 2015 : Investment Entities: have to be adopted by the European The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted Applying the Consolidation Exception.
Commission EC and the process leads for using the purchase method.
The cost of Amendments to IAS 1 Dec 2015 : to a delay between the issue and adoption the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of new standards and interpretations Disclosure Initiative.
of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of and in some cases amendments by the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2012-2014 EC.
Where the group has applied a new and equity instruments issued by the group Cycle Sept 2014 : Annual Improvements standard or interpretation in advance of in exchange for control of the acquiree.
EC adoption this will be noted below in acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sept the relevant policy statement.
contingent liabilities that meet the conditions 2014 : Sale or Contribution of Assets for recognition under IFRS 10 are recognised Basis of accounting between an Investor and its Associate or at their fair value at the acquisition date.
The financial statements have been Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred.
prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Amendments to IAS 27 Aug 2014 : Equity Goodwill The financial statements have also Method in Separate Financial Statements.
been prepared in accordance with Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised IFRS 9: Financial Instruments.
IFRSs adopted by the European Union as an asset on the date control is acquired and therefore comply with Article 4 of and initially measured at cost, being Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Jun the EU IAS Regulation.
the excess of the cost of the business combination over the groups interest The financial statements have been IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts in the net fair value of the identifiable prepared on the historical cost basis, with Customers.
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities except for the revaluation of certain Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 May recognised.
If, after reassessment, the financial instruments.
The principal 2014 : Clarification of Acceptable Methods groups interest in the net fair value of the accounting policies adopted are set out of Depreciation and Amortisation.
acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities as follows.
58 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
