STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Report, the Annual Report on remuneration and the financial of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company a companys position and performance, business model law the Directors must not approve the financial statements andstrategy.
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the on pages 80 and 81 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true select suitable accounting policies and then apply and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and them consistently: profit of the Group: and make judgements and accounting estimates that are the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the reasonable and prudent: development and performance of the business and the state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European position of the Group, together with a description of the Union have been followed, subject to any material departures principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will On behalf of the board.
JOHN D. BURNS, The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any DAMIAN M. A. WISNIEWSKI, time the financial position of the Company and the Group and FINANCE DIRECTOR enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the 25 FEBRUARY 2016 Annual Report on remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 83 White Collar Factory EC1 84 Governance
