LIST OF DEFINITIONS UNAUDITED Average topped-up rent EPRA net initial yield NIY Annualised rents generated by the portfolio plus rent Annualised rental income based on the cash rents passing contracted from expiry of rent free periods and uplifts agreed at at the balance sheet date, less non-recoverable property the balance sheet date.
operating expenses, divided by the market value of the EPRA property portfolio, increased by estimated Capital return purchasers costs.
The annual valuation movement arising on the Groups portfolio EPRA topped up net initial yield expressed as a percentage return on the valuation at the This measure incorporates an adjustment to the EPRA NIY beginning of the year adjusted for acquisitions and capital in respect of the expiration of rent free periods or other expenditure.
unexpired lease incentives such as discounted rent periods Diluted figures and stepped rents.
Reported results adjusted to include the effects of potential EPRA vacancy rate dilutive shares issuable under the Groups share option Estimated rental value ERV of immediately available space schemes and the convertible bonds.
divided by the ERV of the EPRA portfolio.
EPRA like-for-like rental income growth Earnings earnings per share EPS The growth in rental income on properties owned throughout Earnings represent the profit or loss for the year attributable to the current and previous year under review.
This growth equity shareholders and are divided by the weighted average rate includes revenue recognition and lease accounting number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year to adjustments but excludes properties held for development arrive at earnings per share.
in either year and properties acquired or disposed of in Estimated rental value ERV either year.
This is the external valuers opinion as to the open market rent Fair value movement which, on the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of a property.
asset or liability to its market value.
European Public Real Estate Association EPRA Ground rent A not-for-profit association with a membership of Europes The rent payable by the Group for its leasehold properties.
leading property companies, investors and consultants which Under IFRS, these leases are treated as finance leases and the strives to establish best practices in accounting, reporting and cost allocated between interest payable and property outgoings.
corporate governance and to provide high-quality information to investors.
EPRA published its latest Best Practices Headroom Recommendations in December 2014 www.
com media This is the amount left to draw under the Groups loan facilities EPRA Best Practices Recommendations BPR - i. e. the total loan facilities less amounts already drawn.
This includes guidelines for Interest rate swap the calculation of the following performance measures which A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange an the Group has adopted.
interest rate obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
EPRA earnings per share These are generally used by the Group to convert oating rate Earnings from operational activities.
EPRA net asset value per share Investment Property Databank Limited IPD NAV adjusted to include trading properties and other IPD is a company that produces independent benchmarks of investment interests at fair value and to exclude certain items property returns.
The Group measures its performance against not expected to crystallise in a long-term investment property both the Central London Ofces Index and the UK All Property business model.
EPRA triple net asset value per share EPRA NAV adjusted to include the fair values of: i financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs instruments, ii debt and iii deferred taxes on revaluations, Activities and behaviours, aligned to both business objectives where applicable.
and individual goals, against which the performance of the EPRA cost ratio including direct vacancy costs Group is annually assessed.
Performance measured against EPRA costs as a percentage of gross rental income less them is referenced in the Annual Report.
ground rent including share of joint venture gross rental Lease incentives income less ground rent.
EPRA costs include administrative Any incentive offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
expenses, other property costs, net service charge costs Typically the incentive will be an initial rent free or half rent and the share of joint ventures overheads and operating period, stepped rents, or a cash contribution to t-out or expenses net of any service charge costs, adjusted for similar costs.
service charge costs recovered through rents and management fees.
Loan-to-value ratio LTV Drawn debt net of cash divided by the fair value of the property EPRA cost ratio excluding direct vacancy costs portfolio.
Drawn debt is equal to drawn facilities less cash and Calculated as above, but with an adjustment to exclude the unamortised equity element of the convertible bonds.
176 Financial statements Mark-to-market Reversion The difference between the book value of an asset or liability The reversion is the amount by which ERV is higher than the and its market value.
rent roll of a property or portfolio.
The reversion is derived from contractual rental increases, rent reviews, lease renewals and NAV gearing the letting of space that is vacant and available to occupy or Net debt divided by net assets.
Net assets per share or net asset value NAV Scrip dividend Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary Derwent London offers its shareholders the opportunity to shares in issue at the balance sheet date.
receive dividends in the form of shares instead of cash.
Net debt This is known as a scrip dividend.
Borrowings plus bank overdraft less cash and cash equivalents.
Total property return TPR Net interest cover ratio The annual capital appreciation, net of capital expenditure, Net property income, excluding all non-core items divided by plus the net annual rental income received, expressed as interest payable on borrowings and non-utilisation fees.
a percentage of capital employed property value at the beginning of the year plus capital expenditure.
Property income distribution PID Dividends from profits of the Groups tax-exempt property Total return rental business under the REIT regulations.
The movement in EPRA adjusted net asset value per share on a diluted basis between the beginning and the end of each Non-PID financial year plus the dividend per share paid during the year Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable residual business.
expressed as a percentage of the EPRA net asset value per Real Estate Investment Trust REIT share on a diluted basis at the beginning of the year.
The UK Real Estate Investment Trust REIT regime was Total shareholder return TSR launched on 1 January 2007.
On 1 July 2007, Derwent The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the elected to convert to REIT status.
London Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received for The REIT legislation was introduced to provide a structure the year, expressed as a percentage of the share price at the which closely mirrors the tax outcomes of direct ownership in beginning of the year.
property and removes tax inequalities between different real Underlying portfolio estate investors.
It provides a liquid and publically available Properties that have been held for the whole of the year i. e. vehicle which opens the property market to a wide range excluding any acquisitions or disposals made during the year.
Underlying valuation increase A REIT is exempt from corporation tax on qualifying income The valuation increase on the underlying portfolio.
and gains of its property rental business providing various conditions are met.
It remains subject to corporation tax on Yields non-exempt income and gains e. g. interest income, trading Net initial yield activity and development fees.
Annualised rental income based on the cash rents passing at the balance sheet date, less non-recoverable property REITs must distribute at least 90% of the Groups income operating expenses, divided by the market value of the profits from its tax exempt property rental business, by property, increased by estimated purchasers costs.
way of dividend, known as a property income distribution.
Reversionary yield Property income distributions from the tax exempt property The anticipated yield to which the net initial yield will rise rental business will suffer withholding tax at 20% with once the rent reaches the estimated rental values.
withholding tax exemption for certain UK resident companies True equivalent yield and tax exempt bodies.
The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash If the Group distributes profits from the non-tax exempt ows from the portfolio, including current rent, reversions to business, the distribution will be taxed as an ordinary dividend valuers estimated rental value and such items as voids and in the hands of the investors.
expenditures, equates to the valuation having taken into account notional purchasers costs.
Rent is assumed to be Rent reviews received quarterly in advance.
Rent reviews take place at intervals agreed in the lease Yield shift typically every five years and their purpose is usually to A movement in the yield of a property asset, or like-for-like adjust the rent to the current market level at the review date.
Yield compression is a For upwards only rent reviews, the rent will either remain at commonly-used term for a reduction in yields.
the same level or increase if market rents are higher at the review date.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 177 LIST OF DEFINITIONS UNAUDITED CONTINUED Sustainability and corporate responsibility Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM An environmental impact assessment method for nondomestic buildings.
Performance is measured across a series of ratings: Good, Very Good, Excellent and Outstanding.
Carbon emissions Scopes 1, 2 and 3 Scope 1 direct emissions: Scope 2 indirect emissions: and Scope 3 other indirect emissions.
CDP The CDP is an organisation which works with shareholders and listed companies to facilitate the disclosure and reporting of climate change data and information.
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA The government department responsible for environmental protection, food production and standards, agriculture, sheries and rural communities in the United Kingdom.
Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB The Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark is an initiative set up to assess the environmental and social performance of public and private real estate investments and allow investors to understand their performance.
Global Reporting Initiative GRI The GRI is an internationally recognised sustainability reporting framework which provides metrics and methods for measuring and reporting sustainability related impacts and performance.
Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDORs The regulations place a legal duty on employers to report work-related deaths, major injuries or over-three-day injuries, work-related diseases and dangerous occurrences near miss accidents to the Health and Safety Executive.
Transmission and distribution T&D The emissions associated with the transmission and distribution losses in the grid from the transportation of electricity from its generation source.
Well to tank WTT The emissions associated with extracting, rening and transporting raw fuel to the vehicle, asset or process under scrutiny.
178 Financial statements Designed and produced by MerchantCantos www.
com Printed by Empress Litho Limited White Collar Factory EC1 CGI Derwent London plc Registered office: 25 Savile Row London W1S 2ER T 44 0 20 7659 3000 www.
