Notes forming part of the Group financial statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation Great Portland Estates plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of the registered ofce is given on page 168.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of properties, other investment, financial instruments and pension liability.
The financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis as explained in the Report of the Directors on page 118.
Key accounting judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that may affect the financial statements.
The directors believe that the judgements made in the preparation of the financial statements are reasonable.
However, actual outcomes may differ from those anticipated.
Critical accounting judgements include the adoption of the external portfolio valuation without adjustment, the recognition of purchases and disposal of assets and the adoption of a single reporting segment.
The accounting policies for these areas of judgement are set out in the accounting policies below.
New accounting standards During the year ended 31 March 2015, the following accounting standards and guidance were adopted by the Group: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IAS 27 revised May 2011 Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 revised May 2011 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entities Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting The adoption of the Standards and Interpretations has not signicantly impacted these financial statements with the exception of IFRS 12 resulting in more extensive disclosure in the consolidated financial statements.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will impact both the measurement and disclosure of financial instruments IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRIC 21 Levies Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 19 Dened benefit Plans: Employee Contributions Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements The directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards and Interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group, except as set out above.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 March 2015.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control is assumed when the Group directs the financial and operating policies of an entity to benefit from its activities.
128 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Financial statements 1 Accounting policies continued Rental income This comprises rental income and premiums on lease surrenders on investment properties for the year, exclusive of service charges receivable.
Tenant leases The directors have considered the potential transfer of risks and rewards of ownership in accordance with IAS 17 Leases for all properties leased to tenants and in their judgement have determined that all such leases are operating leases.
Lease incentives Lease incentives including rent-free periods and payments to tenants, are allocated to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term or on another systematic basis, if applicable.
The value of resulting accrued rental income is included within the respective property.
Other property expenses Irrecoverable running costs directly attributable to specic properties within the Groups portfolio are charged to the income statement as other property expenses.
Costs incurred in the improvement of the portfolio which, in the opinion of the directors, are not of a capital nature are written off to the income statement as incurred.
Administration expenses Costs not directly attributable to individual properties are treated as administration expenses.
Share-based payment The cost of granting share-based payments to employees and directors is recognised within administration expenses in the income statement.
The Group has used the Stochastic model to value the grants which is dependent upon factors including the share price, expected volatility and vesting period and the resulting fair value is amortised through the income statement over the vesting period.
The charge is reversed if it is likely that any non-market based criteria will not be met.
Investment property Investment properties and investment properties under development are professionally valued on a fair value basis by qualied external valuers and the directors must ensure that they are satisfied that the valuation of the Groups properties is appropriate for inclusion in the accounts without adjustment.
The valuations of investment properties and investment properties under development have been prepared in accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards January 2014 the Red Book.
For investment property, this approach involves applying market-derived capitalisation yields to current and market-derived future income streams with appropriate adjustments for income voids arising from vacancies or rent-free periods.
These capitalisation yields and future income streams are derived from comparable property and leasing transactions and are considered to be the key inputs in the valuation.
Other factors that are taken into account in the valuations include the tenure of the property, tenancy details, planning, building and environmental factors that might affect the property.
In the case of investment property under development, the approach applied is the residual method of valuation, which is the investment method of valuation as described above with a deduction for the costs necessary to complete the development, together with an allowance for the remaining risk.
Sales and purchases of investment properties are recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership transfer.
Trading property Trading property is being developed for sale or being held for sale after development is complete, and is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes direct expenditure and capitalised interest.
Cost of sales, including costs associated with off-plan residential sales, are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
Other investments Other investments are carried at fair value through profit and loss, with the loan element carried at cost less any recognised impairment loss.
Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 129 Notes forming part of the Group financial statements 1 Accounting policies continued Depreciation No depreciation is provided in respect of freehold investment properties and leasehold investment properties.
Depreciation is provided on plant and equipment, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date of each asset evenly over its expected useful life, as follows: Fixtures and ttings over three to five years.
Leasehold improvements over the term of the lease.
Joint ventures Joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method where, in the directors judgement, the Group has joint control of the entity.
The Groups level of control in its joint ventures is driven both by the individual agreements which set out how control is shared by the partners and how that control is exercised in practice.
The Group balance sheet contains the Groups share of the net assets of its joint ventures.
Balances with partners owed to or from the Group by joint ventures are included within investments.
The Groups share of joint venture profits and losses are included in the Group income statement in a single line.
All of the Groups joint ventures adopt the accounting policies of the Group for inclusion in the Group financial statements.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between the tax base of an asset or liability and its carrying amount in the balance sheet.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deferred tax asset can be utilised.
Pension benets The Group contributes to a dened benefit pension plan which is funded with assets held separately from those of the Group.
The full value of the net assets or liabilities of the pension fund is brought on to the balance sheet at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are taken to reserves: all other movements are taken to the income statement.
Capitalisation of interest Interest associated with direct expenditure on investment and trading properties under development is capitalised.
Direct expenditure includes the purchase cost of a site if it has been purchased with the specic intention to redevelop, but does not include the original book cost of a site where no intention existed.
Interest is capitalised from the start of the development work until the date of practical completion.
The rate used is the Groups weighted average cost of borrowings or, if appropriate, the rate on specic associated borrowings.
Financial instruments i Derivatives The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign currency uctuations and interest rate risks.
The Groups derivatives are measured at fair value in the balance sheet.
To the extent that a derivative is a designated hedge and provides an effective cash ow hedge against the Groups underlying exposure, the movements in the fair value of the hedge are taken to equity.
To the extent that the derivative is not a designated hedge or does not effectively hedge the underlying exposure, the movement in the fair value of the hedge is taken to the income statement.
ii Borrowings The Groups borrowings in the form of its debentures, private placement notes and bank loans are recognised initially at fair value, after taking account of any discount or premium on issue and attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently, borrowings are held at amortised cost, with any discounts, premiums and attributable costs charged to the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
iii Convertible bond The Groups convertible bond can be settled in shares, cash or a combination of both at the Groups discretion.
The bonds have been designated at fair value through profit and loss upon initial recognition, with any gains or losses arising subsequently due to re-measurement being recognised in the income statement.
iv Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into a known amount of cash and are subject to insignicant risk of changes in value.
v Trade receivables and payables Trade receivables and payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured atamortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
130 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015
