Shareholders information Shareholder enquiries Payment of dividends All enquiries relating to holdings of shares, bonds or debentures If you would like your dividends interest paid directly into inGreat Portland Estates, including notication of change of yourbankor building society account, you should write to address, queries regarding dividend interest payments or the loss CapitaRegistrars, including details of your nominated account.
of a certicate, should be addressed to the Companys registrars: Although this will enable your dividend interest to be paid directlyinto your account, your tax voucher will still be sent Capita Registrars toyourregistered address.
The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Tax consequences of REIT status Beckenham As a REIT, dividend payments must be split between Kent PIDsandnon-PIDs.
Information in respect of the tax BR3 4TU consequences for shareholders of receiving dividends Tel: 0871 664 0300 canbefound on the Companys website at Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
co. uk investors  reits Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras: linesareopen 8.30am5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Share dealing service If you are calling from overseas please dial 44 20 8639 3399 An online and telephone dealing service is available for UK shareholders through Capita Deal.
For further information Unsolicited telephone calls onthisservice, or to buy and sell shares, please contact: Boiler room scams Online dealing www.
com Over the last year, some of our shareholders have received Telephone dealing 0871 664 0364 unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters from organisations or persons claiming or Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras: implying that they have some connection with the Company.
lines are open 8.00am4.30pm Monday to Friday.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target Website UKshareholders offering to sell them shares that often turn out tobeworthless or non-existent, or an inated price for shares The Company has a corporate website, which holds, amongst they own.
These operations are commonly known as boiler otherinformation, a copy of our latest annual report and rooms.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any offers accounts, alist ofproperties held by the Group and copies ofunsolicited advice, discounted shares, premium prices for  released over the last 12 months.
sharesthey own orfreereports into the Company.
If you receive Thesitecanbefound at www.
co. uk any unsolicited investment advice: Company Secretary ensure you get the correct name of the person andrm: check that the rm is on the Financial Conduct Authority FCA Desna Martin, BCom FCA Aust ACIS Register to ensure they are authorised at Registered ofce www.
do 33 Cavendish Square use the details on the FCA Register to contact the rm: London W1G 0PW Tel: 020 7647 3000 call theFCA Consumer Helpline 0800 111 6768 if there are Fax: 020 7016 5500 nocontact details in the Register or you are told they are out ofdate:and Registered number: 596137 if the calls persist, hang up.
If you use an unauthorised rm to buy or sell shares, you will nothave access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
168 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015
