Glossary Building Research Establishment Environmental Non-PIDs Assessment Methodology BREEAM Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable residual business.
Building Research Establishment method of assessing, rating and PMI certifying the sustainability of buildings.
Core West End Portfolio Internal Rate of Return IRR Areas of London with W1 and SW1 postcodes.
The rate of return that if used as a discount rate and applied tothe Earnings Per Share EPS projected cash ows from the portfolio would result inanetpresent profit after tax divided by the weighted average number ofordinary value of zero.
Property Income Distributions PIDs EPRA adjustments Dividends from profits of the Groups tax-exempt property Standard calculation methods for adjusted EPS and NAV as rental business.
setout by the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA REIT intheir BestPractice and Policy Recommendations.
UK Real Estate Investment Trust.
Estimated Rental Value ERV Rent roll The market rental value of lettable space as estimated The annual contracted rental income.
bytheCompanys valuers at each balance sheet date.
Reversionary or under-rented Fair value Investment property The percentage by which ERV exceeds rents passing, The amount as estimated by the Companys valuers for which togetherwith the estimated rental value of vacant space.
aproperty should exchange on the date of valuation between awilling buyer and a willing seller in an arms-length transaction Reversionary yield after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted The anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once therent knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
withmarket practice, values are stated net of purchasers costs.
Total Property Return TPR IPD Capital growth in the portfolio plus net rental income derived The Investment Property Databank Limited IPD is a company that fromholding these properties plus profit on sale of disposals produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
expressed as a percentage return on the periods opening value.
IPD central London Total Shareholder Return TSR An index, compiled by IPD, of the central and inner London The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London properties in their March annual valued universes.
Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received for the period expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning Like-for-like portfolio of the period.
Properties that have been held for the whole of the period of account.
Triple net asset value NNNAV NAV adjusted to include the fair value of the Groups financial Loan To Value LTV liabilities on a diluted basis.
Total bank loans, private placement notes, convertible bonds at nominal value and debenture stock, net ofcash including our True equivalent yield share of jointventures balances, expressed asapercentage of The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash ows the market value ofthe property portfolio including our share of from an investment property, including current rent, reversions joint ventures.
tocurrent market rent and such items as voids and expenditures, equates to the market value having taken into account notional Net assets per share or Net Asset Value NAV purchasers costs.
Assumes rent is received quarterly in advance.
Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary shares at the balance sheet date.
Vacancy rate The element of a property which is unoccupied but available Net gearing forletting, expressed as the ERV of the vacant space divided Total Group borrowings including the convertible bonds at bytheERV of the total portfolio.
nominal value less short-term deposits and cash as apercentage of equity shareholders funds, calculated in accordance with our Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term WAULT bank covenants.
The Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term expressed in years.
Net initial yield Annual net rents on investment properties as a percentage of the investment property valuation having added notional purchasers costs.
166 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015
