Notes forming part of the Group financial statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation Great Portland Estates plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of the registered ofce is given on page 168.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of properties, other investment, financial instruments and pension liability.
The financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis as explained in the Report of the Directors on page 118.
Key accounting judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that may affect the financial statements.
The directors believe that the judgements made in the preparation of the financial statements are reasonable.
However, actual outcomes may differ from those anticipated.
Critical accounting judgements include the adoption of the external portfolio valuation without adjustment, the recognition of purchases and disposal of assets and the adoption of a single reporting segment.
The accounting policies for these areas of judgement are set out in the accounting policies below.
New accounting standards During the year ended 31 March 2015, the following accounting standards and guidance were adopted by the Group: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IAS 27 revised May 2011 Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 revised May 2011 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entities Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting The adoption of the Standards and Interpretations has not signicantly impacted these financial statements with the exception of IFRS 12 resulting in more extensive disclosure in the consolidated financial statements.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will impact both the measurement and disclosure of financial instruments IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRIC 21 Levies Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 19 Dened benefit Plans: Employee Contributions Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements The directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards and Interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group, except as set out above.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 March 2015.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control is assumed when the Group directs the financial and operating policies of an entity to benefit from its activities.
128 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015
