Financial statements 1 Accounting policies continued Head leases The present value of future ground rents is added to the carrying value of a leasehold investment property and to long-term liabilities.
On payment of a ground rent, virtually all of the cost is charged to the income statement, principally as interest payable, and the balance reduces the liability: an equal reduction to the assets valuation is charged to the income statement.
Segmental analysis All of the Groups revenue is generated from investment properties located in central London.
The properties are managed as a single portfolio by an asset management team whose responsibilities are not segregated by location or type, but are managed on an asset-byasset basis.
The majority of the Groups assets are mixed use, therefore the ofce, retail and any residential space is managed together.
Within the property portfolio, the Group has a number of properties under development.
The directors view the Groups development activities as an integral part of the life cycle of each of its assets rather than a separate business or division.
The nature of developing property means that whilst a property is under development it generates no revenue and has no operating results.
Once a development has completed, it returns to the investment property portfolio, or if it is a trading property, it is sold.
The directors have considered the nature of the business, how the business is managed and how they review performance and, in their judgement, the Group has only one reportable segment.
The components of the valuation, as provided by CBRE, are set out in note 10.
Development management agreements The Group sold a development property prior to its completion and has a development management agreement with the buyer to construct the remainder of the building on their behalf.
Where the outcome of this development management agreement can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured as the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed bear to the estimated total contract costs.
Variations in work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the counterparty.
Where the outcome of the development management agreement cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of costs incurred where it is probable they will be recoverable.
Costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total costs will exceed total revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
2 Total revenue 2015 2014 m m Gross rental income 58.6 60.5 Spreading of tenant lease incentives 7.6 9.2 Service charge income 7.8 8.6 Joint venture fee income 4.2 6.9 Development management revenue 10.6 88.8 85.2 3 Net rental income 2015 2014 m m Gross rental income 58.6 60.5 Spreading of tenant lease incentives 7.6 9.2 Ground rents 0.2 66.0 69.7 4 Property expenses 2015 2014 m m Service charge income 7.8 8.6 Service charge expenses 9.7 10.6 Other property expenses 5.8 5.7 7.7 7.7 Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 131
