Notes to the financial statements 1.
General information Hansteen Holdings PLC is a company which was incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales on 27 October 2005.
The Company is required to comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is 1st Floor, Pegasus House, 37-43 Sackville Street, London W1S 3DL.
The Groups principal activity is investing in mainly industrial properties in Continental Europe and the United Kingdom.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
Adoption of new and revised standards The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements, but may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements: Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2010-2012 Annual Improvements to IFRSs Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2011-2013 Annual Improvements to IFRSs Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been adopted early by the Group: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between and Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2012-2014 Annual Improvements to IFRSs The Directors are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of the above standards and interpretations in future periods on the financial statements of the Group.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, as detailed in the Directors Report on pages 50 to 53 and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of investment properties and certain financial instruments.
Certain comparative amounts have been adjusted where relevant to ensure comparability with the current years presentation.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results may differ from those estimates.
66 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the noncontrolling interest in excess of the non-controlling interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interest of the Group except to the extent that the non-controlling has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal.
Adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
The acquirees identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the Groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree, if any, over the net amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period, or additional assets and liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Non-controlling interests in the acquiree are measured at the non-controlling shareholders proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost.
If the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
This is included in the Groups share of results of associates.
Goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combination.
Cashgenerating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67 Notes to the financial statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale, except investment properties, are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Investment properties classified as held for sale are carried at fair value.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Rental income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Where a lease incentive is granted, which does not enhance the value of the property, or a rent-free period is granted, the effective cost is amortised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Property management fees are recognised in the period to which they relate.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Revenue from the sale of trading and investment properties is recognised when the significant risks and returns have been transferred to the buyer.
This generally coincides with the transfer of the legal title or the passing of possession to the buyer.
The profit on disposal of trading and investment properties is determined as the difference between the consideration received and the carrying amount of the asset at the commencement of the accounting period plus any additions in the period.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Where a property is held under a head lease it is initially recognised as an asset as the sum of the premium paid on acquisition and the present value of minimum ground rent payments.
The corresponding rent liability to the head leaseholder is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Where only the buildings element of a property lease is classified as a finance lease, the ground rent payments for the land element are shown within operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
When accounting for a lease of land and buildings, the Group considers the land and buildings elements separately.
The Group does not classify those land elements that are held under operating leases as investment property.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the period in which they arise.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of nonmonetary items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period in which they arise except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups foreign currency translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
68 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Share-based payments The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments to employees is determined at the date of grant and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Companys estimate of options that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a binomial model or the Companys share price less the discounted value of estimated future dividends, as appropriate.
The expected life used in the binomial model has been adjusted based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current and deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after the share of results of associates and profit on sale of subsidiaries, but before changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments, finance income, finance costs and foreign exchange movements relating to intercompany funding.
Property, plant and equipment This comprises computers, fixtures and fittings and office equipment, which are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of computers, fixtures and fittings and office equipment, less residual value, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: Computer equipment three years Fixtures and fittings five years Office equipment three years Investment properties Investment properties, which comprises freehold and leasehold property held to earn rentals and or for capital appreciation, are treated as acquired when the Group assumes the significant risks and rewards of ownership.
Acquisitions of investment properties including related transaction costs and subsequent additions of a capital nature are initially recognised in the accounts at cost.
At each reporting date the investment properties are revalued to their fair values based on a professional valuation at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment property are included in profit or loss for the period in which they arise.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provisions for impairment.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69 Notes to the financial statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
Trading properties Trading properties are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value and are treated as acquired when the Group assumes the significant risks and rewards of ownership.
Cost includes development costs specifically attributable to properties in the course of development.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss, which are initially measured at fair value.
Financial assets are classified into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, held-to-maturity investments, available-for-sale AFS financial assets and loans and receivables The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Financial assets at FVTPL Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL where the financial asset is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
A financial asset is classified as held for trading if: it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near future: or it is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking: or it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
70 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the Group is provided internally on that basis: or it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives that can be designated as FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
AFS financial assets Non-derivative financial assets that are not classified as loans and receivables or held-to-maturity investments, are not held for trading and are not designated as FVTPL on initial recognition are classified as AFS.
AFS financial assets are measured at fair value with fair value gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income.
On sale or impairment of the asset, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment.
Impairment losses on AFS financial assets are recognised in profit or loss.
Dividends on an AFS equity instrument are recognised in profit or loss when the entitys right to receive payment is established.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
Objective evidence of impairment could include: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
Where an AFS financial asset is considered to be impaired, cumulative gains previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit and loss in the period.
In the case of AFS equity instruments, if, in a subsequent period the amount of impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is not reversed through profit and loss.
Any increase in fair value subsequent to an impairment loss is recognised directly in equity.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71 Notes to the financial statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire: or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial guarantee contract liabilities Financial guarantee contract liabilities are measured initially at their fair values and are subsequently measured at the higher of: the amount of the obligation under the contract, as determined in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets: and the amount initially recognised less, where appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with the revenue recognition policies set out above.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL where the financial liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
A financial liability is classified as held for trading if: it has been incurred principally for the purpose of disposal in the near future: or it is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking: or it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the Group is provided internally on that basis: or it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives that can be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability.
The convertible bond is designated as fair value through profit or loss and is presented on the balance sheet at fair value with all gains and losses, including the write off of issuance costs, recognised in the income statement within net financing costs.
The interest charge in respect of the coupon rate on the bonds has been recognised within net financing costs on an accruals basis.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
72 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
