Strategic report Governance Financial statements fide-recognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk, including foreign exchange forward contracts and options and interest rate swaps and caps.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date used in preparing these accounts are: Investment property valuations In determining the fair value of investment properties there is a degree of uncertainty and judgement involved.
The valuations are based on a number of assumptions, the significant ones of which are the appropriate discount rates, estimates of future rental income and capital expenditure.
The Group uses external professional valuers to provide independent valuations of the investment properties.
Accounting for complex transactions The Group frequently enters into transactions for the purchase and sale of investment property, associates and other financial assets.
These transactions tend to be one-off and can be complex.
Accounting for the transactions requires judgements such as in calculating any gain or loss, and deciding upon the presentation in the financial statements.
Transactions are disclosed and, where their impact is significant, then they are presented separately from the ongoing financial results of the Group.
Deferred tax Determining the amount of tax losses to be recognised as deferred tax assets requires management to estimate the level and probability of future taxable profits that those losses can be offset against, in each relevant entity and jurisdiction.
Calculation of share-based payments In calculating the expense in relation to share-based payments, including the Performance Share Plan and Founder Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Company is required to estimate the probability of share and options awards vesting and the fair value of a share and option at the grant date and the balance sheet date.
These estimates involve making a variety of assumptions concerning rents and related costs, yields, administrative costs, interest rates, exchange rates, dividend rates and the rate and level of property acquisitions.
Accounting for investments in associates Determining the appropriateness of accounting for investments in associates requires management to assess the control the Group has over an investee, specifically, the power the Group has over the investee, exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of investor returns.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73
