Notes to the financial statements 1.
General information Hansteen Holdings PLC is a company which was incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales on 27 October 2005.
The Company is required to comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is 1st Floor, Pegasus House, 37-43 Sackville Street, London W1S 3DL.
The Groups principal activity is investing in mainly industrial properties in Continental Europe and the United Kingdom.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
Adoption of new and revised standards The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements, but may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements: Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2010-2012 Annual Improvements to IFRSs Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2011-2013 Annual Improvements to IFRSs Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been adopted early by the Group: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between and Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2012-2014 Annual Improvements to IFRSs The Directors are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of the above standards and interpretations in future periods on the financial statements of the Group.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, as detailed in the Directors Report on pages 50 to 53 and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of investment properties and certain financial instruments.
Certain comparative amounts have been adjusted where relevant to ensure comparability with the current years presentation.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results may differ from those estimates.
66 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
