co. uk Other information 175 Dividends The Directors of intu properties plc have proposed a final PID SPECIAL NOTE: dividend per ordinary share ISIN GB0006834344 of 9.1 pence UK shareholders 2014: 9.1 pence to bring the total dividend per ordinary share For those who are eligible for exemption from the 20 per for the year to 13.7 pence 2014: 13.7 pence as adjusted by the cent withholding tax and have not previously registered for rights issue bonus factor.
A scrip dividend alternative may exemption, an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC Tax Exemption be offered.
Declaration is available for download from the Investors section of the intu properties plc website intugroup.
co. uk, or The dividend may be partly paid as a Property Income on request to our UK registrars, Capita Asset Services.
Validly Distribution PID and partly paid as a non-PID.
The PID completed forms must be received by Capita Asset Services no element will be subject to deduction of a 20 per cent later than the dividend Record Date, as advised: otherwise the withholding tax unless exemptions apply please refer to the dividend will be paid after deduction of tax.
Any non-PID element will be treated as an ordinary UK company dividend.
For South African South African and other non-UK shareholders shareholders, non-PID cash dividends may be subject to South African shareholders may apply to HMRC after payment deduction of South African Dividends Tax at 15 per cent.
of the dividend for a refund of the difference between the 20 per cent withholding tax and the UK South African double The following are the salient dates for the payment of the taxation treaty rate of 15 per cent.
Other non-UK shareholders proposed final dividend.
may be able to make similar claims for a refund of UK withholding tax deducted.
Refund application forms for all nonTuesday 29 March 2016 UK shareholders are available for download from the Investors Sterling Rand exchange rate struck section of the intu properties plc website intugroup.
co. uk, or on request to our South African registrars, Trifecta, or HMRC.
Wednesday 30 March 2016 UK withholding tax refunds are not claimable from intu Sterling Rand exchange rate and dividend amount in South properties plc, the South African Revenue Service SARS African currency announced or other national authorities, only from the UKs HMRC.
Monday 11 April 2016 Additional information on PIDs can be found at Ordinary shares listed ex-dividend on the Johannesburg intugroup.
co. uk investors  realStock Exchange .
The above does not constitute advice and shareholders should Thursday 14 April 2016 seek their own professional guidance.
intu properties plc does Ordinary shares listed ex-dividend on the London Stock not accept liability for any loss suffered arising from reliance Exchange on the above.
Friday 15 April 2016 SUMMER BUDGET 2015 SPECIAL NOTE: Record date for 2015 final dividend in London UK shareholders should note that the Summer Budget 2015 and Johannesburg announced that the dividend tax credit is to be replaced with a new personal tax-free dividend allowance of 5,000 a year for Thursday 26 May 2016 all UK taxpayers from 6 April 2016. Dividend payment date for shareholders These new rules will only apply to any non-PIDs paid, but there South African shareholders should note that, in accordance with will be no change to the taxation of PIDs paid by intu properties the requirements of Strate, the last day to trade cum-dividend plc.
The Companys dividend communications in May will be will be Friday 8 April 2016 and that no dematerialisation or updated, as required, to reflect the new taxation arrangements.
rematerialisation of shares will be possible from Monday 11 April 2016 to Friday 15 April 2016 inclusive.
No transfers between the UK and South African registers may take place from Thursday 24 March 2016 to Monday 18 April 2016 inclusive.
