176 intu properties plc Annual report 2015 Shareholder information Registered Office Share dealing 40 Broadway, London SW1H 0BT Existing UK shareholders may trade intu properties plc shares Registered in England & Wales no.
3685527 through Capita Share Dealing Services who provide an easy to use, real-time online, telephone and postal dealing service.
Websites Contact details are: intugroup.
com Telephone within UK 0871 664 0364 calls cost 10p per Registrars minute plus network extras: lines are open 8.00 am to 4.30 pm All enquiries concerning shares or shareholdings, including Monday to Friday notification of change of address, queries regarding loss of a Ireland Lo-call 1 890 946 375 share certificate and dividend payments should be addressed to: outside UK 44 20 3367 2686 For shareholders registered in the UK Existing South African shareholders whose shares are held in Capita Asset Services electronic format through Trifectas CSDP may trade intu The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
properties plc shares through Trifectas low cost telephone Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary share dealing service on 0869 222 213 SA calls only.
by provider: lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday Sharegift Telephone 44 0 371 664 0300 Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com Shareholders with a small number of shares, which may be capitashareportal.
com uneconomic to sell on a commission basis, may wish to consider donating them to the charity Sharegift registered charity no.
For shareholders registered in South Africa 1052686.
Further information can be found on Sharegifts From 1 February 2016, website sharegift.
Trifecta Capital Services 31 Beacon Road, Florida North, 1709 Strate Charity Shares South Africa South African shareholders for whom the cost of selling their Postal address: shares would exceed the market value of such shares may wish PO Box 61272 to consider donating them to charity.
An independent non-profit Marshalltown 2107, South Africa organisation called Strate Charity Shares has been established Telephone 27 0 860 222 213 to administer this process.
The South African Revenue Service Email: intu@trifectacapital.
com SARS has advised Strate Charity Shares that the value of any shares donated may be deducted from taxable income, as the Payment of dividends scheme is registered under section 18A of the Income Tax Act.
Shareholders who wish to have their dividends paid directly into For further details, queries and or donations contact the a bank or building society account should complete a mandate Strate Share Care toll free help line on 0800 202 363 or form available from the appropriate registrars.
27 11 373 0038 if you are phoning from outside South Africa or email charityshares@trifecta.
co. za Share price information The latest information on the intu properties plc share price is Electronic communication available on the website intugroup.
The Company supplies information such as the annual report via its website to shareholders who have consented to such Web-based enquiry service for shareholders communication.
Shareholders will be notified by email or Shareholders registered in the UK can go to post when new information is available on the website.
com to obtain details of their shareholdings and dividends.
The shareholders surname, Investor Code Shareholders can at any time revoke a previous instruction found on any correspondence from registrars and postcode in order to receive hard copies of shareholder information.
are required to use this service.
Shareholders may also use UK shareholders may register to receive email alerts by logging this service to amend or change their address and dividend on to the website of the UK Registrars capitashareportal.
and following the instructions given to register an email Shareholders registered in South Africa can go to address.
SA shareholders may register to receive email alerts trifectacapital.
net how-can-we-help-you to obtain details by written instruction to the South African Registrar, Trifecta, of their shareholdings.
Shareholders will need to follow a sent either by email intu@trifectacapital.
com or by facsimile registration process in order to access such information.
Once registered, shareholders are sent a Unfortunately, due to South African legal requirements, Notice of Availability email highlighting that the annual report shareholders may not update records, but will be able to or other information is available for viewing on the website.
view their entire holding of shares globally.
Please note that the Trifecta company code for intu properties plc is ITUZ.
This report contains forward-looking statements regarding the belief or current expectations of intu properties plc, its Directors and other members of its senior management about intu properties plcs businesses, financial performance and results of operations.
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
Rather, they are based on current views and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the control of intu properties plc and are difficult to predict, that may cause actual results, performance or developments to differ materially from any future results, performance or developments expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this report.
Except as required by applicable law, intu properties plc makes no representation or warranty in relation to them and expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements contained herein to reect any change in intu properties plcs expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Any information contained in this report on the price at which shares or other securities in intu properties plc have been bought or sold in the past, or on the yield on such shares or other securities, should not be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
2016 intu properties plc Designed and produced by Printed by Pureprint Group on FSC certied paper.
Pureprint Group is an EMAS certied CarbonNeutral Company and its Environmental Management System is certied to ISO14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil-based.
This document is printed on Claro Bulk, a paper containing 100% virgin bre sourced from well managed, sustainable, FSC certied forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
intu properties plc 40 Broadway, London SW1H 0BT intugroup.
