156 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 GLOSSARY Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted EPS Lease incentives Rental income Earnings per share based on revenue profit after related tax.
Any incentive offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically the incentive Rental income is as reported in the income statement, on an accruals basis, and will be an initial rent-free period, or a cash contribution to fit-out or similar Adjusted net asset value Adjusted NAV per share adjusted for the spreading of lease incentives over the term certain of the lease NAV per share adjusted to remove the effect of the fide-recognition of the 2004 costs.
For accounting purposes the value of the incentive is spread over the in accordance with SIC 15.
It is stated gross, prior to the deduction of ground bond exchange and cumulative fair value movements on interest-rate swaps non-cancellable life of the lease.
rents and without deduction for operational outgoings on car park and and similar instruments.
Adjusted net debt The London Interbank Offered Rate, the interest rate charged by one bank to Rental value change Net debt excluding cumulative fair value movements on interest-rate swaps, another for lending money, often used as a reference rate in bank facilities.
Increase or decrease in the current rental value, as determined by the Groups the adjustment arising from the fide-recognition of the bond exchange and Like-for-like managed properties external valuers, over the reporting period on a like-for-like basis.
amounts payable under finance leases.
It generally includes the net debt of Properties in the like-for-like portfolio other than those in our joint ventures Return on average capital employed subsidiaries and joint ventures on a proportionate basis.
which we do not manage operationally.
Group profit before interest, plus joint venture profit before interest, divided Book value Like-for-like portfolio by the average capital employed defined as shareholders funds plus adjusted The amount at which assets and liabilities are reported in the financial The like-for-like portfolio includes all properties which have been in the net debt.
portfolio since 1 April 2013, but excluding those which are acquired, sold or Return on average equity BREEAM included in the development pipeline at any time since that date.
Group profit before tax plus joint venture tax divided by the average equity Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Method.
Combined Portfolio Group LTV is the ratio of adjusted net debt, including subsidiaries and joint The Combined Portfolio comprises the investment properties of the Groups Revenue profit ventures, to the sum of the market value of investment properties and the book subsidiaries, on a proportionately consolidated basis when not wholly owned, Profit before tax, excluding profits on the sale of non-current assets and trading value of trading properties of the Group, its subsidiaries and joint ventures, all together with our share of investment properties held in our joint ventures.
properties, profits on long-term development contracts, valuation on a proportionate basis, expressed as a percentage.
For the Security Group, Unless stated otherwise, references are to the Combined Portfolio when the movements, fair value movements on interest-rate swaps and similar LTV is the ratio of net debt lent to the Security Group divided by the value of investment property business is discussed.
instruments used for hedging purposes, the adjustment to interest payable secured assets.
Completed developments resulting from the amortisation of the bond exchange fide-recognition Market value Completed developments consist of those properties previously included in adjustment, debt restructuring charges and any items of an unusual nature.
Market value is determined by the Groups external valuers, in accordance with the development programme, which have been transferred from the Reversionary or under-rented the RICS Valuation Standards, as an opinion of the estimated amount for which development programme since 1 April 2013. a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer Space where the passing rent is below the ERV.
Development pipeline and a willing seller in an arms-length transaction after proper marketing.
Reversionary yield The development programme together with proposed developments.
Mark-to-market adjustment The anticipated yield to which the initial yield will rise or fall once the rent Development programme An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset or liability to its reaches the ERV.
The development programme consists of committed developments Board market value see also fair value movement.
Scrip dividend approved projects with the building contract let, authorised developments Net asset value NAV per share Board approved, projects under construction and developments which have A scrip dividend is when shareholders are offered the opportunity to receive Equity attributable to owners of the parent divided by the number of ordinary reached practical completion within the last two years but are not yet 95% let.
dividends in the form of shares instead of cash.
shares in issue at the period end.
Diluted figures Security Group Reported results adjusted to include the effects of potentially dilutive shares Net initial yield Security Group is the principal funding vehicle for Land Securities and Net initial yield is a calculation by the Groups external valuers of the yield that issuable under employee share schemes.
properties held in the Security Group are mortgaged for the benefit of lenders.
would be received by a purchaser, based on the Estimated Net Rental Income Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP It has the flexibility to raise a variety of different forms of finance.
expressed as a percentage of the acquisition cost, being the market value plus The DRIP provides shareholders with the opportunity to use future cash Temporary lettings assumed usual purchasers costs at the reporting date.
The calculation is in line dividends received to purchase additional Ordinary shares in the Company Lettings for a period of one year or less.
These are included within voids.
Estimated Net Rental Income is determined by the valuer immediately after the relevant dividend payment date.
Full details appear on Topped-up net initial yield and is based on the passing cash rent less ground rent at the balance sheet date, the Companys website.
Topped-up net initial yield is a calculation by the Groups external valuers.
It is estimated non-recoverable outgoings and void costs including service charges, Earnings per share EPS calculated by making an adjustment to net initial yield in respect of the insurance costs and void rates.
Profit after taxation attributable to owners of the parent divided by the annualised cash rent foregone through unexpired rent-free periods and other weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Net rental income lease incentives.
The calculation is consistent with EPRA guidance.
Net rental income is the net operational income arising from the Groups EPRA properties, on an accruals basis, including rental income, finance lease interest, Total business return European Public Real Estate Association.
Dividend paid per share, plus the change in adjusted diluted net asset value per rents payable, service charge income and expense, other property related EPRA net initial yield income, direct property expenditure and bad debts.
share, divided by the adjusted diluted net asset value per share at the beginning EPRA net initial yield is defined within EPRAs Best Practice Recommendations of the year.
as the annualised rental income based on the cash rents passing at the balance Outline planning consent sheet date, less non-recoverable property operating expenses, divided by the This gives consent in principle for a development, and covers matters such as Total cost ratio gross market value of the property.
It is consistent with the net initial yield use and building mass.
Full details of the development scheme must be Total cost ratio represents all costs included within revenue profit, other than calculated by the Groups external valuers.
provided in an application for reserved matters approval, including detailed rents payable and financing costs, expressed as a percentage of gross rental Equivalent yield layout, scale, appearance, access and landscaping, before a project can income before rents payable.
Calculated by the Groups external valuers, equivalent yield is the internal rate proceed.
An outline planning permission will lapse if the submission of Total development cost TDC of return from an investment property, based on the gross outlays for the reserved matters has not been made within three years, or if it has not been Total development cost refers to the book value of the site at the purchase of a property including purchase costs, reflecting reversions to implemented within three years or within two years of the final approval of commencement of the project, the estimated capital expenditure required to current market rent and such items as voids and non-recoverable expenditure reserved matters, unless otherwise expressly stated within conditions develop the scheme from the start of the financial year in which the property is but ignoring future changes in capital value.
The calculation assumes rent is attached to the permission itself or, for any permissions granted on or before added to our development programme, together with capitalised interest, received annually in arrears.
1 October 2009, a successful application has been made to extend the time being the Groups borrowing costs associated with direct expenditure on the ERV Gross estimated rental value within which reserved matters application can be submitted, or the overall property under development.
Interest is also capitalised on the purchase The estimated market rental value of lettable space as determined biannually limit for commencement of development.
cost of land or property where it is acquired specifically for redevelopment.
by the Groups external valuers.
For investment properties in the development Over-rented The TDC for trading property development schemes excludes any estimated programme, which have not yet reached practical completion, the ERV Space where the passing rent is above the ERV.
represents managements view of market rents.
Passing cash rent Total Property Return TPR Fair value movement The estimated annual rent receivable as at the reporting date which includes Valuation movement, profit loss on property sales and net rental income in An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset or liability to its estimates of turnover rent and estimates of rent to be agreed in respect of market value see also mark-to-market adjustment.
respect of investment properties expressed as a percentage of opening book outstanding rent review or lease renewal negotiations.
Passing cash rent may value, together with the time weighted value for capital expenditure incurred Finance lease be more or less than the ERV see over-rented, reversionary and ERV.
Passing A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership from during the current year, on the combined property portfolio.
cash rent excludes annual rent receivable from units in administration save to the lessor to the lessee.
the extent that rents are expected to be received.
Void units and units that are Total Shareholder Return TSR Gearing The growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that in a rent-free period at the reporting date are deemed to have no passing cash Total borrowings, including bank overdrafts, less short-term deposits, rent.
Although temporary lets of less than 12 months are treated as void, dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of the stock.
corporate bonds and cash, at book value, plus cumulative fair value movements income from temporary lets is included in passing cash rents.
Trading properties on financial derivatives as a percentage of total equity.
For adjusted gearing, Pre-development properties Properties held for trading purposes and shown as current assets in the balance see note 22.
Pre-development properties are those properties within the like-for-like sheet.
Gross market value portfolio which are being managed to align vacant possession within a three Turnover rent Market value plus assumed usual purchasers costs at the reporting date.
year horizon with a view to redevelopment.
Rental income which is related to an occupiers turnover.
Head lease Pre-let Voids A lease under which the Group holds an investment property.
A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of a development.
Voids are expressed as a percentage of ERV and represent all unlet space, Interest Cover Ratio ICR Property income distribution PID including voids where refurbishment work is being carried out and voids in A calculation of a companys ability to meet its interest payments on A PID is a distribution by a REIT to its shareholders paid out of qualifying profits.
Temporary lettings for a period of one outstanding debt.
It is calculated using revenue profit before interest, divided A REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of its qualifying profits as a PID to year or less are also treated as voids.
by net interest excluding the mark-to-market movement on interest-rate its shareholders.
swaps, foreign exchange swaps, bond exchange fide-recognition, capitalised Weighted average cost of capital WACC Proposed developments interest and interest on the pension scheme assets and liabilities.
The Weighted average cost of debt and notional cost of equity, used as a benchmark Proposed developments are properties which have not yet received final Board calculation excludes joint ventures.
approval or are still subject to main planning conditions being satisfied, but Interest-rate swap Weighted average unexpired lease term which are more likely to proceed than not.
A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange an interest rate The weighted average of the unexpired term of all leases other than short-term Qualifying activities Qualifying assets obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
These are generally used by the lettings such as car parks and advertising hoardings, temporary lettings of less Group to convert floating-rate debt or investments to fixed rates.
The ownership activity of property assets which is held to earn rental than one year, residential leases and long ground leases.
income and qualifies for tax-exempt treatment income and capital gains Investment portfolio Yield shift under UK REIT legislation.
The investment portfolio comprises the investment properties of the Groups A movement negative or positive in the equivalent yield of a property asset.
subsidiaries, on a proportionately consolidated basis where not wholly owned.
Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Zone A Joint venture A REIT must be a publicly quoted company with at least three-quarters of its A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of retail space by dividing An entity in which the Group holds an interest and is jointly controlled by the profits and assets derived from a qualifying property rental business.
Income Group and one or more partners under a contractual arrangement.
Decisions and capital gains from the property rental business are exempt from tax but the it into zones parallel with the main frontage.
The most valuable zone, Zone A, on financial and operating policies essential to the operation, performance and REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of those profits to shareholders.
is at the front of the unit.
Each successive zone is valued at half the rate of the financial position of the venture require each partners consent.
Corporation tax is payable on non-qualifying activities in the normal way.
Land Securities Group PLC CAUTIONARY STATEMENT Copyright and trademark notices All rights reserved.
Copyright 2015 Land Securities The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide information to the members Group PLC.
of Land Securities Group PLC and it has been prepared for, and only for, those Land Securities, LandSecurities stylised, members as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, its Directors and the Cornerstones logo and Making employees, agents and advisers do not accept or assume any responsibility to any Property Work are trademarks of Land other persons to whom this Annual Report is shown or into whose hands it may Securities Group PLC.
come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
All other trademarks and registered This Annual Report and the Land Securities website may contain certain trademarks are the property of their forward-looking statements with respect to the Company and the Groups respective owners.
financial condition, results of its operations and business, and certain plans, Produced by Brightsource Limited, a Cello Signal company.
strategy, objectives, goals and expectations with respect to these items and the economies and markets in which the Group operates.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identified by Cover and text printed on Munken Design their use of a date in the future or such words as anticipates, aims, due, could, Polar Smooth which is FSC manufactured at a mill which has ISO 14001, EU Ecolabel may, should, will, would, expects, believes, intends, plans, targets, goal and EMAS certification for environmental or estimates or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable standards.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future Independently certified on behalf of the performance.
By their very nature forward-looking statements are inherently Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
unpredictable, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Many of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond the Groups ability to control or estimate precisely.
There are a number of such factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the economies and markets in which the Group operates: changes in the legal, regulatory and competition frameworks in which the Group operates: changes in the markets from which the Group raises finance: the impact of legal or other proceedings against or which affect the Group: changes in accounting practices and interpretation of accounting standards Design: under IFRS, and changes in interest and exchange rates.
co. uk Any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report or the Land Words: Securities website, or made subsequently, which are attributable to Land Tim Rich Securities Group PLC or any other member of the Group, or persons acting on Photography: their behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to Luke Hayes above.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date it is made.
Greg Funnell Except as required by its legal or statutory obligations, the Company does not intend to update any forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report or the Land Securities website should be construed as a profit forecast or an invitation to deal in the securities of the Company.
Land Securities Group PLC 5 Strand, London WC2N 5AF T 44 0 20 7413 9000 E investor.
