Financial statements Definitions Building Research Establishment EPRA topped up net initial yield Occupancy Rate Environmental Assessment Methodology EPRA net initial yield adjusted for The ERV of the let units as a BREEAM expiration or rent free periods or other percentage of the total ERV of the A set of assessment methods and lease incentives such as discounted rent investment portfolio tools designed to help construction periods and stepped rents Omni Channel Retailing professionals understand and mitigate EPRA Vacancy The evolution of multi channel retailing the environmental impacts of the The Estimated Rental Value ERV of providing a seamless shopping developments they design and build immediately available vacant space experience for the consumer through Capital Return divided by total annualised income allavailable shopping channels, The valuation movement on the property ofthe investment portfolio iephysical, internet, mobile, social portfolio adjusted for capital expenditure media, telephone, catalogue etc Equivalent Yield and expressed as a percentage of the The weighted average income return Passing Rent capital employed over the period expressed as a percentage of the market The gross rent payable by tenants under Contracted Rent value of the property, after inclusion of operating leases, less any ground rent The annualised rent adjusting for the estimated purchasers costs payable under head leases inclusion of rent free periods Estimated Rental Value ERV Property Income Distribution PID Cost of debt The external valuers opinion of the Dividends from profits of the Groups Weighted average interest rate payable open market rent which, on the date tax-exempt property business under the of valuation, could reasonably be REIT regulations.
The PID dividend is paid Debt maturity expected to be obtained on a new after deducting withholding tax at the Weighted average period to expiry of letting or rent review of a property basic rate drawn debt European Public Real Estate Association Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Energy Performance Certificate EPC EPRA A listed property company which Required certificate whenever a The European Public Real Estate qualifies for and has elected into a tax property is built, sold or rented.
An EPC Association EPRA is the industry body regime which is exempt from corporation gives a property an energy efficiency for European Real Estate Investment tax on profits from property rental income rating from A most efficient to G least Trusts REITs and UK capital gains on the sale of efficient and is valid for 10 years.
An EPC investment properties contains information about a propertys Group energy use and typical energy costs, and LondonMetric Property PLC and Total Accounting Return TAR recommendations about how to reduce its subsidiaries The movement in EPRA NAV per share energy use and save money between the periods plus the dividend IFRS per share paid during the year expressed EPRA Cost Ratio The International Financial Reporting as a percentage of the EPRA NAV per Total operating costs as a percentage Standards issued by the International share at the beginning of the period ofgross rental income Accounting Standards Board and adopted by the European Union Total Property Return TPR EPRA Earnings per Share EPS Unlevered weighted capital and income Recurring earnings from core operational Income Return return of the property portfolio as activities divided by the average number Net rental income expressed as a calculated by IPD of shares in issue over the year percentage of capital employed over the period Total Shareholder Return TSR EPRA Like for Like Income Growth The movement in the ordinary share The movement in rental income on Investment Portfolio price as quoted on the London Stock properties owned throughout the The Groups property portfolio excluding Exchange plus dividends per share current and previous periods under development, land holdings and assuming the that the dividends are review.
The movement includes revenue residential properties re-invested at the time of being paid recognition and lease accounting Investment Property Databank IPD adjustments but excludes properties Weighted Average Interest Rate Investment Property Databank IPD heldfor development and residential The total loan interest and derivative is a wholly owned subsidiary of MSCI costs per annum including the EPRA NAV per Share producing an independent benchmark amortisation of finance costs at the Balance sheet net assets excluding of property returns and the Groups period end divided by the total debt fair value of derivatives, divided by portfolio returns inissue at the period end thenumber of shares in issue at the Loan to Value LTV balance sheet date Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term Net debt expressed as a percentage WAULT EPRA NNNAV per Share of the total value of investment and Average unexpired lease term across EPRA NAV per share adjusted to include development properties and including the investment portfolio weighted by the fair value of financial instruments, residential assets netrental income debt and deferred taxes at the balance Net Interest Cover Ratio sheet date Yield Shift Net rental income divided by interest The movement in the yield of the EPRA net initial yield payable on borrowings property over a given period.
Annualised rental income based on cash Net Rental Income Yield compression is a commonly rents passing at the balance sheet date, The rental income receivable after usedterm for a reduction in yields less non recoverable property operating deduction for ground rents and other net expenses, expressed as a percentage of property outgoings including void costs the market value of the property, after and net service charge expenses inclusion of estimated purchasers costs LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015135 Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you should seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant, or other financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary shares, please send this document, togetherwith the accompanying documents, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, ortothe stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting 18.
T hat the Directors be and they are hereby generally of the members of LondonMetric Property Plc Registered and unconditionally authorised in accordance with number 7124797 will be held at The Connaught, Carlos Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Place, Mayfair, London W1K 2AL on 16 July 2015 at 10.00 a. m. Act in substitution for all existing authorities: Resolutions 1 to 18 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary a. to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot resolutions and resolutions 19 to 21 inclusive will be proposed shares and to make offers or agreements to allot as special resolutions.
shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the 1.
T hat the Annual Report and Audited Financial Company together relevant securities up to an Statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 be aggregate nominal amount of 20,934,797: and considered and approved.
b. to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot 2.
T hat the Annual Remuneration Report in the form equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 set out in the Annual Report and Audited Financial of the 2006 Act up to an additional aggregate Statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 nominal amount of 20,934,797 provided that this be approved.
authority may only be used in connection with a 3.
T hat the final dividend for the year to 31 March 2015 of rights issue in favour of holders of ordinary shares and 3.5p per share be declared payable on 20 July 2015 other persons entitled to participate therein where toall ordinary shareholders who were on the register the equity securities respectively attributable to the ofmembers at close of business on 12 June 2015. interests of all those persons at such record dates as the Directors may determine are proportionate 4.
T hat a special dividend of 2.0p per share be declared as nearly as may be to the respective numbers payable on 20 July 2015 to all ordinary shareholders of equity securities held or deemed to be held by who were on the register of members at close of them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with business on 12 June 2015. the rights attaching to such equity securities subject 5.
T hat Deloitte LLP be reappointed as auditor of the to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next Directors may consider necessary or expedient to general meeting at which accounts are laid before deal with fractional entitlements or legal difficulties the Company.
under the laws of any territory or the requirements ofa regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue 6.
T hat the Directors be authorised to determine the of shares being represented by depositary receipts remuneration of the auditor.
or any other matter whatsoever, 7.
T hat Patrick Vaughan be re-elected as a Director.
p rovided that the authorities in paragraph a and b 8.
T hat Andrew Jones be re-elected as a Director.
of this resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after 9.
T hat Martin McGann be re-elected as a Director.
the passing of this resolution or if earlier on the date 10.
That Valentine Beresford be re-elected as a Director.
which is 15 months after the date of this Annual General Meeting, except that the Company may before such 11.
That Mark Stirling be re-elected as a Director.
expiry make an offer or agreement which would or 12.
That Charles Cayzer be re-elected as a Director.
might require relevant securities or equity securities as the case may be to be allotted after such expiry and 13.
That James Dean be re-elected as a Director.
the Directors may allot relevant securities or equity 14.
That Alec Pelmore be re-elected as a Director.
securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the authority in question had not expired.
That Andrew Varley be re-elected as a Director.
That Philip Watson be re-elected as a Director.
That Rosalyn Wilton be re-elected as a Director.
LondonMetric Property Plc 136 Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements 19.
T hat the Directors be and are hereby empowered, in 20.
T hat the Company be and is hereby generally and accordance with Sections 570 and 573 of the 2006 Act, unconditionally authorised, in accordance with to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 1 Section 701 of the 2006 Act, to make market purchases of the 2006 Act for cash pursuant to the authority within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the 2006 Act conferred by resolution 18 above or by way of a sale of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the of treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the 2006 Act Company ordinary shares on such terms and in did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this such manner as the Directors may from time to time power shall be limited to: determine provided that: a. t he allotment of equity securities in connection a. the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised with a rights issue or other pro rata offer but in the to be purchased is 62,804,391: case of the authority conferred by resolution 18 b b. the minimum price which may be paid for an by way of a rights issue only in favour of holders ordinary share is 10p being the nominal amount of ordinary shares and other persons entitled to thereof exclusive of expenses payable by participate therein where the equity securities the Company : respectively attributable to the interests of all those persons at such record dates as the Directors may c. the maximum price which may be paid for an determine are proportionate as nearly as may be ordinary share exclusive of expenses payable by to the respective numbers of equity securities held the Company cannot be more than the higher of: or deemed to be held by them or are otherwise i 1 05% of the average market value of an ordinary allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to share for the five business days prior to the day such equity securities subject in each case to such on which the ordinary share is contracted to be exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors purchased: and may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal difficulties under ii t he value of an ordinary share calculated on the the laws of any territory or the requirements of a basis of the higher of: regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue A. the last independent trade of: or ofshares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter whatsoever: B. the highest current independent bid for, b. a nd the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a ny number of ordinary shares on the trading venue paragraph a of this resolution above of equity where the market purchase by the Company will be securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of carried out: and 6,280,439: t he authority conferred shall expire at the conclusion a nd shall expire upon the expiry of the general of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company authority conferred by resolution 18 above, except except that the Company may before such expiry that the Company may make an offer or agreement make a contract to purchase its own shares which will before this power expires which would or might require or may be completed or executed wholly or partly equity securities to be allotted and or shares held by after such expiry.
the Company in treasury to be sold or transferred after 21.
T hat the Company is authorised to call any general such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities meeting of the Company other than the Annual and or sell or transfer shares held by the Company in General Meeting by notice of at least 14 clear days treasury in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if during the period beginning on the date of the passing the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
of this resolution and ending on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
By order of the Board Jadzia Duzniak Company Secretary 2 June 2015 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015137 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting: vii C REST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service i S hareholders entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may do so by utilising the procedures described in the may appoint one or more proxies who need not be CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST shareholders to attend, speak and vote on their behalf, sponsored members, and those CREST members who provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer rights attaching to the different shares held by him or her.
to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
ii Y our proxy could be the Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person who has agreed to attend to viii I n order for a proxy appointment or instruction made represent you.
Your proxy will vote as you instruct and must by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST attend the meeting for your vote to be counted.
Details of message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly how to appoint the Chairman or another person as your authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & proxy using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the Irelands specifications and must contain the information proxy form.
required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes iii A ny person to whom this notice is sent who is a person the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the nominated under Section 146 of the 2006 Act to enjoy instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in information rights a Nominated Person may, under order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by an agreement between him her and the shareholder the issuers agent ID number RA10 by 10 am on 14 July by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be 2015.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken appointed or to have someone else appointed as a tobe the time as determined by the timestamp applied proxy for the General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person to the message by the CREST Applications Host from has no such proxy appointment right, or does not wish which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, byenquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of rights of ix T he Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 in paragraph i above does not apply to Nominated a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The rights described in that paragraph can only x C REST members and, where applicable, their CREST be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
sponsors or voting service providers should note that iv T o have the right to attend and vote at the meeting you Euroclear UK & Ireland does not make available special must hold ordinary shares in the Company and your name procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
must be entered on the share register of the Company in Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply accordance with note vi below.
in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take v T o be valid, Forms of Proxy and the power of attorney or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or or other authority, if any, under which it is signed or a sponsored member or has appointed a voting service notarially certified copy thereof must be completed provider s, to procure that his or her CREST sponsor or and signed and received by Capita Asset Services at voting service provider s take s such action as shall be PXS1, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by Kent, BR3 4ZF as soon as possible but, in any event, so as to means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this arrive no later than 10 am on 14 July 2015.
A Form of Proxy connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their accompanies this notice.
Completion and return of a CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, Form of Proxy will not preclude members from attending in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual and voting at the meeting should they wish to do so.
concerning practical limitations of the CREST system Where you have appointed a proxy using the hard copy and timings.
proxy form and would like to change the instructions using another hard copy proxy form, please contact Capita xi A ny corporation which is a member can appoint one or Asset Services at PXS1, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, more corporate representatives who may exercise on its Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4ZF.
The deadline for receipt of behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do proxy appointments see above also applies in relation to not do so in relation to the same shares.
Any attempt to terminate or amend xii Y ou may not use any electronic address provided either a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline in this notice of Annual General Meeting or any related will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate documents including the form of proxy to communicate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same with the Company for any purposes other than those share in respect of the same meeting, the one which is last expressly stated.
sent shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others.
xiii A s at 1 June 2015 being the closest practical business day before the publication of this Notice, the Companys vi T he time by which a person must be entered on the issued share capital consisted of 628,043,905 ordinary register of members in order to have the right to attend shares carrying one vote each.
or vote at the meeting is 6 pm on 14 July 2015.
If the meeting is adjourned, the time by which a person must xiv M embers satisfying the thresholds in Section 527 of the be entered on the register of members in order to have 2006 Act can require the Company to publish a statement the right to attend or vote at the adjourned meeting is on its website setting out any matter relating to: 6 pm on the day that is two days before the date fixed a. t he audit of the Companys accounts including the for the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are register of members after such times shall be disregarded to be laid before the meeting: or in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote atthe meeting.
LondonMetric Property Plc 138 Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements b. a ny circumstances connected with an auditor of the will be put to shareholders for approval again no later than Company ceasing to hold office since the last Annual 17 July 2017.
General Meeting, that the members propose to raise at Resolution 2 is an ordinary resolution to approve the Annual the meeting.
Remuneration Report on the implementation of the T he Company cannot require the members requesting the remuneration policy.
Section 439 of the Companies Act publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on 2006 the Companies Act requires UK-incorporated listed the website must also be sent to the Companys auditor companies to put their Annual Remuneration Report to an no later than the time it makes its statement available on advisory shareholder vote.
As the vote is advisory it does not the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the affect the actual remuneration paid to any individual director.
meeting includes any statement that the Company has The Annual Remuneration Report is set out in full in the Annual been required to publish on its website.
xv A ny member attending the meeting has the right to ask Resolution 3 Final dividend questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any A final dividend of 3.5p per ordinary share for the year ended such question relating to the business being dealt with at 31 March 2015 is recommended for payment by the directors.
the meeting but no such answer need be given if: If you approve the recommended final dividend, this will be a. t o do so would interfere unduly with the preparation paid on 20 July 2015 to all ordinary shareholders who were on for the meeting or involve the disclosure of the register of members at the close of business on 12 June 2015. confidential information: Resolution 4 Special dividend b. t he answer has already been given on a website in the A special dividend of 2.0p per ordinary share is recommended form of an answer to a question: or for payment by the Directors.
This is being paid to share some c. i t is undesirable in the interests of the Company or of the realised gain arising following the redevelopment and the good order of the meeting that the question sale of offices at Carter Lane.
If you approve the recommended beanswered.
special dividend, this will be paid on 20 July 2015 to all ordinary shareholders who were on the register of members at the close xvi A c opy of this notice, and other information required by of business on 12 June 2015.
Section 311A of the 2006 Act, can be found at www.
Resolutions 5 and 6 Re-appointment of auditors xvii T he following documents are available for inspection Resolution 5 relates to the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the at the registered office of the Company during normal Companys auditor to hold office until the next Annual General business hours on each weekday public holidays Meeting of the Company and Resolution 6 authorises the excluded from the date of this notice until the conclusion Directors to set their remuneration.
of the Annual General Meeting and at the place of the Resolutions 7 to 17 Re-appointment of Directors Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during Resolutions 7 to 17 deal with reappointment of the Directors.
the meeting: Biographies of each of the Directors seeking reappointment can a. c opies of the Executive Directors service contracts with be found on pages 58 to 59 of the Annual Report and Financial the Company: and Statements.
The Board has confirmed, following a performance b. c opies of letters of appointment of review, that all Directors standing for reappointment continue to Non-Executive Directors.
perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their role.
c. a copy of the Articles of Association of the Company.
Resolution 18 Allotment of share capital xviii I n the case of joint registered holders, the signature of one At the last Annual General Meeting of the Company held on holder on a proxy card will be accepted and the vote of 17 July 2014, the Directors were given authority to allot ordinary the senior holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or shares in the capital of the Company up to a maximum nominal by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes amount of 20,934,797 representing approximately one-third of of the other joint holders.
For this purpose, seniority shall the Companys then issued ordinary share capital.
This authority be determined by the order in which names stand on the expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
register of members of the Company in respect of the Your Board considers it appropriate that a similar authority relevant joint holding.
be granted to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 20,934,797 Explanatory notes: representing approximately one-third of the Companys issued The information below is an explanation of the business to be ordinary share capital as at 1 June 2015 the latest practicable considered at the Annual General Meeting.
date before publication of this Notice during the period up to the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of Resolution 1 To receive the Annual Report and Accounts the Company.
The Chairman will present the Annual Report and Audited In addition, The Investment Association has said that it will Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 to the consider as routine a resolution to authorise the allotment of meeting.
Resolution 1 is to consider and approve the Report of a further one-third of share capital for use in connection with the Directors, the financial statements and the Auditors report a rights issue.
Your Board considers it appropriate to seek this on the financial statements and on the auditable part of the additional allotment authority at the Annual General Meeting Annual Remuneration Report for the financial year ended in order to take advantage of the flexibility it offers.
Board has no present intention of exercising either authority.
Resolution 2 Annual Remuneration Report As at the date of this Notice the Company does not hold any At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in treasury.
This policy remains unchanged and is not required to be approved at the Annual General Meeting.
The approved remuneration policy may be viewed in the annual report for 2014 which is available on the Companys website at www.
The remuneration policy LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015139 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Resolution 19 Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights As at 1 June 2015 the latest practicable date before publication Resolution 19 will empower the Directors to allot ordinary of this Notice, there were share awards over 4,760,359 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company for cash on a nonshares in the capital of the Company representing 0.76% of the pre-emptive basis: Companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, 1.
I n connection with a rights issue or other pro-rata offer these awards would represent 0.76% of the Companys issued toexisting shareholders.
ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares.
O therwise than in connection with a rights issue, up to a maximum nominal value of 6,280,439, representing Resolution 21 Notice period for general meetings approximately 10 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share It is proposed in Resolution 21 that shareholders should capital of the Company as at 1 June 2015 the latest approvethe continued ability of the Company to hold general practicable date before publication of this Notice.
meetings other than the Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice.
The Board intends to adhere to the provisions in the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles, as updated in March 2015, and This resolution is required under section 307A of the Companies not to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis pursuant Act.
Under that section, a traded company which wishes to be to the authority in Resolution 19: able to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice must obtain shareholders 1. i n excess of an amount equal to 5 per cent.
issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares : or The resolution is valid up to the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and needs to be renewed annually.
2. i n excess of an amount equal to 7.5 per cent.
of the total The Company will also need to meet the requirements for voting issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding by electronic means under section 307A of the Companies Act treasury shares within a rolling three-year period, without before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
prior consultation with shareholders, The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of In each case other than in connection with an acquisition routine for general meetings, but only where the flexibility is or specified capital investment which is announced merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to contemporaneously with the allotment or which has taken the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed intheannouncement of the allotment.
Adoption of Financial Reporting Standard FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework Resolution 20 Authority to purchase own shares The UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP Resolution 20 gives the Company authority to buy back its own were withdrawn on 1 January 2015.
Accordingly, for its financial ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the Companies year ending 31 March 2016, the Company intends to transition Act.
The authority limits the number of shares that could to reporting under FRS 101, as published by the Financial be purchased to a maximum of 62,804,391 representing Reporting Council, in its parent company financial statements.
of the Companys issued ordinary The Board considers that it is in the best interests of the group share capital as at 1 June 2015 the latest practicable date for the Company to adopt FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure before publication of this Notice and sets minimum and Framework.
No disclosures in the current UK GAAP financial maximum prices.
This authority will expire at the conclusion statements would be omitted following the transition to FRS ofthe next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Any shareholder or shareholders holding in aggregate The Directors have no present intention of exercising the 5% or more of the allotted shares in the Company may serve authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares but will objections on the Company to the use of the disclosure keep the matter under review, taking into account the financial exemptions by writing to the Company Secretary at the resources of the Company, the Companys share price and Registered Office, One Curzon Street, London, England W1J 5HB, future funding opportunities.
The authority will be exercised only no later than 31 August 2015. after consideration by the Directors of the effect on net asset value and if the directors believe that to do so would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
Any purchases of ordinary shares would be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
Listed companies purchasing their own shares are allowed to hold them in treasury as an alternative to cancelling them.
No dividends are paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights attach to treasury shares.
If Resolution 20 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, it is the Companys current intention to hold in treasury the majority of the shares it may purchase pursuant to the authority granted to it.
However, in order to respond properly to the Companys capital requirements and prevailing market conditions, the Directors will need to reassess at the time of any and each actual purchase whether to hold the shares in treasury or cancel them, provided it is permitted to do so.
The Company may hold a maximum of up to 10 per cent.
of its issued share capital in treasury in accordance with guidelines issued by TheInvestment Association.
LondonMetric Property Plc 140 Annual report and accounts 2015
