Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 August 2015 The principal areas where such judgements and estimates have been made are the 1.
General information same as those applied to the consolidated financial statements in the year ended Redefine International P. L. C. was incorporated on 28 June 2004 under the laws of 31August 2014 and are: the Isle of Man.
The Company holds a primary listing on the Main Market of the LSE and a secondary 2.3.
1 Investment property valuation listing on the Main Board of the JSE.
The Group uses the valuations performed by its independent valuers in accordance with IFRS 13 as the fair value of its investment properties.
The valuations are On 4 December 2013 the Company converted to a UKREIT and moved its tax based upon assumptions including estimated rental values, future rental income, residence from the Isle of Man to the UK.
anticipated maintenance costs, future development costs and appropriate discount On 27 February 2015, following approval at the Companys AGM held on rates.
The valuers also make reference to market evidence of transaction prices for 27January2015, the Company transferred its premium listing under Chapter15 similar properties.
Further details are provided in Note 18.
Investment Company, to a premium listing under Chapter 6 CommercialCompany, of the FCAs listing rules and the London Stock Exchanges Main Market for 2.3.
2 Fair value of restructured or acquired liabilities listedsecurities.
New borrowings or existing borrowings which have been substantially modified arerecognised at fair value.
The determination of fair value involves the application 2.
Significant accounting policies of judgement.
2.1 Statement of compliance The Group determines fair value by discounting cash flows associated with the These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with liability at a market discount rate.
The key judgement surrounds the determination International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International ofan appropriate market discount rate.
Management determine the discount rate on Accounting Standards Board IASB.
a loan by loan basis having regard to the term, duration and security arrangements of the new liability and an estimation of the current rates charged in the market for The accounting policies applied by the Group in these consolidated financial similar instruments issued to companies of similar sizes.
statements are the same as those applied by the Group in its audited consolidated financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 August 2014, except for the new This judgement is made more difficult given the bespoke nature of certain loans standards adopted during the year and additional policies arising from changes to obtained by the Group.
Any difference between the nominal value of the loan and the business during the year.
the deemed fair value will be accreted through profit or loss over the term of the loan through the effective interest rate method.
The following are the relevant new standards, amendments and interpretations that have been adopted during the year: unless noted otherwise their adoption had no 2.3.
3 Classification of investment property for UK Hotels significant impact on the consolidated financial statements: The UK Hotels properties are held for capital appreciation and to earn rental income.
IFRS 2 Sharebased Payment amendment : The properties have been let to Redefine Hotel Management Limited RHML and IFRS 3 Business Combinations amendment : Redefine Earls Court Management Limited RECML for a fixed rental which is IFRS 8 Operating Segments amendment : subject to annual review.
The annual review takes into account the forecast EBITDA for the hotel portfolio when setting the revised rental level.
RHML and RECML IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements amendment : operate the hotel business and are exposed to the fluctuations in the underlying IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities amendment : trading performance of the hotels.
They are responsible for the daytoday upkeep of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement amendment : the properties and retain the key decision making responsibility for the businesses.
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures amendment : Redefine International P. L. C. holds a 25.3% shareholding in Redefine BDL IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements Investment Entities amendment : Hotel Group Limited RedefineBDL, which in turn owns RHML and RECML.
IAS 40 Investment Property amendment : and Having considered the guidance in IFRS 10, the respective rights of each of the Shareholders in RedefineBDL and the size of the Companys shareholding compared Annual improvements to IFRSs 20102012 Cycle and Annual Improvements to with other Shareholders, management have determined that Redefine International IFRSs 20112013. does not control RedefineBDL and hence does not control RHML or RECML.
2.2 Basis of preparation Aside from the payment of rental income to Redefine International P. L. C. The consolidated financial statements are presented in Great British Pounds, which which resets annually, and the Groups shareholding in RedefineBDL, Redefine is the functional currency of the Company and the presentational currency of the InternationalP.
L. C. is not involved with the hotel management business and Group, rounded to the nearest million pounds.
They are prepared using the historical there are limited transactions between the two entities.
As a result, Redefine cost basis except for investment property, certain assets held for sale, derivative InternationalP.
L. C. classifies the hotel properties as investment properties in line financial instruments and financial instruments designated at fair value through profit with IAS 40. and loss.
4 Property acquisitions 2.3 Key judgements and estimates Where properties are acquired through the acquisition of corporate interests, the The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of Directors have regard to the substance of the assets and activities of the acquired judgements and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities entity in determining whether the acquisition represents the acquisition of a business.
at the reporting date and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the Where such acquisitions are not judged to be an acquisition of a business the year.
Although these estimates are based on the Directors best knowledge of the transactions are accounted for as if the Group had acquired the underlying property amount, event or actions, actual results may differ from those estimates.
Accordingly, no goodwill arises, rather the cost of the corporate entity is allocated between the identifiable assets and liabilities of the entity based on their relative fair values at the acquisition date.
Otherwise corporate acquisitions are accounted for as business combinations.
Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 77 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 August 2015 2.
4 Investment in associates and joint ventures Associates are entities over whose financial and operating policies the Group has 2.4 Basis of consolidation the ability to exercise significant influence but not control and which are neither 2.4.
1 Investment in subsidiaries subsidiaries nor joint ventures.
The Group classifies its interests in joint arrangements A subsidiary undertaking is an investee controlled by the Group.
The Group controls as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the Groups rights to the an investee when it has power over the investee, is exposed, or has rights, to assets and obligations for the liabilities of the arrangements.
When making this variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect assessment, the Group considers the structure of the arrangements, the legal form those returns through its power over the investee.
Subsidiaries are consolidated in of any separate vehicles, the contractual terms of the arrangements and other facts the Groups financial statements from the date on which control commences until and circumstances.
the date that control ceases.
Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures are initially recorded The Group reassesses whether it controls a subsidiary when facts and at cost and increased or decreased each year by the Groups share of the circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more elements of control.
postacquisition net income or loss, and other movements reflected directly intheother comprehensive income or equity of the associated undertaking.
If the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the Group: Where the Group acquires an additional shareholding such that the investment a. derecognises the assets including any goodwill and liabilities of the former becomes a subsidiary or where it obtains significant influence such that an subsidiary at their carrying amounts at the date control is lost: investment which was previously accounted for as an investment under IAS 39 is b. derecognises the carrying amount of any noncontrolling interests in the former now to be treated as an associate undertaking, the Groups previously held interest subsidiary at the date control is lost including amounts of other comprehensive is remeasured to fair value through profit or loss for the year.
The cost of the income attributed to noncontrolling interests : associate is determined as the fair value of the original investment plus the fair value c. recognises the fair value of any consideration received: of any additional consideration given to achieve significant influence.
d. reclassifies to profit or loss, or transfers directly to retained earnings, amounts Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associated undertaking or joint venture is recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to the subsidiary on the included in the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses same basis as would be required if the parent had directly disposed of the in an associate or joint venture has reduced the carrying amount to zero, including related assets or liabilities: any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, e. recognises any investment retained in the former subsidiary at its fair value at the unless it has incurred obligations to make payments on behalf of the associate or date when control is lost: and joint venture.
f. recognises any resulting difference of the above items as a gain or loss in the The Groups share of the results of associate undertakings or joint ventures after tax income statement.
reflects the Groups proportionate interest in the relevant undertaking and is based The Group subsequently accounts for any investment retained in the former on financial statements drawn up to a date not earlier than three months before subsidiary in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments, or when appropriate, the year end reporting date, adjusted to conform with the accounting policies of IAS28 Investments in Associates and joint ventures.
This accounting policy is applied when the Group loses control of a subsidiary Since goodwill that forms part of the carrying amount of the investment in an through the sale of shares to a party outside the Group and when a controlling associate or joint venture is not recognised separately, it is not tested for impairment interest in a subsidiary is contributed to an existing joint venture of the Group.
Instead, the entire amount of the investment in an associate or joint venture is tested for impairment as a single asset when there is objective evidence 2.4.
2 Business combinations that the investment in an associate or joint venture may be impaired.
The Group accounts for the acquisition of businesses using the acquisition Reversals of impairments are recorded as an adjustment to the investment balance method.
Under the acquisition method, the consideration transferred in a business to the extent that the recoverable amount of the associate or joint venture increases.
combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of: Unrealised gains and losses arising from transactions with associates and joint the acquisition date fair value of assets transferred by the Group: ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entities.
liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree: and When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate or joint the equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
control over a joint venture, that is accounted for as a disposal of the entire interest Acquisition related costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
in that investee, with a resulting gain or loss being recognised in profit or loss.
Anyinterest retained in that former investee at the date when significant influence or Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of: joint control is lost is recognised at fair value and this amount is regarded as the fair the fair value of the consideration transferred: value on initial recognition of a financial asset or, when appropriate, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate.
the amount of any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree: and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree, Associates and joint ventures are carried at cost less impairments in the Company ifany: less financial statements.
the net of the acquisition date fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and Any gain or loss on the dilution of an interest in an equityaccounted investee is liabilities assumed.
calculated as the difference between the carrying amounts of the investment in the equityaccounted investee, immediately before and after the transaction that resulted For each business combination, the Group recognises any noncontrolling interest in in the dilution and is recognised in profit or loss.
the acquiree at its proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
For changes in the Groups interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss 2.4.
5 Goodwill and intangible assets of control, the Group adjusts the carrying amounts of the controlling and Goodwill and intangible assets are carried at cost less impairment.
In respect of noncontrolling interests to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the equity accounted investments the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the subsidiary.
The difference between the change in value of the noncontrolling interest carrying amount of the investment and an impairment loss on such an investment and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in is not allocated to any underlying asset, including goodwill that forms part of the equity and attributed to the equity holders of the parent.
carrying amount of the investee.
3 Transactions eliminated on consolidation Amortisation of intangible assets is recognised in profit or loss on a straightline basis over their estimated useful life, from the date that they are available for use.
Intragroup balances, transactions and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
78 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information 2.5 Currency translation reserve 2.6.
1 Borrowing costs and cost of construction 2.5.
1 Foreign currency transactions All costs directly associated with the purchase and construction of a property are capitalised.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Borrowing costs are capitalised if they are directly attributable to the acquisition, foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated to the functional currency at construction or production of a qualifying asset.
Capitalisation of borrowing the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising costs commences when the activities to prepare the asset are in progress on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Nonmonetary assets and and expenditures and borrowing costs are being incurred.
Capitalisation of liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated borrowing costs may continue until the assets are substantially ready for their to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates that the intended use.
If the resulting carrying amount of the asset exceeds its value, an values are determined.
The capitalisation rate is arrived at by reference to the actual rate payable on borrowings for development purposes or, with 2.5.
2 Foreign operations regard to that part of the development cost financed out of general funds, Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign totheaverage rate.
operations are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve FCTR.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
On consolidation, the statements 2.7 Property, plant and equipment of financial position of foreign subsidiaries and associates are translated at the Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated closing rate and the income statement and statement of comprehensive income are depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Subsequent expenditure translated at the rates at the dates of the transaction or at an average rate for the is capitalised only if it is probable that the future economic benefits associated year where this is a reasonable approximation.
with the expenditure will flow to the Group.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of items less their estimated residual values using the straightline 2.6 Investment property method over their estimated useful lives and is generally recognised in profit or Investment properties are those which are held either to earn rental income or loss.
Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their for capital appreciation or for both.
Investment properties are stated at fair value.
useful lives unless it is reasonably certain that the Group will obtain ownership External, independent valuation companies, having professionally qualified valuers by the end of the lease term.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated and recent experience in the location and category of property being valued, value over a period of between two to five years.
the portfolios on an annual basis.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which property could be exchanged on a highest and best 2.8 Financial instruments recognition, classification use basis between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction and measurement after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably and Nonderivative financial instruments without compulsion.
Nonderivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity securities, The valuations are prepared by considering comparable market transactions for trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, sales and letting and having regard for the current leases in place.
In the case of and trade and other payables.
lettings this includes considering the aggregate of the net annual market rents Nonderivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, receivable from the properties and where relevant, associated costs.
A yield which for instruments not designated at fair value through profit or loss, any directly reflects the risks inherent in the net cash flows is applied to the net annual rentals to attributable transaction costs, except as described below.
Loan receivables arrive at the property valuation.
and payables are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective As the fair value model is applied, property under construction or redevelopment for interest rate method.
future use as investment property is measured at fair value.
However, where the fair A financial instrument is recognised when the Group becomes a party to the value of investment property under redevelopment is not reliably measurable, the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised if property is measured at cost.
the Groups contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial assets expire Property held under leases for the same purpose is also classified as investment or if the Group transfers the financial assets to another party without retaining property, accounted for as if held under a Finance Lease and initially recognised control or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset.
Regular way purchases at the sum of any premium paid on acquisition and the present value of any future and sales of financial assets are accounted for at trade date, i. e. the date that minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the superior leaseholder the Group commits itself to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial liabilities are is included in the consolidated statement of financial position as a Finance Lease derecognised if the Groups obligations specified in the contract expire.
Investments at fair value through profit or loss Thereafter investment property is measured at fair value, which reflects market An instrument is classified at fair value through profit or loss if it is held for conditions at the reporting date.
For the purposes of the historical financial trading or is designated as such upon initial recognition.
Financial instruments information, the assessed fair value is: are designated as fair value through profit or loss if the Group manages such reduced by the carrying amount of any accrued income and expense resulting investments and makes purchase and sale decisions based on their fair value.
from the spreading of lease incentives to tenants and or minimum lease Upon initial recognition, attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit payments: and or loss when incurred.
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss increased by the carrying amount of any liability to the superior leaseholder comprise equity securities and are measured at fair value with changes therein included in the consolidated statement of financial position as a Finance Lease recognised in the income statement.
Fair values are determined by reference to obligation.
their quoted bid price at the reporting date.
Investments in investment property funds are recorded at the net asset value per share reported by the managers of The annual valuations of investment property are based upon estimates and such funds, which is considered the best estimate of fair value.
subjective judgements that may vary from the actual values and sales prices that may be realised by the Group upon ultimate disposal.
The critical assumptions made Derivative financial instruments relating to valuations have been disclosed in Note 18 to the financial statements.
The Group holds derivative financial instruments to manage its interest rate Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment property are risk exposures.
Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract included in the profit or loss in the year in which they arise.
and accounted for separately if the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the embedded derivative are not closely related, a separate Acquisition and disposals of investment property are recognised when significant instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the risks and rewards attached to the property have transferred to, or from, the Group.
definition of a derivative, and the combined instrument is not measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are accounted for in profit or loss and disclosed in gains losses on financial assets and liabilities.
Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 79 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 August 2015 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Restructured debt A financial liability is derecognised when it is extinguished i. e. it is discharged, 2.9 Finance leases cancelled or expires which may happen when full repayment is made to the lender, Finance Leases, which are the ground rents payable to the superior landlord on the borrower is legally released from primary responsibility for the financial liability or leasehold properties, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value where there is an exchange of debt instruments with substantially different terms or a of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the future minimum lease substantial modification of the terms of an existing debt instrument.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the In the event of a substantial modification in terms, any difference between the remaining balance of the liability over the lease term.
Finance charges are charged carrying amount of the original liability and the consideration paid is recognised in through profit or loss as they arise.
The consideration paid includes nonfinancial assets transferred and the assumption of liabilities, including the new modified financial liability.
Any new 2.10 Impairment financial liability recognised is measured initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost under the effective interest rate method.
Any costs or fees incurred Financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss are assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence that they are are recognised as part of the gain or loss on extinguishment and do not adjust the impaired.
A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss carrying amount of the new liability.
event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss event 2.15 Dividends had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that can be estimated reliably.
Dividends to Shareholders are recognised when they become legally payable.
Inthecase of interim dividends, this is when declared and paid by the Directors.
Objective evidence that financial assets including equity securities are impaired Inthe case of final dividends, this is when approved by the Shareholders at a can include default or delinquency by a debtor, restructuring of an amount due to generalmeeting.
the Group on terms that the Group would not consider otherwise, indications that a debtor or issuer will enter bankruptcy, adverse changes in the payment status of 2.16 Rental income borrowers or issuers in the Group, economic conditions that correlate with defaults Rental income from investment property leased out under operating leases is or the disappearance of an active market for a security.
recognised in the income statement on a straightline basis over the term of the An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is leases.
Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of the income and amortised over the term of the leases.
estimated future cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Contingent rental income is recognised as it arises.
Premiums to terminate leases are Losses are recognised in profit or loss and reflected in an allowance account against recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
Interest on the impaired asset continues to be recognised.
When a subsequent event e. g. repayment by a debtor causes the amount of 2.17 Service charges impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is calculated on the Where the Group invoices service charges, these amounts are not recognised as same basis as the original charge and reversed through profit or loss.
income as the risks in relation to the provision of these goods and services are primarily borne by the Groups customers and consequently they are recognised as 2.11 Cash and cash equivalents a reduction in property operating expenses.
Any servicing expenses suffered by the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances on hand, cash deposited with Group are included within property operating expenses in the income statement.
financial institutions and shortterm call deposits.
Cash and cash equivalents have a maturity of less than three months.
2.18 Investment and interest income Restricted cash comprises cash deposits which are restricted until the fulfilment of Dividends from listed property investments are recognised on the date the Groups certain conditions.
right to receive payment is established.
Interest earned on cash invested with financial institutions is recognised on an accrual basis using the effective interest 2.12 Share capital ratemethod.
Ordinary Share Capital 2.19 Income tax Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
External costs directly attributable to the Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
issue of new shares, net of tax, are shown as a deduction from any recognised share Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates premium.
to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income or equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income.
2.13 Leasehold property Leasehold properties that are leased out to tenants under operating leases are Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year and is calculated using tax rates classified as investment properties as appropriate and are included in the statement that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Taxable of financial position at fair value.
profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are not taxable or tax deductible.
Land interests held under operating leases are classified and accounted for as investment property on a property by property basis when they are held to earn Deferred tax is provided using the statement of financial position liability method, rentals or for capital appreciation on both the land and the property elements.
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets Anysuch property interest under an operating lease classified as investment and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation property is carried at fair value.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: those arising from goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, those arising from the initial 2.14 Borrowings recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting or taxable profit, Interestbearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less directly nordifferences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent described below.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestbearing The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised and is reduced Finance costs to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will berealised.
Finance costs recognised in the income statement represent interest payable on Deferred tax is not provided on temporary differences arising on investments in borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method.
subsidiaries and joint ventures where the timing of the reversal can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
80 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period Where the Group is committed to a sale plan involving the loss of control of a when the asset is realised or the liability settled.
Deferred tax on the fair value subsidiary it classifies all the assets and liabilities of that subsidiary as held for adjustment on investment properties and listed securities has been provided at the sale when the criteria set out above and detailed in IFRS 5 Noncurrent Assets capital gains taxation rate based on the manner in which each asset is expected to Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are met, regardless of whether the be realised.
Deferred taxation liabilities are provided only to the extent that there are Group will retain a noncontrolling interest in its former subsidiary after the sale.
not sufficient tax losses to shield the charge.
On initial classification as held for sale, generally, noncurrent assets and disposal groups are measured at the lower of the previous carrying amount and 2.20 Earnings per share fair value less costs to sell, with any adjustments taken to the income statement.
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share EPS data for its ordinary The same applies to gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary However, certain items such as financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 Shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares and investment property in the scope of IAS 40 continue to be measured in outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS is determined by dividing the profit or loss accordance with those standards.
attributable to ordinary Shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary Impairment losses subsequent to the classification of assets as held for sale are shares outstanding adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
recognised in the income statement.
In line with JSE requirements, the Group also presents headline earnings per share.
Increases in fair value less costs to sell of assets that have been classified 2.21 Segmental reporting as held for sale are recognised in the income statement to the extent that the increase is not in excess of any cumulative impairment loss previously An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business recognised in respect of the asset.
Assets classified as held for sale are not activities from which it may earn revenues and in respect of which it may incur depreciated.
expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
An operating segments operating results are Gains and losses on remeasurement and impairment losses subsequent to reviewed regularly by the Chief Operating Decision Maker to inform decisions about classification as disposal groups and noncurrent assets held for sale are shown resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, and for within continuing operations in the income statement, unless they qualify as which discrete financial information is available.
See Note 3 for further details.
Disposal groups and noncurrent assets held for sale are presented separately 2.22 Capital instrument from other assets and liabilities on the statement of financial position.
Prior A financial instrument or its component parts is classified on initial recognition as periods are not reclassified.
a financial liability, a financial asset or an equity instrument in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
2.25 Provisions An instrument is classified as equity where there is no contractual obligation to A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present deliver cash or another financial asset to another party, or to exchange financial legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably and it is probable assets or financial liabilities with another party under potentially unfavourable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
conditions for the issuer of the instrument or where the instrument will or may be Provisions are determined by discounting the expected cash flows at a pre tax settled for a fixed number of the entitys own equity instruments.
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Equity instruments are recognised initially at their fair value with any directly attributable costs allocated to the instrument.
The equity instrument is not Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required, remeasured subsequent to initial recognition.
or the amount cannot be estimated reliably, the obligation is disclosed as a contingent liability, unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits Payments in relation to the capital instrument that are settled in equity shares are isremote.
deemed to be sharebased payments and are recorded in the income statement due to the unavoidable nature of the obligation.
2.26 Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain 2.23 Employee benefits and employee sharebased payments investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of Employee benefits, such as salaries and other benefits, are accounted for on an the business.
The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of accruals basis over the period during which employees have provided services.
Shareholders, as well as the return on capital, which the Group defines as total Bonuses are recognised to the extent that the Group has a legal or constructive Shareholders equity, excluding noncontrolling interests, and the dividends paid obligation to its employees that can be measured reliably.
Sharebased incentives are provided to employees under the Groups LongTerm At the 2014 AGM the Company received the necessary authorisation from Performance Share Plan PSP for Executive Directors and the Restricted Stock Shareholders to purchase its own shares on the market, subject to such shares Plan for employees.
The Group recognises a compensation cost in respect of these being cancelled immediately upon acquisition.
The timing of purchases will schemes that is based on the fair value of the awards, measured using the Monte depend on market conditions and purchase and sale decisions will be made Carlo valuation methodology.
on a transaction by transaction basis by the Board of Directors.
No share For equitysettled schemes, the fair value is determined at the date of grant and purchases took place in the period.
The Group does not have a defined share is not subsequently remeasured unless the conditions on which the award was buybackplan.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally For cashsettled schemes, the fair value is determined at the date of grant and imposed regulatory capital requirements.
The level of the Companys is remeasured at each reporting date until the liability is settled.
Generally, borrowings, in terms of its articles of association, shall not at any time, without the compensation cost is recognised on a straightline basis over the vesting the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the Company exceed ten times period.
Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the aggregate of: the vesting period due to the failure to satisfy service conditions or nonmarket a. the amount paid up on the issued share capital of the Company: and .
b. the total of capital and revenue reserves.
2.24 Disposal groups and noncurrent assets held for sale The Companys dividend policy is to distribute the majority of its earnings A noncurrent asset or a disposal group comprising assets and liabilities is classified available for distribution in the form of dividends to Shareholders.
as held for sale if it is expected that its carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use, it is available for immediate sale and it is highly probable that the sale will occur within one year.
For the sale to be highly probable, the appropriate level of management must be committed to a plan to sell the asset or disposal group.
Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 81 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 August 2015 3.
Segmental reporting The Groups identified reportable segments are set out below.
These segments are generally managed by separate management teams.
As required by IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the information provided to the Board, which is the Chief Operating Decision Maker, can be classified into the following segments: UK Retail: the Groups portfolio of seven whollyowned shopping centres: UK Hotels: the Groups hotel properties comprising eight hotels in Greater London and South East, England and one hotel in Edinburgh, Scot land.
The Group also holds a 25.3% shareholding in RedefineBDL which leases and manages all of the Groups hotel properties except for the Enfield Travelodge: UK Commercial: the Groups portfolio of offices, motor trade and roadside service stations: Europe: the Groups properties in Continental Europe, located primarily in Germany but also in the Netherlands.
The portfolio comprises shopping centres, discount supermarkets and governmentlet offices: and Cromwell: relates to the Groups investment in the Cromwell Property Group, Australia, which was disposed of during the year and is prese nted for comparative purposes only.
Relevant revenue, asset and capital expenditure information is set out below: i Information about reportable segments UK UK UK Cromwell 1 Retail Hotels Commercial Europe disposed Total m m m m m m For the year ended 31 August 2015 Gross rental income 26.5 13.3 13.7 14.8 68.3 Investment income 7.5 7.5 Other income 2.5 0.1 2.6 Property operating expenses 3.3 0.7 1.3 5.3 Gain on extinguishment acquisition of debt 23.0 6.8 29.8 Net gain loss from financial assets and liabilities 0.2 0.7 0.4 0.5 17.5 16.9 Gain on bargain purchase of subsidiary 0.2 0.2 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 Equity accounted profit 0.5 5.6 6.1 Net fair value gain on investment property and assets held for sale 11.5 12.0 5.9 0.2 29.6 Gain on disposal of joint venture 0.6 0.6 Impairment of loans to joint ventures 0.4 3.4 3.8 Gain on disposal of assets held for sale 0.6 0.6 Interest income 1.0 0.4 1.4 2.8 Interest expense senior debt 13.6 4.3 3.8 6.7 1.9 30.3 Total per reportable segments 20.9 23.8 40.2 18.5 11.9 91.5 Investment property 355.5 234.7 154.2 190.0 934.4 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 1.5 0.4 3.3 0.2 2.5 Investment in joint ventures 14.6 14.6 Loans to joint ventures 33.6 33.6 Investment in associates 8.0 8.0 Loan borrowings 204.2 110.2 58.6 146.1 23.2 542.3 For the year ended 31 August 2014 Gross rental income 21.8 11.4 17.3 15.7 66.2 Investment income 10.1 10.1 Property operating expenses 2.9 0.1 1.2 4.2 Gain on extinguishment acquisition of debt 44.9 44.9 Net gain loss from financial assets and liabilities 7.7 0.5 0.2 2.1 5.5 0.8 Equity accounted profit 0.7 3.2 3.9 Net fair value gain loss on investment property and assets held for sale 15.8 20.6 14.8 1.4 49.8 Interest income 1.8 3.3 0.2 0.3 5.6 Interest expense senior debt 11.1 3.9 6.5 6.1 2.3 29.9 Total per reportable segments 33.1 32.6 70.8 8.4 2.3 147.2 Investment property 346.1 193.9 131.8 220.7 892.5 Longterm receivables 1.6 1.6 Investments at fair value 97.8 97.8 Derivative financial instruments 2.1 0.3 2.4 Investment in joint ventures 15.2 15.2 Loans to joint ventures 0.5 0.7 1.2 Investment in associates 8.0 8.0 Assets held for sale 51.9 51.9 Loan borrowings 205.2 95.1 134.1 160.1 28.1 622.6 1 On 31 August 2015 the Group disposed of its shareholding in Cromwell, refer to Note 20 for further details.
82 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information ii Reconciliation of reportable segment profit or loss 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Total profit per reportable segments 91.5 147.2 Other profit or loss unallocated amounts Other income 1.3 1.0 Administrative expenses 7.0 5.4 Investment adviser and professional fees 4.1 6.5 Impairment of goodwill 2.0 Write down and amortisation of intangible assets 0.2 23.0 Interest income 2.4 Interest expense 12.4 Foreign exchange gain 2.5 0.6 Consolidated profit before taxation 84.0 101.9 4.
Gross rental income 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Gross lease payments collected accrued from third parties 55.0 54.8 Gross lease payments collected accrued from related parties Note 36 13.3 11.4 Gross rental income 68.3 66.2 The future aggregate minimum rentals receivable under noncancellable operating leases are as follows: Not later than one year 63.7 67.1 Later than one year not later than five years 225.1 230.3 Later than five years 376.2 414.2 665.0 711.6 5.
Investment income 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Dividends received from equity securities designated at fair value through profit or loss 7.5 10.1 Investment income 7.5 10.1 6.
Other income 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Fee income from related parties Note 36 0.8 Other property income 3.1 1.0 Other income 3.9 1.0 7.
Administrative and other operating expenses 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Administration and other operating expenditure 2.6 2.4 Staff costs 3.8 2.5 Depreciation 0.1 Sharebased payments Note 33 0.5 0.5 Administrative and other operating expenses 7.0 5.4 Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 83 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 August 2015 8.
Investment adviser and professional fees 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Investment adviser management fees Note 36 0.8 Independent auditors remuneration for audit 0.3 0.3 for tax compliance and advisory work 0.2 Legal fees 3.4 3.2 Other professional fees 0.4 2.0 Investment adviser and professional fees 4.1 6.5 Following the completion of the management internalisation on 2 December 2013 the Investment Advisory Agreement IAA between the Company and RIPML was cancelled.
Prior to cancellation asset management and certain other fees were payable under the IAA.
These fees included an incentive fee payable by the Company to RIPML if certain conditions were met.
Impairment of goodwill 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Opening balance Goodwill generated from business acquisitions Note 12 2.0 Write off of goodwill 2.0 10.
Gain on extinguishment acquisition of debt 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Writeoff of residual Delta liabilities 23.0 Gain on acquisition of German loans 3.5 Release of Finance Lease liability 3.3 Writeoff of residual Gamma liabilities 44.9 Gain on extinguishment acquisition of debt 29.8 44.9 As further discussed in Note 27, the Company restructured the 114.6 million Delta facility in October 2012.
Following the orderly disposal of all properties during this financial year three of which were purchased from the security pool by the Group, on 25 August 2015 the Company was released from all obligations arising under the agreement.
As a result, a gain of 23.0 million has been recognised representing the writeoff of the residual debt.
By way of loan assignment, on 15 October 2014 the Group acquired loans with a face value of 14.5 million secured by a portfolio of German properties owned by the Group.
This resulted in a gain of 4.5 million 3.5 million.
On disposal of the Swiss properties during the financial year, the remaining Finance Lease liability of 3.3 million was released to the income statement.
A Fixed Charge Receiver the Receiver was appointed to the property subsidiaries which secured the Gamma facility in January 2013.
On 28 August 2014, following the sale by the Receiver of all of the properties securing the Gamma facility, the Group received extinguishment of the residual Gamma debt of 44.9 million from the Security Trustee.
Net loss gain from financial assets and liabilities 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Fair value through profit or loss Equity investments unrealised Note 20 8.6 Equity investments realised Note 20 17.6 3.1 Derivative financial instruments 0.7 1.1 Loss on remeasurement of deferred consideration related to the CMC acquisition 0.6 Financial assets carried at amortised cost Gain on debt restructure 6.2 Reversal of impairment on loans and receivables 1.8 Net loss gain from financial assets and liabilities 16.9 0.8 84 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information 12. Business combinations On 19 December 2014, the Company acquired an additional 44.9% shareholding in Ciref Premium Holdings Limited previously named Ciref Nepi Holdings Limited from its joint venture partner, New Europe Property BVI Limited for a consideration of 3.6 million 2.8 million.
Ciref Premium Holdings Limited owns six properties in Germany thePremium Portfolio.
This acquisition brings the Groups interest in Ciref Premium Holdings Limited to 94.9% and it is accounted for as a subsidiary undertaking from the acquisition date, i. e. the date control was obtained.
The acquisitions during the 2014 financial year relate to the purchase of the companies holding Grand Arcade, Wigan and West Orchards, Coventry.
The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisition and the net cash position have been summarised in the table below: 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities Investment property including Finance Leases 26.1 123.0 Trade and other receivables 0.1 0.7 Cash and cash equivalents 0.9 1.2 Borrowings including Finance Leases 19.6 73.7 Trade and other payables including derivatives 1.4 44.1 6.1 7.1 Fair value of consideration transferred Cash consideration 2.8 7.1 Fair value of existing 50% of shareholding and loan 3.1 5.9 7.1 Goodwill Fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities 6.1 7.1 Noncontrolling interest Consideration 5.9 7.1 Gain on bargain purchase of subsidiary 0.2 Ciref Premium Holdings Limited The fair value of the investment property was determined by the Directors having regard to the 31 August 2014 independent valuation and movements in the market up to the date of acquisition.
The fair value of loans and borrowings was determined by reference to market interest rates available for similar debt instruments.
The fair value of trade receivables and trade payables was determined based on the terms of the underlying transactions and was for the most part deemed to approximate their carrying value.
The gain on bargain purchase needs to be considered in light of the downward fair value movement on loans to Ciref Premium Holdings Limited of 0.7 million included in the impairment of loans to joint ventures disclosed in Note 21 to the financial statements.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 September 2014, management estimates that consolidated revenue for the Group in 2015 would have been 79.4 million and consolidated profit for the year ended 31 August 2015 would have been 103.6 million.
Indetermining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments that arose on the date of acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition hadoccurred at the beginning of the year.
RIMH On 2 December 2013 the Company completed the acquisition of RIMH, the consideration of which was satisfied by the issue of 79,000,000 new ordinary shares in the Company.
12,989,899 shares were issued to settle the incentive fee payable under the Investment Adviser Agreement IAA between the Company and RIPML, while 66,010,101 shares were issued as the consideration to acquire RIMH.
The fair value of the ordinary shares issued was based on the listed share price of the Company at 2December 2013 of 49.50 pence per share.
Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 85 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 August 2015 13.
Disposal of subsidiaries The Group did not dispose of any subsidiaries during the financial year ended 31 August 2014.
During 2015, the Group reduced its shareholding in the following subsidiaries to 50% and 53% respectively: Ciref Berlin 1 Limited: and Ciref European Portfolio 2 Limited.
These entities are now accounted for as jointly controlled entities, under the Leopard Portfolio, the details of which are disclosed in Note 21.
The impact on the Group is shown below: 31 August 2015 m Consideration received Cash consideration 4.9 Carrying amount of noncontrolling interest 0.1 Fair value of retained joint venture interest 1.2 Fair value of retained loan to joint venture 3.5 Total consideration received 9.7 Assets Investment property 11.5 Cash 0.3 Trade and other receivables 0.5 Liabilities Trade and other payables 0.1 Borrowings 3.0 Net assets disposed 9.2 Less: Transfer of FCTR to income statement on disposal of foreign operation 0.8 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 0.3 The net loss presented in the table above is made up of a gain of 0.7 million on the Ciref Berlin 1 Limited transaction and a loss of 1.0 million on the Ciref European Portfolio 2 Limited transaction, including 3.4 million and 1.3 million in respect of the fair value of the investments and loans retained in the former subsidiaries respectively.
Commercially, the Directors considered these two transactions together.
Equity accounted profit 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Investment in joint ventures Note 21 5.5 3.2 Investment in associates Note 22 0.6 0.4 Gain on dilution of shareholding in associate 0.3 Equity accounted profit 6.1 3.9 15.
Interest income 1 Represented 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Interest receivable from mezzanine financing 5.5 Interest income on bank deposits 0.5 0.3 Interest income on loans advanced to other parties 1.2 Interest income on loans to related parties Note 36 2.3 1.0 Interest income 2.8 8.0 1 The 2014 figure has been represented in the current year with 1.2 million now reported as Interest income on loans advanced to other parties and 1.0 million as Interest income on loans to related parties as disclosed in Note 36.
86 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information 16.
Interest expense 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Interest expense on mezzanine financing 6.9 Interest expense on secured bank loans 29.3 34.2 Interest expense on amounts due to related parties Note 36 0.4 Finance Lease interest 1.0 0.8 Interest expense 30.3 42.3 Interest expense on bank loans for the year ended 31 August 2015 includes 2.7 million 31 August 2014: 2.8 million in finance costs due to the amortisation of the fair value adjustments on liabilities acquired, or substantially modified leading to the recognition of the deemed new liability at fair value.
Taxation a Tax recognised in income: 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Current income tax Income tax in respect of current year 3.8 2.2 Withholding tax 0.8 1.1 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1.5 4.2 Income tax charge credit 6.1 0.9 No tax was recognised in equity or other comprehensive income during the year 2014: Nil.
b Recognised deferred tax liability and movement during the year: 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Opening balance 0.7 4.9 Deferred tax liability recognised on investment properties 1.5 0.1 Deferred tax asset recognised on investments at fair value 4.1 Closing balance 2.2 0.7 c Reconciliation The tax rate for the year 31 August 2015 is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.58% 31 August 2014: 21%.
The differences are explained below: 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Profit before taxation 84.0 101.9 Profit before tax multiplied by rate of corporation tax 17.3 21.4 Effect of: exempt property valuations 6.1 10.5 gain on extinguishment acquisition of debt 6.1 9.4 income not subject to UK income tax 6.0 5.0 impact of foreign tax Australian tax on Cromwell 2.4 gain loss from financial assets and liabilities 3.5 0.2 other taxable income 2.7 expenses not deductible for tax 4.1 withholding tax 0.8 1.1 Tax charge credit for the year 6.1 0.9 Net deferred tax assets not recognised amounted to 15.7 million 31 August 2014: 13.8 million.
In the reconciliation above, the effective tax rate of the Group was 7.2% 31 August 2014: 0.9%.
On 4 December 2013 the Group converted to a UKREIT.
As a result, the Group does not pay UK corporation tax on the profits and gains from qualifying rental business in the UK provided it meets certain conditions.
Nonqualifying profits and gains of the Group continue to be subject to corporation tax.
In order to retain REIT status, certain ongoing criteria must be maintained.
The main criteria are as follows: at the start of each accounting period, the assets of the tax exempt business must be at least 75% of the total value of the Groups assets: at least 75% of the Groups total profits must arise from the tax exempt business: and at least 90% of the income from tax exempt business must be distributed.
The Directors intend that the Group should continue as a REIT for the foreseeable future, with the result that deferred tax is no longer recognised on temporary differences relating to the property rental business which is within the REIT structure.
Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 87 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 August 2015 18.
Investment property The cost of the consolidated investment properties at 31 August 2015 was 1,000.1 million 31 August 2014: 1,032.9 million.
The carrying amount of investment property is the fair value of the property as determined by appropriately qualified independent valuers.
Valuations are based on what is determined to be the highest and best use.
When considering the highest and best use a valuer will consider, on a property by property basis, and in limited circumstances, in aggregation with other assets, its actual and potential uses which are physically, legally and financially viable.
Where the highest and best use differs from the existing use, the valuer will consider the cost and the likelihood of achieving and implementing this change in arriving at its valuation.
The fair value of the Groups properties for the year ended 31 August 2015 was assessed by the valuers in accordance with the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors RICS standards and IFRS 13.
The valuations performed by the independent valuers are reviewed internally by senior management and by the Audit and Risk Committee.
This includes discussion of the assumptions used by the external valuers, as well as a review of the resulting valuations.
Technique The fair value of the property portfolio has been determined using either a discounted cash flow or a yield capitalisation technique, whereby contracted and market rental values are capitalised at a market capitalisation rate.
The resulting valuations are crosschecked against the net initial yield and the fair market values per square foot derived from comparable recent market transactions.
The valuation technique described above is consistent with IFRS 13 and uses significant unobservable inputs.
Valuation techniques can change yeartoyear depending on prevailing circumstances and the propertys highest and best use at the balance sheet date.
The Group considers that all of its investment properties and assets held for sale fall within Level 3, as defined by IFRS 13 refer to Note 35.
Accordingly, there has been no transfer of properties within the fair value hierarchy in the financial year.
Sensitivity An increase or decrease in ERV will increase or decrease the fair value of the Groups investment properties.
An increase or decrease to the net initial yields and reversionary yields will decrease or increase the fair value of the Groups investment properties.
An increase or decrease in the estimated costs of the development will decrease or increase the fair value of the Groups investment properties under development.
There are interrelationships between the unobservable inputs as they are determined by market conditions: an increase in more than one input could magnify or mitigate the impact on the valuation.
The table below summarises the key unobservable inputs used in the valuation of the Groups whollyowned investment properties at 31 August 2015: Weighted Net initial yield Market value Lettable Average average weighted Net initial Average market 2 2 2 m area m rent per m lease length average yield range rent per m UK Retail 349.6 159,076 169.4 8.9 6.4 5.3%7.8% 175.6 UK Hotels 234.7 41,323 348.4 11.2 5.8 4.5%7.0% 364.7 UK Commercial 150.3 109,844 116.6 7.4 7.4 4.4%32.9% 98.1 1 Europe 188.5 104,428 122.4 4.8 5.7 1.8%16.8% 121.3 923.1 1 Net initial yield range for the European portfolio excludes The Hague and properties under development.
In accordance with IAS 40 Investment Property: Paragraph 14, judgement is needed to determine whether a property qualifies as an investment property.
The Group has developed criteria so that it can exercise its judgement consistently in recognising investment properties.
These include inter alia: property held for longterm capital appreciation, property owned or under Finance Leases and leased out under one or more operating leases: and property that is being constructed or developed for future use as an investment property.
The recognition and classification of property as investment property principally assures that the Group does not retain significant exposure to the variation in cash flows arising from the underlying operations of properties.
Investment property comprises a number of commercial and retail properties that are leased to third parties.
The hotel properties are held for capital appreciation and to earn rental income.
The properties have been let to RHML and RECML for a fixed rent which is subject to annual review.
The annual rent review takes into account the forecast EBITDA for the hotel portfolio when setting the revised rental level.
As detailed in the key judgements and estimates in Note 2.3.
3, aside from the payment of rental income to Redefine International P. L. C. which resets annually, and the Groups shareholding in RedefineBDL, Redefine International P. L. C. is not involved in the hotel management business and there are limited transactions between Redefine International P. L. C. and RHML and RECML.
As a result, Redefine International P. L. C. classifies the hotel properties as investment properties in line with IAS 40.
Property operating expenses in the consolidated income statement relate solely to income generating properties.
88 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Opening balance 892.5 643.9 Properties acquired during the year 27.0 113.1 Capitalised expenditure 4.4 3.8 Disposals during the year 45.4 24.0 disposals through the sale of property 33.9 24.0 disposals through the sale of subsidiaries 11.5 Impact of acquisition of subsidiaries Note 12 26.1 123.0 Foreign exchange movement in foreign operations 16.6 16.3 Net fair value gain on investment property 31.5 49.0 Transfer from assets held for sale Note 27 14.9 Closing balance 934.4 892.5 A reconciliation of investment property valuations to the consolidated balance sheet is shown below: 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Investment property at market value as determined by external valuers 923.1 927.8 Freehold 691.8 677.8 Leasehold 231.3 250.0 Adjustments for items presented separately on the balance sheet: add minimum payment under head leases separately included under borrowings Note 28 13.4 16.6 less lease incentives included in trade and other receivables Note 26 2.1 investment properties classified as assets held for sale Note 27 51.9 Carrying value of investment property 934.4 892.5 19.
Longterm receivables 1 Represented 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Amounts due from Mezzanine Capital Limited 1.6 Longterm receivables 1.6 1 The 2014 figure has been represented in the current year with 0.4 million now reported as Loans to joint ventures along with an amount of 0.8 million from Trade and other receivables from the 2014 Annual Report.
Investments at fair value The following table details the movement in investments designated at fair value: 1 Represented 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Opening balance 97.8 139.0 Movement in unrealised gains and losses on Cromwell 8.6 Consideration Disposal of Cromwell shares 80.2 35.7 Realised losses gains on sale of Cromwell shares Note 11 17.6 3.1 Closing balance 97.8 1 The 2014 figure has been represented in the current year with Derivative financial instruments now shown separately as included in Note 29.
The Group disposed of its shareholding of 172,833,576 securities in Cromwell on 31 August 2015 at a price of AUD1.00 per share.
The total consideration for the share disposal of AUD172.8 million 80.2 million is receivable at 31 August 2015 Note 26.
No capital gains tax arose on the disposal.
Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 89 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 August 2015 21.
Interests in joint ventures 1 Represented 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Opening balance 16.4 15.2 investment in joint ventures 15.2 15.2 loans to joint ventures 1.2 Increase in interest 38.2 1.2 investment in joint ventures 1.2 loans to joint ventures 37.0 1.2 Movements in investment balance 1.8 disposal of joint venture on acquisition of additional shareholding 2.6 equity accounted profit 5.5 3.2 foreign currency loss recognised through the foreign currency translation reserve 1.1 1.5 distribution received from joint ventures 3.6 1.7 Movements in loan balance 4.6 impairment of loans to joint ventures 3.8 repayments received 0.2 foreign currency loss recognised in the income statement 0.6 Closing balance 48.2 16.4 Investments in joint ventures 14.6 15.2 Loans to joint ventures 33.6 1.2 1 The 2014 figures have been represented in the current year with 1.2 million now reported as Loans to joint ventures.
This amount is made up of balances reported within Longterm receivables and Trade and other receivables in the 2014 Annual Report.
The Groups investments in joint ventures currently consist of the following: a.
50% in Pearl House Swansea Limited, a joint venture with Sandgate Properties Limited, which owns a long leasehold retail interest in Swansea, Wales the joint venture properties were sold on 11 August 2015 : b.
50% in Swansea Estates Limited, a joint venture with Sandgate Properties Limited, which owns a long leasehold retail interest in Swansea, Wales the joint venture properties were sold on 11 August 2015 : c. 50% in 26 The Esplanade No 1 Limited, a joint venture with Rimstone Limited, which ultimately owns an office building in St Helier, Jersey: d. 50.5% interest in RI Menora German Holdings S. a. r. l. a joint venture with Menora Mivtachim, which ultimately owns properties in Waldkraiburg, Hucklehoven and Kaiserslautern in Germany.
Notwithstanding the economic shareholding the contractual terms provide for joint control and so the Company is not deemed to control theentity: e. 49% interest in VBG Holdings S. a. r. l. a joint venture with Menora Mivtachim, which ultimately owns governmentlet properties in Dresden, Berlin, Stuttgart and Cologne, Germany.
Following an assessment of the rights of each shareholder under the shareholder agreement this entity is deemed to be a joint venture of the Group: f. 50% interest in Leopard Germany Holding 1 S. a. r. l. and Leopard German Property ED1, 2, 3 and 4 and ME1 and ME2 S. a. r. l. and ED2 GmbH & Co KG, a joint venture with Redefine Properties Ltd, the Companys largest shareholder.
These companies hold 56 retail properties in Germany comprising a mix of standalone supermarkets, foodstore anchored retail parks and cash and carry stores.
Collectively known as the Leopard Portfolio, the joint venture also includes two entities in which the Group previously held 100% ownership interest, Ciref Berlin 1 Limited and Ciref European Portfolio 2 Limited: and g. 50% in Ciref Crawley Limited, a joint venture with Graymont Limited.
The joint venture properties in Crawley, Surrey were sold on 20 November 2014.
RI Menora German Holdings S. a. r. l. and VBG Holdings S. a. r. l. both have accounting year ends of 31 December which differ from the year end of the Group, the purpose of which is to align with the year end of the joint venture partner, Menora Mivtachim.
Acquisition of joint ventures On 29 January 2015 the Group, in joint venture with Redefine Properties Ltd, the Companys largest shareholder, acquired an interest in Leopard Germany Holding 1 S. a. r. l. and Leopard German Property ED1, 2, 3 and 4 and ME1 and ME2 S. a. r. l. and ED2 GmbH & Co KG.
These companies hold 56 retail properties in Germany.
Consideration for the acquisition was 57.4 million 43.1 million which was funded equally by the Company and Redefine Properties Ltd.
The Companys investment in these joint ventures is in the form of: a. an interest in the share capital of the joint venture companies: and b. loans advanced to the joint venture entities.
These loans bear interest at between 4.75% and 7% and have remaining maturities of ten years.
Included in the Leopard Portfolio are two entities in which the Group previously held 100% ownership interest, Ciref Berlin 1 Limited and Ciref European Portfolio 2 Limited.
Now reported as part of jointly controlled entities, both have been accounted for as disposed subsidiaries during the year refer to Note 13.
Disposal of joint ventures On 19 December 2014, the Company acquired an additional 44.9% shareholding in Ciref Premium Holdings Limited previously named Ciref Nepi Holdings Limited from its joint venture partner, New Europe Property BVI Limited for a consideration of 3.6 million 2.8 million.
Ciref Premium Holdings Limited owns six properties in Germany the Premium Portfolio.
This acquisition brings the Groups interest in Ciref Premium Holdings Limited to 94.9%.
See Note 12 for further details of the acquisition.
The Group recognised a gain on the disposal of this joint venture of 0.4 million being the difference between the carrying value of the joint venture on the date of the disposal and the fair value of Groups share of net assets.
An amount of 0.2 million relating to the foreign currency translation reserve was also recycled to the income statement on sale of the Groups interest in the joint venture resulting in an overall gain of 0.6 million.
The investment in joint ventures includes investments at Nil value in the balance carried forward on 1 September 2014 which remain at nil at 31 August 2015.
90 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Summarised financial information The summarised financial information derived from the balance sheets of the material joint ventures are set out below: Ciref Recognised RI Menora Premium in Group VBG Holdings German Leopard Holdings financial S. a. r. l. Holdings S. a. r. l. Portfolio Limited Other statements m m m m m m Percentage ownership interest 49% 50.5% 50% 50% Activity Property Property Property Property investment investment investment investment Principal place of business Germany Germany Germany Germany Country of incorporation Luxembourg Luxembourg Luxembourg Cyprus 31 August 2015 Noncurrent assets 68.6 22.3 129.7 Cash at bank 0.8 0.1 3.7 Other current assets 6.1 0.7 0.3 Derivative assets 0.1 0.5 Noncurrent liabilities 50.5 13.3 64.0 Current liabilities 6.3 0.5 2.8 Derivative liabilities 0.8 0.3 Net assets 18.0 9.0 67.4 Group share of net assets 8.8 4.5 33.7 Fair value of retained joint venture interest Note 13 1.2 Carrying value of investment including loans 8.8 4.5 34.9 48.2 Revenue 6.0 1.5 5.2 0.5 Interest expense 1.2 0.6 2.7 0.6 Tax charge credit 0.5 2.0 0.6 Foreign currency translation 0.7 0.3 0.6 Net gain loss 7.3 2.5 4.8 1.4 Attributable to the Group equity accounted profits 3.5 1.3 0.7 5.5 Attributable to the Group impairment of loans 2.6 0.7 0.5 3.8 Distributions 3.3 0.4 1.4 31 August 2014 Noncurrent assets 71.6 22.0 26.1 Cash at bank 1.1 0.3 0.5 Other current assets 4.9 0.6 0.5 Noncurrent liabilities 55.5 15.2 18.5 Current liabilities 2.7 0.4 1.8 Derivative liabilities 0.4 0.3 0.8 Net assets 19.0 7.0 6.0 Group share of net assets 9.3 3.6 3.0 Carrying value of investment including loans 9.3 3.6 3.0 0.5 16.4 Revenue 6.7 1.7 2.1 Interest expense 1.3 0.5 1.3 Tax charge 0.2 0.2 Foreign currency translation 2.1 1.1 0.2 Net gain 5.0 0.3 1.1 Attributable to the Group 2.4 0.2 0.6 3.2 Distributions 2.9 0.5 Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 91 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 August 2015 22.
Investments in associates 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Opening balance 8.0 Increase of investment in associates 7.3 Equity accounted profits 0.6 0.4 Distributions received from associates 0.6 Gain on dilution of interest 0.3 Closing balance 8.0 8.0 Summarised financial information Investments in associates comprise the 25.3% shareholding in RedefineBDL.
The Group holds significant influence but not control despite sharing a common Director.
Thesummarised financial information derived from the balance sheets of associates is set out below: 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Percentage ownership interest 25.3% 25.3% Activity Hotel Hotel management management Principal place of business United United Kingdom Kingdom Country of incorporation BVI BVI Noncurrent assets 6.7 4.2 Intangible assets 28.1 28.1 Cash at bank 8.1 4.5 Other current assets 6.4 5.2 Longterm liabilities 0.8 0.8 Current liabilities 17.0 9.7 Net assets 31.5 31.5 Group share of net assets 8.0 8.0 Carrying value of investment 8.0 8.0 Revenue 8.3 8.3 Interest income 0.5 0.5 Interest expense 0.5 0.8 Taxation 0.3 0.5 Net profit 2.5 2.0 1 Group share of net profit 0.6 0.4 1 Adjusted for period of ownership and varying ownership interest.
Intangible assets 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Opening balance 1.7 Impact of acquisition of subsidiaries 24.7 Write down of intangible assets 22.8 Amortisation 0.2 0.2 Closing balance 1.5 1.7 Intangible assets were recognised on the acquisition of RIMH and represented the fair value of the advisory agreements acquired by the Group.
The value attributed to the Groups agreement with RIPML of 22.8 million has been treated as a payment to avoid making future payments under the contract and was fully written down in the prior year.
The value attributed to the contracts between RIMH and third parties including joint ventures of the Group and the noncontrolling element of properties held by the Group of 1.9 million is being amortised on a straightline basis over the remaining terms of the contracts, which have an average life of eight years.
92 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information 24.
Property, plant and equipment 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Opening balance 0.2 Additions 0.2 Depreciation 0.1 Closing balance 0.1 0.2 25.
Cash and cash equivalents 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Cash and cash equivalents consists of the following: Unrestricted cash balances 85.7 83.8 Bank balances 65.3 63.7 Call deposits 20.4 20.1 Restricted cash balances 7.9 6.6 Cash and cash equivalents 93.6 90.4 At 31 August 2015, there was 7.9 million 31 August 2014: 6.6 million of cash and cash equivalents to which the Group did not have instant access.
This balance includes 5.3 million held with Aviva in relation to the developments in Birchwood Warrington Limited and the proposed developments in Grand Arcade Wigan Limited and Weston Favell Limited 31 August 2014: 5.5 million.
The remaining 2.6 million 31 August 2014: 1.1 million restricted cash balance relates to rental income received in restricted bank accounts out of which interest and other related expenses are paid.
At 31 August 2015, trade and other payables include accrued interest on bank debt facilities of 2.0 million 31 August 2014: 1.8 million against which the restricted cash balances will be applied.
Trade and other receivables 1 Represented 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Rent receivable and prepayments net of provision of 0.4 million 2014: 0.3 million 3.1 3.6 Consideration receivable in respect of Cromwell disposal proceeds 80.2 Consideration receivable in respect of Swiss disposal proceeds 22.4 Consideration outstanding on disposed subsidiaries 1.0 6.7 Amounts receivable from related parties Note 36 28.9 3.6 Net receivables Mezzanine Capital Limited 2.3 Lease incentives 2.1 1.3 Service charges recoverable from tenants 0.5 0.5 Sundry receivables 1.0 1.4 VAT receivable 0.2 Interest receivable 0.8 Trade and other receivables 139.2 20.4 1 The 2014 figure has been represented in the current year with 0.8 million now reported as Loans to joint ventures along with an amount of 0.4 million from Longterm receivables from the 2014 Annual Report.
Assets held for sale 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Opening balance 51.9 57.3 Capitalised expenditure 0.1 Additions 8.8 Transfers to investment property Note 18 14.9 Disposals during the year 43.9 6.3 Net fair value loss gain on assets held for sale 1.9 0.8 Closing balance 51.9 Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 93 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 August 2015 27.
Assets held for sale continued Assets held for sale include the following property assets: 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Delta 51.9 Assets held for sale 51.9 The Company restructured the 114.6 million Delta facility in October 2012 requiring it to meet certain disposal targets.
In line with this agreement, the Company disposed of ten regional office assets within the Delta portfolio for an aggregate consideration of 35.1 million on 7 October 2014.
The proceeds of these sales were utilised to reduce the Delta facility loan balance.
In April 2015, the Group then acquired the remaining three Delta properties from the security pool with the related proceeds applied to the repayment of debt and the assets being transferred to investment property, as also referenced in Note 18.
The Group also acquired and disposed of two hotels during the year.
These were held in subsidiaries and due to the shortterm nature of the investments were classified as assets held for sale.
Their disposal on the 28 August 2015 resulted in a net gain of 0.6 million.
Borrowings 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Noncurrent Bank loans 506.6 528.2 Less: deferred finance costs 1.8 1.9 1 Aviva profit share 3.0 3.2 Finance Leases 12.7 15.6 Total noncurrent borrowings 520.5 545.1 Current Bank loans 38.6 97.8 Less: deferred finance costs 1.1 1.5 1 Aviva profit share 1.2 2.4 Finance Leases 0.7 1.0 Total current borrowings 39.4 99.7 Total borrowings 559.9 644.8 1 As part of the terms of the Aviva debt restructure in 2013, Aviva have retained the right to participate in 50% of the income and capital growth generated by Grand Arcade Wigan afterall costs, expenses and interest.
This profit share is deemed to be a financial liability since it varies in relation to a nonfinancial variable specific to a party to the contract.
Ithasbeen recognised initially at fair value and thereafter will be carried at amortised cost.
a Loans All of the Groups loans and borrowings are secured over investment property and are measured at amortised cost.
Exposure to credit, interest rate and currency risks arises in the normal course of the Groups business.
Derivative financial instruments are used to reduce exposure to fluctuations in interest rates.
Refer to Note 29 for further details.
31 August 2015 31 August 2014 Carrying Nominal Carrying Nominal value value value value m m m m Noncurrent liabilities Bank loans 506.6 527.5 528.2 551.9 Less: deferred finance costs 1.8 1.8 1.9 1.9 Total noncurrent loan borrowings 504.8 525.7 526.3 550.0 The maturity of noncurrent loan borrowings is as follows: Between one year and five years 228.2 238.8 99.7 111.0 More than five years 278.4 288.7 428.5 440.9 506.6 527.5 528.2 551.9 Current liabilities Bank loans 38.6 40.8 97.8 100.6 Less: deferred finance costs 1.1 1.1 1.5 1.5 Total current loan borrowings 37.5 39.7 96.3 99.1 Loan borrowings 542.3 565.4 622.6 649.1 Certain borrowing agreements contain financial and other covenants that, if contravened, could alter the repayment profile.
94 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information b Finance Leases Obligations under Finance Leases at the reporting dates are as follows: 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Gross Finance Lease liabilities repayable: Not later than one year 0.8 0.8 Later than one year not later than five years 3.0 3.5 Later than five years 90.7 95.6 94.5 99.9 Less: finance charges allocated to future periods 81.1 83.3 Present value of minimum lease payments 13.4 16.6 Present value of Finance Lease liabilities repayable: Not later than one year 0.8 0.8 Later than one year not later than five years 2.4 3.0 Later than five years 10.2 12.8 Present value of minimum lease payments 13.4 16.6 Finance Lease liabilities are in respect of leasehold interests in investment and development property.
They are effectively secured obligations, as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
Derivative financial instruments The Group enters into interest rate swaps and interest rate cap agreements to manage the risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
Interest rate swaps and caps are employed by the Group to manage the interest rate profile of financial liabilities.
In accordance with the terms of borrowing arrangements, the Group has entered into interest rate swap agreements to convert borrowings from floating to fixed interest rates thus eliminating potential future exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Likewise, interest rate caps are used to protect the Group and limit the exposure to any significant increases in the current low interest rates in the market.
It is the Groups policy that no economic trading in derivatives is undertaken.
31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Derivative assets Noncurrent Interest rate swap assets 0.2 Interest rate cap asset 1.8 2.2 Derivative financial instruments 1.8 2.4 Derivative liabilities Noncurrent Interest rate swap liabilities 3.4 2.2 Derivative financial instruments 3.4 2.2 Derivative liabilities Current Interest rate swap liabilities 0.9 3.1 0.9 3.1 The Groups interest rate cap asset is held at a rate of 3% and matures in November 2021.
Interest rate swap liabilities have been secured with maturities from November2015 until February 2020, at a range of rates from 0.7% 3.3%.
Trade and other payables 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Rent received in advance 3.1 3.4 Trade creditors 2.8 2.5 Amounts payable to related parties Note 36 0.4 0.7 Accrued interest 2.0 1.8 Taxes payable 9.8 4.6 Other payables 5.5 9.8 Trade and other payables 23.6 22.8 Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 95 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 August 2015 31.
Share capital and share premium Authorised Ordinary shares of 8 pence each 31 August 2014: 8 pence each.
Authorised Number share capital of shares m at 31 August 2014 1,800,000,000 144.0 at 31 August 2015 1,800,000,000 144.0 Issued, called up and fully paid Share Number Share Capital Premium of Shares m m at 31 August 2013 967,963,757 77.4 188.7 Shares for cash, consideration for acquisitions and to settle incentive fee 302,809,651 24.3 114.0 Scrip dividends 25,323,941 2.0 11.8 at 31 August 2014 1,296,097,349 103.7 314.5 Scrip dividend December 2014 23,811,486 1.9 9.8 Scrip dividend June 2015 23,008,358 1.8 11.2 Share placement 131,414,138 10.5 59.5 at 31 August 2015 1,474,331,331 117.9 395.0 Share capital and share premium In October 2014 the Company declared a second interim dividend of 1.70 pence per share in respect of the six months ended 31 August 2014 and offered Shareholders an election to receive either a scrip dividend by way of an issue of new Redefine International shares credited as fully paid up or a cash dividend.
The Company received election forms from Shareholders holding 748.7 million ordinary shares of 8 pence each representing a 58% take up by Shareholders, for which 23.8 million scrip dividend shares were issued.
In March 2015, the Company completed a placing of 131.4 million new ordinary shares of 8 pence each for an aggregate nominal value of 10.5 million.
The placing generated proceeds of 70.0 million net of costs.
In April 2015, the Company declared an interim dividend of 1.60 pence per share in respect of the six months ended 28 February 2015 and again offered Shareholders an election to receive either a scrip dividend by way of an issue of new Redefine International shares credited as fully paid up or a cash dividend.
The Company received election forms from Shareholders holding 866.4 million ordinary shares of 8 pence each representing a 60% take up by Shareholders, for which 23.0 million scrip dividend shares were issued.
Reserves Reverse acquisition reserve The reverse acquisition reserve of 134.3 million arose on the reverse acquisition of Wichford PLC subsequently renamed Redefine International P. L. C. by RIHL and comprises the difference between the capital structure of the Company and RIHL.
Other reserves Sharebased payment reserve The sharebased payment reserve at 31 August 2015 of 1.0 million 31 August 2014: 0.5 million arises from conditional awards of shares in the Company made to certain Executive Directors.
The awards will vest on the third anniversary of grant, subject to market based performance conditions.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve represents exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations.
Sharebased payments The Groups sharebased payments are all equitysettled and comprise the LongTerm Performance Share Plan PSP for Executive Directors and the Restricted Stock Plan for employees.
In accordance with IFRS 2 Sharebased Payments the fair value of equitysettled sharebased payments to employees is determined at grant date, and is expensed on a straightline basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to the sharebased payments reserve.
The Company utilises the MonteCarlo simulation valuation model to determine the fair value at grant date.
Number of conditional share awards 000s LongTerm Performance Share Plan 2015 2014 Awards brought forward 3,970 Awarded during the year 3,400 3,970 Forfeited during the year 1,120 Awards carried forward 6,250 3,970 Exercisable at 31 August 96 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 Sharebased payment reserve m m Opening balance 0.5 Sharebased payment expense in the year 0.5 0.5 Closing balance 1.0 0.5 The PSP for Executive Directors authorises the Remuneration Committee to make grants of PSP shares with a face value of up to 250% of salary to participants.
Awards of PSP shares are subject to performance measures over three years.
Half of the award will vest dependent on the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR equalling, or exceeding, the TSR relative to that of each of the members of the FTSE EPRA REIT Developed Europe Index the Index and the other half of an award will be subject to a performance target which measures the Companys TSR relative to that of the members of a bespoke comparator group the Comparator Group.
Vesting is on a sliding scale between 25% for median performance and 100% for upper quartile performance, with 0% vesting below a median performance.
For the marketbased TSR awards, theeffect of the performance conditions is incorporated into the grant date fair value of the award.
No subsequent adjustment to the charge can be made to reflect the outcome of the performance test.
Adjustments can, however, be made for participants who leave the scheme before vesting.
The shares outstanding under the scheme are to be issued for nominal consideration provided that performance conditions are met.
On 29 November 2013, 4.0 million shares were granted for the performance period from 1 September 2013 to 31 August 2016.
The share price on 1 September 2013 was 42.75 pence and the fair value on the grant date was 1.4 million.
On 3 February 2015, 3.4 million shares were granted for the performance period from 1 September 2014 to 31 August 2017.
The share price on 1 September 2015 was 52.4pence and the fair value on the grant date was 0.9 million.
To calculate the fair value of sharebased long term incentives, it was necessary to make a number of assumptions.
For the purpose of the valuation performed, use was made of the Companys LSE listing in developing share price volatility, dividend yield and index correlation assumptions.
The table below set out the assumptions made: Award year Assumptions 2015 2014 Volatility 22.6% 24.4% Riskfree rate 0.76% 0.89% Correlation of the Comparator Group 23.2% 27.6% Correlation of the Index companies 29.6% 41.9% The fair value calculation assumes that PSP shares will be awarded at 46% 2014: 65% of the face value at the date of grant for the Comparator Group and at 46% 2014:73% for the Index.
Financial risk management The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: credit risk: liquidity risk: and market risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Groups management of capital.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the consolidated financial statements.
The Groups Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Board is responsible for developing and monitoring the Groups risk management policies.
The Groups risk management policies require the identification and analysis of the risks faced by the Group, the setting of appropriate risk limits and controls, and the monitoring of risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly and adjusted to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group Audit Committee oversees managements monitoring of compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
a Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from tenants.
The Board of Directors monitors the concentration of credit risk with individual tenants and counterparties across the portfolio.
An allowance is made where there is an identified loss event which is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the future cash flows.
The Group also limits its exposure to credit risk by only investing in liquid deposits and only with counterparties that have a credit rating of A or A2 or above from Standard&Poors or Moodys, except where specific exemptions are granted by the Board.
Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 97 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 August 2015 34.
Financial risk management continued a Credit risk continued Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit risk exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Longterm receivables 1.6 Loans to joint ventures 33.6 1.2 Derivative financial instruments 1.8 2.4 Trade and other receivables 139.2 20.4 Cash and cash equivalents 93.6 90.4 268.2 116.0 The concentration of credit risk per segment is set out below: UK Commercial 8.4 9.9 UK Retail 11.4 11.8 Europe 66.0 7.9 Hotels 30.5 3.1 1 Other 151.9 83.3 268.2 116.0 1 Includes 66.0 million 2014: 41.1 million of cash held by the Company and its subsidiary, RIHL.
Included in Longterm receivables, Loans to joint ventures and Trade and other receivables are debtors with the following age profile: 2015 2014 Gross Impairment Net Gross Impairment Net m m m m m m Not past due 172.8 172.8 19.2 0.3 18.9 Past due 0120 days 0.7 0.7 Past due120 days 0.4 0.4 3.6 3.6 Bad debt provisions of 0.4 million 2014: 0.3 million have also been booked against rent receivable balances as detailed in Note 26.
These provisions are specific to tenants that went into administration.
b Liquidity risk The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient resources to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient rental income to service its financial obligations when they fall due.
The monitoring of liquidity risk is assisted by the monthly review of financial covenants imposed by financial institutions, such as interest and loan to value covenant ratios.
Renegotiation of loans takes place in advance of any potential covenant breaches insofar as the factors are within the control of the Board.
In periods of increased market uncertainty the Board will ensure sufficient cash resources are available for potential loan repayments cash deposits as may be required by financial institutions.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities including interest payments: Carrying Contractual 6 months 6 to 12 1 to 2 2 to 5 More than amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years m m m m m m m 31 August 2015 Financial liabilities Bank loans 542.3 793.1 46.9 73.7 70.7 160.7 441.1 Aviva profit share 4.2 10.2 0.3 0.3 0.6 1.8 7.2 Finance Leases 13.4 94.5 0.4 0.4 0.7 2.3 90.7 Trade and other payables 23.6 23.6 23.6 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps 4.3 8.2 2.7 1.2 2.1 2.2 587.8 929.6 73.9 75.6 74.1 167.0 539.0 31 August 2014 Financial liabilities Bank loans 626.0 882.0 108.2 13.8 156.3 145.6 458.3 Aviva profit share 5.6 10.9 0.3 0.3 0.6 1.8 7.8 Finance Leases 16.6 100.0 0.4 0.4 0.8 2.6 95.6 Trade and other payables 22.8 22.8 22.8 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps 5.3 8.1 1.5 1.5 1.9 2.9 0.3 676.3 1,023.8 133.2 16.0 159.6 152.9 562.0 98 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information c Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its investments in financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments in the ordinary course of business, and incurs financial liabilities, in order to manage market risks.
The Board of Directors receives reports on a quarterly basis with regards to currency exposures as well as interest rate spreads and takes the necessary steps to hedge limit the risk the Group is exposed to.
The Group does not apply hedge accounting.
Currency risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the Euro EUR, Australian Dollar AUD and Swiss Franc CHF.
Following disposals during the year the Group no longer has exposure to AUD or CHF.
Foreign exchange risk arises from current exposures the Group has to foreign currencies, recognised monetary assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
The Groups investments in foreign subsidiaries and associates are not hedged as the currency positions are considered to be long term in nature.
Structural risk The investments in subsidiaries in Germany, the Netherlands and Switzerland represent structural currency risk as these investments have functional currencies of Euro and Swiss Franc respectively.
31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Assets EUR 320.9 212.1 CHF 23.6 24.6 Liabilities EUR 174.9 171.4 CHF 17.7 15.6 Transactional risk The Groups income from incomeproducing rental properties is denominated in the same currencies as the loans that are financing those properties.
Receivables arising on the Cromwell disposal and sale of the Swiss properties are considered to be very short term.
Sensitivity analysis A 5% strengthening in the GBP exchange rate against the following currencies at year end would have decreased equity and profit by the amounts shown below.
Thisanalysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2014.
Income Equity Statement m m 31 August 2015 EUR 4.7 0.7 CHF 0.2 AUD 31 August 2014 EUR 1.4 CHF 0.4 AUD 3.3 A 5% weakening in the GBP exchange rate against the above currencies at year end would have had the equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
The Groups total net exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates at the reporting date was as above.
This reflects the total financial and nonfinancial assets and liabilities in foreign currencies.
The following exchange rates were applied during the year: Average rate Year end rate 2015 2014 2015 2014 EUR 1.346 1.217 1.370 1.262 CHF 1.482 1.491 1.484 1.522 AUD 1.963 1.801 2.156 1.776 Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 99 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 August 2015 34.
Financial risk management continued c Market risk continued Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to the risk of the changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Groups longterm debt obligations with floating interest rates.
The Group uses interest rate derivatives to mitigate its exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
At the year end, as a result of the use of interest rate swaps and caps, the majority of the Groups borrowings were at fixed interest rates.
The Groups EPRA earnings has limited exposure to interest rate fluctuations until the repayment dates of the loans for which the interest rate swaps and caps have been arranged.
Please see Note 29 for further details on the Groups interest rate swap and cap agreements.
Commercial property price risk The Board draws attention to the risks associated with commercial property investments.
Although over the longterm property is considered a low risk asset, investors must be aware that significant short and mediumterm risk factors are inherent in the asset class.
Investments in property are relatively illiquid and usually more difficult to realise than listed equities or bonds and this restricts the Groups ability to realise value in cash in the short term.
Fair values Basis for determining fair values The Group measures fair values using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurements.
Level 1: quoted market price unadjusted in an active market for an identical instrument.
Level 2: valuation techniques based on observable inputs, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
This category includes instruments valued using: quoted market prices in active markets for similar instruments: quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are considered less than active: or other valuation techniques where all significant inputs are directly or indirectly observable from market data.
Level 3: valuation techniques using significant unobservable inputs.
This category includes all instruments where the valuation technique includes inputs not based on observable data and the unobservable inputs have a significant effect on the instruments valuation.
This category includes instruments that are valued based on quoted prices for similar instruments where significant unobservable adjustments or assumptions are required to reflect differences between the instruments.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities that are traded in active markets are based on quoted market prices or dealer price quotations.
For all other financial instruments the Group determines fair values using net present value and discounted cash flow models and comparisons to similar instruments for which market observable prices exist.
Assumptions and inputs used in valuation techniques include riskfree and benchmark interest rates, credit spreads and other premia used in estimating discount rates, foreign currency exchange rates and expected price volatilities and correlations.
The objective of valuation techniques is to arrive at a fair value determination that reflects the price of the financial instrument at the reporting date that would have been determined by market participants acting at arms length.
The Group uses widely recognised valuation models for determining the fair value of common and more simple financial instruments such as interest rate swaps that use only observable market data and require little management judgement and estimation.
Observable prices and model inputs are usually available in the market for simple over the counter derivatives, e. g. interest rate swaps.
Availability of observable market prices and model inputs reduces the need for management judgement and estimation and also reduces the uncertainty associated with determination of fair values.
Availability of observable market prices and inputs varies depending on the products and markets and is prone to changes based on specific events and general conditions in the financial markets.
The tables below present information about the Groups assets and liabilities measured at fair value as of 31 August 2015 and 31 August 2014: Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value m m m m 31 August 2015 Financial assets Derivative financial assets Note 29 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.8 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities Note 29 4.3 4.3 4.3 4.3 31 August 2014 Financial assets Designated at fair value through profit or loss 97.8 97.8 Derivative financial assets Note 29 2.4 2.4 97.8 2.4 100.2 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities Note 29 5.3 5.3 5.3 5.3 No financial instruments were transferred between levels during the year.
In 2014, the now disposed of investment in Cromwell was categorised as a Level 1 investment and priced using quoted prices in an active market.
Interest rate swaps and caps have been categorised as Level 2 as although they are priced using directly observable inputs, the instruments are not traded in an active market.
As stated in Note 18, the Group considers that all of its investment properties and any assets held for sale fall within Level 3.
100 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information The following table analyses within the fair value hierarchy the Groups assets and liabilities not measured at fair value but for which fair value is disclosed: Total Carrying value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value m m m m m 31 August 2015 Loan borrowings 542.3 557.8 557.8 31 August 2014 Loan borrowings 622.6 625.1 625.1 The fair value of loan borrowings has been determined based on discounting the cash flows under the relevant agreements at a market interest rate for similar debt instruments.
The market interest rate has been determined having regard to the term, duration and security arrangements of the relevant loans and an estimation of the current rates charged in the market for similar instruments issued to companies of similar sizes.
For longterm receivables, loans to joint ventures, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, Finance Leases and trade and other payables, it is considered that their carrying values are deemed to be a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Related party transactions Related parties of the Group include associate undertakings and joint ventures, Directors and key management personnel and connected parties, the major shareholder Redefine Properties Limited as well as entities connected through common directorships.
31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Trading transactions Rental income received from RedefineBDL 13.3 11.4 Interest receivable from Redefine Hotel Holdings Limited noncontrolling shareholder 0.9 0.9 Interest receivable from Leopard Portfolio 1.4 Interest receivable from RedefineBDL 0.1 Interest payable to Coronation Group Investments Limited 0.4 Profit on disposal of assets held for sale receivable from International Hotel Group Limited 0.6 Fee income from joint ventures 0.8 Portfolio management fees charged by Redefine International Property Management Limited 0.3 Portfolio management fees charged by Redefine International Management Holdings Limited previously Redefine International Fund Managers 0.2 Portfolio management fees charged by Redefine International Fund Managers Europe Limited 0.3 Amounts receivable Redefine Hotel Holdings Limited noncontrolling shareholder 13.3 International Hotel Group Limited 5.7 RedefineBDL 8.4 4.1 VBG Holdings S. a. r. l. 0.7 Leopard Portfolio shareholder loan 33.6 Leopard Portfolio trading loan 0.8 Pearl House Swansea Limited 0.5 Swansea Estates Limited 0.1 Amounts payable 26 The Esplanade No 1 Limited 0.2 RI Menora German Holdings S. a. r. l. 0.2 VBG Holdings S. a. r. l. 0.7 Share transactions Redefine Properties Limited 21.3 Directors The remuneration paid to NonExecutive Directors for the year ended 31 August 2015 was 0.3 million which represents Directors Fees only 31 August 2014: 0.3 million.
The remuneration paid to Executive Directors for the year ended 31 August 2015 was 1.7 million, representing salaries, benefits and bonuses 31 August 2014: 1.3 million.
3.4 million contingent share awards were issued to Executive Directors during the year 31 August 2014: 4.0 million.
The sharebased payment charge associated with the contingent share awards was 0.5 million 31 August 2014: 0.5 million.
Executive Directors represent key management personnel.
Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 101 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 August 2015 37.
Earnings per share and headline earnings per share Earnings per share is calculated on the weighted average number of shares in issue and the profit attributable to Shareholders.
31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 70.6 95.2 Number of ordinary shares in issue 1,474.3 1,296.1 weighted average 1,383.3 1,192.3 diluted weighted average 1,384.9 1,192.3 Earnings per share pence basic 5.1p 8.0p diluted 5.1p 8.0p Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 70.6 95.2 Group Adjustments: Net fair value gain on investment property and assets held for sale 29.6 49.8 Write down and amortisation of intangibles 25.8 Capital gains tax on disposal 3.2 1.7 Fair value loss on investment in Cromwell 17.6 5.9 Fair value movement of derivative financial instruments 0.8 1.0 Deferred tax adjustments 2.2 4.2 Joint venture adjustments: Net fair value gain on investment property and assets held for sale 4.0 0.2 Fair value movement of derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.8 Net derivative termination costs 1.1 Noncontrolling interest adjustments: Net fair value gain on investment property and assets held for sale 4.0 6.0 Fair value movement of derivative financial instruments 0.2 0.3 1 EPRA adjusted Earnings 64.4 81.9 1 EPRA adjusted Earnings per share pence 4.7p 6.9p 1 EPRA adjusted Earnings 64.4 81.9 Straightlining of reverse premiums and other 5.9 1.1 Amortisation of debt issue costs 1.5 2.7 Cromwell dividends to date of disposal 1.3 Net Mezzanine Capital interest 1.3 Gain on extinguishment acquisition of debt 29.8 44.9 Delta and Gamma nondistributable earnings 0.4 1.2 Hague nondistributable earnings 0.9 Other nondistributable equity accounted profits and losses 3.5 0.2 Noncontrolling interest on above 1.1 1.8 Underlying distributable earnings 44.4 39.1 Underlying distributable earnings per share pence 3.2p 3.3p Dividend per share pence 3.25p 3.20p First interim dividend per share pence 1.60p 1.50p Second interim dividend per share pence 1.65p 1.70p 1 The 2014 figures have been restated to remove the gain arising on extinguishment of debt and other items inline with EPRA Reporting Best Practice Recommendations December2014.
Headline earnings per share is calculated in accordance with Circular 2 2013 issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants SAICA, a requirement of the Groups JSE listing.
This measure is not a requirement of IFRS.
102 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 70.6 95.2 Adjustments: Gain on bargain purchase of subsidiary 0.2 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 0.3 Gain on disposal of assets held for sale 0.6 28.1 44.1 Net fair value gain on investment property 29.6 49.8 Deferred taxation 1.5 0.1 Effect of noncontrolling interest on above 4.0 6.0 Net fair value losses in joint ventures 4.0 0.2 Gain on disposal of joint venture 0.6 Impairment of goodwill 2.0 Write down and amortisation of intangible assets 23.0 Reversal of impairments 1.9 1 Headline earnings attributable to equity holders of the Parent 41.4 74.2 Headline earnings per share pence 1 basic 3.0p 6.2p 1 diluted 3.0p 6.2p 1 The 2014 figures have been restated to calculate headline earnings, not adjusting for any gain arising on extinguishment of debt or debt restructure.
Net asset value per share 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Net assets attributable to equity holders of the Parent 598.0 481.1 Number of ordinary shares 1,474.3 1,296.1 Diluted number of shares 1,475.9 1,296.1 Net asset value per share pence : basic 40.6p 37.1p diluted 40.5p 37.1p Net assets attributable to equity holders of the Parent 598.0 481.1 Group adjustments: Fair value of derivative financial instruments 4.3 5.3 Deferred tax adjustments 2.2 0.7 Joint venture adjustments: Fair value of derivative financial instruments 0.2 0.9 Deferred tax adjustments 0.2 0.3 EPRA adjusted NAV 604.9 488.3 EPRA adjusted, diluted NAV per share pence 41.0p 37.7p Group adjustments: Fair value of derivative financial instruments 4.3 5.3 Deferred tax adjustments 2.2 0.7 Joint venture adjustments: Fair value of derivative financial instruments 0.2 0.9 Deferred tax adjustments 0.2 0.3 EPRA adjusted NNNAV 598.0 481.1 EPRA adjusted, diluted NNNAV per share pence 40.5p 37.1p Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 103 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 August 2015 39.
Noncontrolling interests The following table summarises the information relating to the Groups only subsidiary that has a material NCI, Redefine Hotel Holdings Limited, before any : 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 m m Noncontrolling interests % 28.95% 28.95% Investment property and other noncurrent assets 223.6 182.9 Current assets 8.3 0.7 Noncurrent liabilities 109.7 93.5 Current liabilities 2.4 3.7 Net assets 119.8 86.4 Carrying amount of noncontrolling interests 34.7 25.0 Revenue 13.3 11.4 Profit 22.1 22.2 Profit attributable to noncontrolling interest 6.4 7.2 Net decrease in cash 0.1 0.2 40.
Other movements in noncontrolling interests 31 August 2015 31 August 2014 Non Non Retained controlling Retained controlling earnings interest earnings interest m m m m Financial assets 1 Acquisition of NCI 0.2 6.2 2 Decrease in NCI 0.2 0.1 3 Increase in NCI regarding Redefine Hotel Holdings Limited 3.5 16.7 3.3 0.2 10.4 1 During the year ended 31 August 2014 the Group acquired the RIMH group.
At that point 10% of Redefine International Fund Managers Europe Limited RIFME was held by noncontrolling interests and so on acquisition the NCI was recognised based on their proportionate interest in the assets and liabilities of RIFME refer to Note 12.
Subsequently the Group acquired the remaining 10% of the issued share capital.
This acquisition was settled by the issue of 444,754 shares of 8 pence each in the share capital of the Company resulting in a loss on the acquisition of noncontrolling interests of 0.2 million.
The Company through its 71% held subsidiary Redefine Hotel Holdings Limited acquired the remaining 40% of the issued shares in BNRI Earls Court Limited BNRI for a purchase consideration of 6.3 million.
This resulted in a gain on the acquisition of noncontrolling interests of 0.2 million.
2 The decrease in noncontrolling interests relates to the repayment of certain shareholder loans by Ciref Europe Limited.
3 The increase in noncontrolling interests in Redefine Hotel Holdings Limited arose as a result of the capitalisation of certain loans given to that company by the noncontrolling Shareholders and the issue of additional shares in the entity to them.
This was met in equal proportion by the controlling Shareholders.
104 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information 41.
Cash flow from operations 31 August 31 August 2015 2014 Note m m Cash flows from operating activities Profit before taxation 84.0 101.9 Adjustments for: Straight lining of rental income 0.1 1.0 Investment income 5 7.5 10.1 Depreciation 0.1 Impairment of goodwill 9 2.0 Gain on extinguishment acquisition of debt 10 29.8 44.9 Net loss gain from financial assets and liabilities 11 16.9 0.8 Gain on bargain purchase of subsidiary 12 0.2 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 13 0.3 Equity accounted profit 14 6.1 3.9 Net fair value gain on investment property and assets held for sale 18, 27 29.6 49.8 Gain on disposal of joint venture 21 0.6 Impairment of loans to joint ventures 21 3.8 Write down and amortisation of intangible asset 23 0.2 23.0 Gain on disposal of assets held for sale 27 0.6 Interest income 15 2.8 8.0 Interest expense 16 30.3 42.3 Foreign exchange gain 2.5 0.6 Sharebased payments PSP 33 0.5 0.5 Cash generated by operations 56.5 52.6 Changes in working capital 2.2 1.0 Cash flow from operations 54.3 51.6 42.
Contingencies, guarantees and capital commitments At 31 August 2015, the Group was contractually committed to 13.7 million 31 August 2014: 8.5 million of future expenditure towards the development and enhancement of investment property.
Further consideration, being a share in the potential uplift in property values following redevelopment, may be payable in respect of the CMC acquisition specifically the acquisition of the Ingolstadt and Hamburg properties.
This is payable within three years of the completion date if certain conditions are met.
Based on the facts as at 31August 2015 the outflow of economic benefits is not probable and so no provision has been made for any potential future outflow.
As part of the Aviva debt restructure in 2013, Aviva have the right to a maximum of 50% of any future sale proceeds, generated by a sale of the Grand Arcade Wigan, inexcess of the outstanding balance of the related debt at the date of valuation.
Aviva also have an option to participate in the capital appreciation of the property once the market value exceeds 90.0 million, which they have not exercised.
At the balance sheet date, a maximum contingent liability of 14.6 million would arise as a result of theserights.
Subsequent events On 7 September 2015 the Group, through its whollyowned subsidiary Redefine AUK Holdings Limited, exchanged contracts to acquire the AUK Portfolio of 20 investment properties for 490 million, excluding transaction costs.
Due to the nature and size of the transaction shareholder approval was sought and was received at an Extraordinary General Meeting on 25 September 2015.
The acquisition is planned to complete in three phases, the first consisting of one property valued at 52.5 million which did not require shareholder approval completed on 7September 2015.
The second consisting of nine properties with a combined value of 203.5 million completed on 2 October 2015.
The final phase, comprising ten properties with a combined value of 233.7 million is due to complete in March 2016.
The portfolio consists primarily of offices and retail parks and all properties are located in the United Kingdom.
A new 303.0 million facility was secured with a syndicate of four UK banks and initially drawn down to 155.0 million on 2 October 2015.
On 14 October 2015, the Company acquired, by way of private placement, 3.8 million shares in a newly listed entity, International Hotel Group Limited for 3.8 million.
Onthedate of listing this represented 25.35% of the entitys issued share capital.
Dividends During the year ended 31 August 2015, the second interim dividend of 1.7 pence per share for the year ended 31 August 2014 was distributed, as well as the interim dividend of 1.6 pence per share for the period ended 28 February 2015.
The 2015 interim dividend was settled partly in cash and partly through the issue of scrip dividends.
The Directors have declared a second interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 August 2015 of 1.65 pence per share.
Payment will be made on 4 December 2015 to Shareholders on the register at 20 November 2015.
A scrip alternative will again be offered.
Approval of financial statements The financial statements were approved by the Board on 28 October 2015.
Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 105
