Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the IASB and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
The Group and parent company financial statements are required by IFRS, as issued by the IASB and UK GAAP, to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group and Company respectively.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state that the financial statements comply in the case of the Group with IFRS as issued by the IASB and in the case the parent company with UK GAAP as applied in accordance with the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931 to 2004 as amended : and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time its financial position.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Responsibility statement Each of the Directors confirms that to the best of each persons knowledge andbelief: the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group at 31 August 2015 and its profit for the year then ended: the parent company financial statements, prepared in accordance with UK GAAP give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the parent company at 31 August 2015: the adoption of a going concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements continues to be appropriate based on the year end position and having reviewed the forecast financial position of the Group: the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The financial statements are published on the Groups website.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
Signed on behalf of the Board on 28 October 2015: Mike Watters Donald Grant Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 69
