Governance Board operations Board agenda Guest speakers are Scheduled matters for the Boards consideration in addition to standard items invited to present at Quarter 2 each of the quarterly Quarter 1 Review of strategy and board meetings on a longterm objectives Yearend results and associated items specialist subject of Evaluation of the Board topical interest to the Company and the Quarter 3 Quarter 4 Directors.
Interim results and associated items Review of policies, Committee Terms of Reference, communication strategy and Review of Groups operations and debt providers internal controls The Board operates under a formal quarterly Board meetings The Company Secretary advises on regulatory schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
updates and corporate governance matters The following meetings of the Board were held This ensures that the Groups strategy and during the year: and any concerns or developments regarding objectives, risks, operations, internal controls, Insurance, Health and Safety, Sustainability, policies and debt providers are all reviewed Four quarterly Board meetings Bribery and Whistleblowing, the policies of throughout the year.
Directors are given seven days notice for which are reviewed annually, or asrequired.
quarterly Board meetings, Board papers are Prior to each meeting, in addition to the The Chairmen of the Committees provide a distributed and Directors are asked to confirm scheduled matters, the Directors receive summary of Committee meetings held and any their directorships and shareholdings to uptodate financial and commercial information recommendations to be made to the Board.
ensure that any potential conflict of interest is in respect of the activities, in particular, quarterly Directors are reminded of close periods and to disclosed before the meeting.
The Articles of management accounts and schedules of income disclose any share dealing on their own account Association permit a Director who has disclosed and outgoings each with comparisons against or that of their connected persons.
Dealings an interest in a transaction to vote and count in budget, schedules of acquisitions and disposals reported during the year are disclosed on the quorum in relation to any resolution of the and relevant appraisals and cash flow forecasts, page67.
Board concerning the related transaction, if the details of funding availability and matters relating Boardso approves.
Guest speakers are invited to present at each of the quarterly Board meetings on a With the exception of matters regarding related Board attendance of Directors specialist subject of topical interest to the party transactions, proposals regarding all who have served throughout the year Company and the Directors.
Speakers this significant or strategic decisions, including Appointment Quarterly year have included asset managers, European major acquisitions, disposals and financing and resignation Board advisers, insurance brokers and the Companys transactions, are first reviewed by the Board, Board member date meetings .
progressed through the Boards Investment Greg Clarke 4 10 2011 4 4 Committee, and then presented to the Board Michael Farrow 22 8 2011 4 4 Four Board update calls for final authorisation, which requires approval Gavin Tipper 22 8 2011 4 4 Between the scheduled Board meetings the from the majority of its members.
For related Sue Ford 17 12 2013 4 4 executives produce regular financial and party transactions any director with a conflict Robert Orr 23 4 2015 2 2 operational reports and hold update meetings of interest may be asked to leave the meeting 1 which keep Directors abreast of current issues, Marc Wainer 22 8 2011 4 4 whilst the matter is discussed and opinion prevent the Directors from being overloaded Bernie Nackan 1 4 2014 4 4 letters from the brokers, ascertaining as to with information each quarter and provides Mike Watters 2 12 2013 4 4 whether the transaction is fair and reasonable, further time for debate.
An annual strategy Stephen Oakenfull 17 12 2013 4 4 are circulated for the independent directors session affords the Directors additional time consideration.
Donald Grant 3 8 2015 0 0 for discussion and ensures that the process for Adrian Horsburgh 31 3 2014 4 4 Post year end all related party transactions will developing strategy is visible and transparent.
Elisabeth Stheeman 23 4 2015 first be reviewed by a committee comprising 3 8 2015 1 2 solely of independent nonexecutives to ensure Andrew Rowell 3 12 2013 the matter is given a measure of independent 31 5 2015 3 3 oversight before progressing to the Board for Richard Melhuish 8 11 2007 final consideration.
29 1 2015 1 1 1 Andrew Konig, attended one meeting as alternate to Marc Wainer.
50 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Major Shareholders are contacted throughout Six ad hoc Board meetings and Board communication the year, and financial results are presented via 20 Committee meetings with Shareholders webcasts and roadshows.
The Company has Ad hoc Board meetings or Committee meetings The AGM was held in January 2015 at the launched a new mobile enabled website and an are called on short notice and information head office in London and Shareholders investor app, for both mobile and tablet, both pertaining to the meeting is circulated in were encouraged to attend, or contact the of which deliver easily accessible information advance.
The level of attendance at ad hoc Company Secretary, should they wish to on daytoday operations and business meetings is subject to authority levels, requiring raise any matters with the Board.
either a full board or a committee of three notice, sent to Shareholders 20 business directors, one of which must be independent.
days in advance of the meeting, contained Board effectiveness all the notes for the proposed resolutions The Board evaluation was conducted by way One meeting of the rather than referencing sections in the Annual of an online questionnaire which assessed the Nonexecutive Directors Report, for the Shareholders convenience performance of the Chairman, the individual The Chairman meets with the nonexecutives at and consideration.
Approximately 58% of all directors and the Board.
This method of least once a year to discuss the performance of Shareholders voted and strongly supported evaluation has proved a useful tool for the executives and othermatters.
the majority of resolutions but it was noted the previous two years and the use of the that a significant number of Shareholders on Board Committees questionnaire is taken as an opportunity to the JSE register voted against Resolution 17, improve the Boards effectiveness as it allows Details of the Audit and Risk, Nominations and regarding Directors authority to allot shares and the directors to raise any matters of concern Remuneration Committee operations can be Resolution 19 regarding the 5% issuance of anonymously in addition to answering a list found on the following pages.
The proposed authorities were of set questions.
Any concerns are noted, in line with current UK guidelines, but the Board Details of the Corporate Social Responsibility discussed at the subsequent Board meeting is aware that such guidelines differ with those Committee can be found on page 37. and appropriate action taken and monitored in SouthAfrica and will continue to liaise with The Investment Committee operates in throughout the year to ensure all points are South African Shareholders on such matters.
an informal manner to discuss all major addressed.
The Companys EGM, held on 25 September acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditures.
The results of the 2014 questionnaire, 2015 in connection with the AUK portfolio Its recommendations are forwarded to the Board undertaken in the 2015 financial year, showed acquisition, was called on 14 clear days notice for final consideration.
that Directors considered the Board to work in accordance with the Companys Articles The Executive Committee meets informally well as a team, aided by strong leadership and a of Association rather than the 14 business on a weekly basis to discuss acquisitions and diverse range of skills and experience.
days required by the Code.
This was due disposals, finance, asset management activities to the transaction being time sensitive and and operational matters.
the Board was mindful that any delay would cause transactional risk.
66% of Shareholders voted and voted overwhelmingly in favour of theproposals.
Matter Results of evaluation Action taken during the year Composition Improved but required furtherattention Two new nonexecutives were appointed with European experience in property andfinance Board Regarded as excessive and there were concerns as to the The Board pack has been reviewed and the method of information security ofinformation distributed deliverychanged accessibility Greater access to external advice and management Management or advisers present at every Board meeting.
toadvice AllCommittees have access to externaladvice assets Request for directors to regularly visit the Companys assets A tour of the European assets was organised for the Board.
Adhoc visits to properties are arranged for nonexecutives and further visits are planned Communication Communication of the Companys strategy and performance Head of Marketing appointed and, post yearend, Head of tobeimproved Investor Relations appointed.
A new website and investor app has beenlaunched Risks Risk strategy and internal controlimprovements This has been reviewed and new processes are to be established in line with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code requirements Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 51
