Company information Glossary Adjusted NAV NAV EPRA NAV adjusted for the result of any nonrecourse negative equity positions Net Asset Value AGM Net debt The Annual General Meeting of the Company Total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents Aviva PSP Aviva Commercial Finance Limited Longterm Performance Share Plan awarded to the Executive Directors Board RECML The Board of Directors of Redefine International Redefine Earls Court Management Limited Cromwell RedefineBDL Cromwell Property Group is an Australian Securities Exchange listed stapled security Redefine BDL Hotel Group Limited, the holding company for the Hotel ASX:CMW comprising the Cromwell Corporation Limited and Cromwell Property ManagementGroup Securities Limited, which acts as the responsible entity of the Cromwell Diversified Redefine International, the Company or the Group Property Trust.
au Redefine International P. L. C. the enlarged Company following the reverse EPRA acquisition between Wichford and Redefine International plc.
European Public Real Estate Association Redefine Properties Limited or Redefine Properties EPRA NAV Listed on the JSE, major shareholder of the Company European Public Real Estate Association Net Asset Value Revpar EPRA NNNAV Revenue per available room calculated by multiplying the hotels average daily room European Public Real Estate Association Triple Net Asset Value rate by its occupancy rate ERV RHML The estimated market rental value of lettable space which could reasonably be Redefine Hotel Management Limited expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review RICS Exceptional items Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors Exceptional items are those items that in the Directors view are required to be RIHL separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence to enable a full understanding Redefine International Holdings Limited.
The previously AIMlisted property of the Groups financial performance investment company party to the reverse acquisition FCTR RIMH Foreign Currency Translation Reserve Redefine International Management Holdings Limited Finance Lease RIPML A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership from the Redefine International Property Management Limited lessor to the lessee TSR Grand Arcade Total shareholder return.
The growth in value of the Companys share over Grand Arcade Shopping Centre in Wigan, UK a specified period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase IFRS additionalshares International Financial Reporting Standards UKREIT IHGL A UK Real Estate Investment Trust.
A REIT must be a publicly quoted company with International Hotel Group Limited at least threequarters of its profits and assets derived from a qualifying property rental business.
Income and capital gains from the property rental business are JSE exempt from tax but the REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of those profits to JSE Limited, licensed as an exchange and a public company incorporated in terms Shareholders.
Corporation tax is payable on nonqualifying activities in the normal way of the laws of South Africa and the operator of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Underlying distributable earnings Likeforlike property Profit available for distribution after removing unrealised profits, losses and certain Property which has been held at both the current and previous balance sheet date exceptional items, representing the underlying performance of the business and used to illustrate change in comparable capital values WAULT LSE Weighted average unexpired lease term The London Stock Exchange plc LTV Loan to value.
A ratio of debt divided by the market value of investment property 116 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Designed and produced by www.
com The paper used in this report is produced using virgin wood fibre from wellmanaged forests with FSC certification.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free and manufactured at a mill that has been awarded the ISO 14001 and EMAS certificates for environmental management.
The use of the FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from wellmanaged forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
Printed by Gemini Print Limited, an FSC and ISO 14001 accredited company.
Gemini is committed to all round excellence and improving environmental performance as an important part of this strategy.
Gemini aims to reduce at source the effect operations have on the environment, and is committed to continual improvement, prevention of pollution and compliance with any legislation or industry standards.
Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Visit us online www.
com Redefine International @RedefineIntPLC Redefine International P. L. C. info@.
