Forward-looking statements Disclaimers This document contains certain forward-looking statements concerning the Groups business, financial condition, results of operations and certain of the Groups plans, objectives, assumptions, projections, expectations or beliefs with respect to these items.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identified E WKHLU XVH RI DGDWH LQ WKH IXWXUH RU VXFK ZRUGV DV DQWLFLSDWHV DLPV due, could, may, will, should, expects, believes, intends, plans, potential, targets, goal or estimates.
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the Groups actual financial condition, performance and results to differ materially from the plans, goals, objectives and expectations set out in the forwardlooking statements included in this document.
Accordingly, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
By their nature, forward-looking statements relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future and are inherently unpredictable.
Such forward-looking statements should, therefore, be considered in light of various important factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, among other things: changes in the economies and markets in which the Group operates: changes in the regulatory regime within which the Group operates: changes in interest and exchange rates: the impact of competitive products and pricing: the occurrence of major operational problems: the loss of major customers: undertakings and guarantees relating to pension funds: contingent liabilities: the impact of legal or other proceedings against, or which otherwise affect, the Group: and risks associated with the Groups overseas operations.
All written or verbal forward-looking statements, made in this document or made subsequently, which are attributable to the Group or any persons acting on their behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
No assurance can be given that the forward-looking statements in this document will be realised: actual events or results may differ materially as a result of risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Subject to compliance with applicable law and regulation, the Company does not intend to update the forward-looking statements in this document to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document, and does not undertake any obligation to do so.
Royal Mail plc 152 Royal Mail, the cruciform, Parcelforce Worldwide and the Parcelforce Worldwide logo are trade marks of Royal Mail Group Limited.
The GLS arrow logo is a trade mark of General Logistics Systems Germany GmbH & Co. OHG.
Annual Report 2014-15 Royal Mail Group Limited 2015.
