Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent Company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact ofparticular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view ofthe assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: 2. the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and 3. the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board David Sleath Justin Read Chief Executive Group Finance Director 18 February 2016 18 February 2016 112 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements In this section we present our financial statements for the year, presented in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
114 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SEGRO plc 120 Group Income Statement 120 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 121 Balance Sheets 122 Statements of Changes in Equity 124 Cash Flow Statements 125 Notes to the Financial Statements 173 Five-Year Financial Results 174 Financial Information 175 Shareholder Information 176 Glossary of Terms 113 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015
