Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ShareGift Useful historical information ShareGift is a charity registered under the name The Orr Mackintosh Share history of the Company Foundation, registered charity number 1052686 which specialises in accepting On 20 August 2007, the ordinary share capital was consolidated on the donations of small numbers of shares which are uneconomic to sell on their 1 basis of 12 new ordinary shares of 27 12 pence for every 13 ordinary own.
Shares which have been donated to ShareGift are aggregated and sold shares of 25 pence held on the 17 August 2007.
A special dividend of when practicable, with the proceeds passed on to a wide range of UK charities.
53 pence per share was paid in connection with the consolidation on ShareGift can also help with larger donations of shares.
ShareGift can be obtained from its website at www.
org or by writing On 4 March 2009, a rights issue was announced on the basis of 12 new to ShareGift at 17 Carlton House Terrace, London, SW1Y 5AH, telephone: ordinary shares for every existing share held on 17 March 2009 at a 44 0 207 930 3737.
1 subscription price of 10 pence per share.
Each 27 12 pence ordinary share in issue was sub-divided and re-classified into one ordinary share of one Dividends 1 pence each and one deferred share of 26 12 pence each.
The deferred A requirement of the REIT regime is that a REIT must distribute to shareholders shares were created for technical reasons in order to maintain the by way of dividend at least 90 per cent of its profits from its tax-exempt aggregate nominal value of the Companys share capital upon sub-division UK property rental business calculated under UK tax principles after the of its ordinary shares.
The very limited rights attached to the deferred deduction of interest and capital allowances and excluding chargeable gains.
shares rendered them effectively valueless and they were cancelled on Such distributions are referred to as Property Income Distributions, or PIDs.
Any further distributions may be paid as ordinary dividends or PIDs, which are In relation to the acquisition of Brixton plc, on 24 August 2009, SEGRO derived from profits earned by its UK, non-REIT taxable business, as well as its plc undertook a share consolidation, open offer and private placing.
On 31 July 2009, every 10 ordinary shares of one pence each were consolidated into one ordinary share of 10 pence each and, 0.10484 open SCRIP Dividend offer shares of 10 pence each were offered to every shareholder of SEGRO Shareholders approved the re-introduction of a scrip dividend option SCRIP plc who, on 13 July 2009, held 10 ordinary shares of one pence each.
in respect of cash dividends including those treated as Property Income The acquisition of Brixton was conducted by a scheme of arrangement.
Subject to the Board deciding to offer a Brixton shareholders were offered 0.175 consideration shares of 10 pence SCRIP, the SCRIP runs for three years ending on the earlier of 28 April 2018 each in SEGRO plc for each Brixton share held.
and the beginning of the third AGM of the Company following 29 April 2015.
It allows shareholders who elect to receive the SCRIP, to take their final and Shareholder enquiries interim dividends in shares rather than cash.
Details of the SCRIP together with If you have any questions about your shareholding or if you require further information on how shareholders can elect to receive it, are available on the guidance e. g. to notify a change of address please contact our Registrar, Companys website www.
The Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex has been suspended.
Alternatively, you can Withholding tax PIDs check your shareholding and access dividend information by registering at SEGRO is required to withhold tax at source from its PIDs at the basic tax rate www.
co. uk, or you can securely send queries via the website by 20 per cent.
UK shareholders need take no immediate action unless they visiting https: help.
co. uk qualify for exemption as described below and will receive with each dividend Electronic communications payment a tax deduction certificate stating the amount of tax deducted.
Shareholders have the opportunity to elect to receive shareholder UK shareholders who fall into one of the classes of shareholder able to claim an communications electronically, e. g. Annual Reports, Notice of the Annual exemption from withholding tax may be able to receive a gross PID payment General Meeting and Proxy Forms.
You can elect to receive email notifications if they have submitted a valid relevant Exemption Declaration form, either as of shareholder communications by registering at www.
co. uk a beneficial owner of the shares, or as an intermediary if the shares are not where you can also set up a bank mandate to receive dividends directly to registered in the name of the beneficial owner, to Equiniti.
The Exemption your bank account and to submit proxy votes for shareholder meetings.
Declaration form is available at www.
com under Investors Shareholder Receiving the Companys communications electronically allows the Company Information REIT.
A valid declaration form, once submitted, will continue to to communicate with its shareholders in a more environmentally friendly, cost apply to future payments of PIDs until rescinded, and so it is a shareholders effective and timely manner.
responsibility to notify SEGRO if their circumstances change and they are no longer able to claim an exemption from withholding tax.
AGM The 2016 AGM will be held on 22 April 2016 at RSA House, 8 John Adam Shareholders resident outside the UK may be able to claim a partial refund of Street, London WC2N 6EZ.
withholding tax either as an individual or as a company from HMRC, subject to the terms of a double tax treaty, if any, between the UK and the country in which the shareholder is resident.
175 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Glossary of Terms APP: Airport Property Partnership, a 50-50 joint venture between SEGRO and Passing rent: The annual rental income currently receivable on a property Aviva Investors.
as at the Balance Sheet date which may be more or less than the ERV.
Excludes rental income where a rent free period is in operation.
Completed portfolio: The completed investment and trading properties Excludes service charge income which is netted off against service and the Groups share of joint ventures completed investment and charge expenses.
Pre-let: A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of a development.
Development pipeline: The Groups current programme of developments authorised or in the course of construction at the Balance Sheet date, together REIT: A qualifying entity which has elected to be treated as a Real Estate with potential schemes not yet commenced on land owned or controlled by Investment Trust for tax purposes.
In the UK, such entities must be listed on the Group.
a recognised stock exchange, must be predominantly engaged in property investment activities and must meet certain ongoing qualifications.
SEGRO plc EPRA: The European Public Real Estate Association, a real estate industry and its UK subsidiaries achieved REIT status with effect from 1 January 2007. body, which has issued Best Practices Recommendations in order to provide consistency and transparency in real estate reporting across Europe.
Rent roll: See Passing Rent.
Estimated cost to completion: Costs still to be expended on a development or SELP: SEGRO European Logistics Partnership, a 50-50 joint venture between redevelopment to practical completion, including attributable interest.
SEGRO and Public Sector Pension Investment Board PSP Investments.
Estimated rental value ERV : The estimated annual market rental value of SIIC: Socits dinvestissements Immobiliers Cotes are the French equivalent lettable space as determined biannually by the Groups valuers.
This will of UK Real Estate Investment Trusts seeREIT.
normally be different from the rent being paid.
Speculative development: Where a development has commenced prior to a Gearing: Net borrowings divided by total shareholders equity excluding lease agreement being signed in relation to that development.
intangible assets and deferred tax provisions.
Square metres sq m : The area of buildings measurements used in this analysis.
Gross rental income: Contracted rental income recognised in the period in the The conversion factor used, where appropriate, is onesquare metre 10.7639 Income Statement, including surrender premiums and interest receivable on square feet.
Lease incentives, initial costs and any contracted future rental Takeback: Rental income lost due to lease expiry, exercise of break option, increases are amortised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Hectares Ha : The area of land measurement used in this analysis.
Topped up net initial yield: Net initial yield adjusted to include notional rent in The conversion factor used, where appropriate, is 1 hectare 2.471 acres.
respect of let properties which are subject to a rent free period at the valuation Investment property: Completed land and buildings held for rental income date.
This is in accordance with EPRAs Best Practices Recommendations.
return and or capital appreciation.
Total property return TPR : A measure of the ungeared return for the portfolio Joint venture: An entity in which the Group holds an interest and which is and is calculated as the change in capital value, less any capital expenditure jointly controlled by the Group and one or more partners under a contractual incurred, plus net income, expressed as a percentage of capital employed over arrangement whereby decisions on financial and operating policies essential to the period concerned, as calculated by MSCI Real Estate and excluding land.
the operation, performance and financial position of the venture require each Total shareholder return TSR : A measure of return based upon share price partners consent.
movement over the period and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
Loan to value LTV : Net borrowings divided by the carrying value of total Trading property: Property being developed for sale or one which is being held property assets investment, owner occupied, trading properties and at for sale after development is complete.
31 December 2015 includes the Bath Road office portfolio categorised Yield on cost: Yield on cost is the expected gross yield based on the estimated as Assets held for sale in the balance sheet.
This is measured either on a current market rental value ERV of the developments when fully let, divided look-through basis including joint ventures at share or wholly owned by the book value of the developments at the earlier of commencement ofthe whichexcludes joint ventures.
development or the balance sheet date plus future development costs and MSCI-IPD: MSCI Real Estate calculates the IPD indices of real estate estimated finance costs tocompletion.
Net initial yield: Annualised current passing rent less non-recoverable property expenses such as empty rates, divided by the property valuation plus notional purchasers costs.
Net rental income: Gross rental income less ground rents paid, net service charge expenses and property operating expenses.
Net true equivalent yield: The internal rate of return from an investment property, based on the value of the property assuming the current passing rent reverts to ERV and assuming the property becomes fully occupied over time.
It assumes that rent is received quarterly in advance.
176 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The printer and paper mill are both accredited with ISO14001 Registered office Environmental Management System and are both Forest SEGRO plc Stewardship Council certified.
Cunard House CPI Colour is a Carbon Neutral printing company.
15 Regent Street London SW1Y 4LR Designed and produced by www.
com Registered in England and Wales Registered number 167591 Go online To keep up to date with SEGRO, you can source facts and figures about the Group through the various sections on our website and sign up for email alerts for fast communication ofbreaking news.
Financial reports, shareholder information and property analysis are frequently updated and our current share price isalways displayed on the Home Page.
As well as featuring detailed information about available property throughout the portfolio, www.
com now also includes a dedicated property search function making it easy for potential customers, or their agents, to find business space that fits their requirement exactly.
SEGROs performance in areas such as sustainability and customer care are also featured on the site, www.
com Other publications Additional disclosures on our property portfolio can be found in the 2015 Property Analysis Report.
com for this document and further information on Sustainability.
Forward-looking statements The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to SEGROs expectations and plans, strategy, management objectives, future developments and performances, costs, revenues and other trend information.
These statements are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties.
Many of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond SEGROs ability to control or estimate precisely and which could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forwardlooking statements.
Certain statements have been made with reference to forecast process changes, economic conditions and the current regulatory environment.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of SEGRO are based upon the knowledge and information available to Directors on the date of this Annual Report.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and SEGROs shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.
Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, SEGRO does not undertake to update forwardlooking statements to reflect any changes in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement isbased.
Past share performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
com investors 2015 Annual Report & Accounts
