156 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 OTHER INFORMATION Glossary of terms Capital value return Equivalent yield Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The valuation movement and realised Equivalent yield is the internal rate of An arrangement under which an employee is surpluses or deficits arising from the return from an investment property, awarded options in the Company at nil cost, Groups investment portfolio expressed as based on the gross outlays for the subject to a period of continued a percentage return on the valuation at purchase of a property including employment and the attainment of NAV and the beginning of the period adjusted for purchase costs, reflecting reversions to TSR targets over a three-year vesting period.
current market rent, and such items as voids and non-recoverable expenditure Net asset value NAV but disregarding potential changes in Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR Equity shareholders funds divided by the market rents.
The year-on-year growth rate of an number of ordinary shares at the balance investment over a specified period of time.
European Public Real Estate Association EPRA Conservation area Net asset value return EPRA develops policies for standards of A conservation area is an area of special The change in EPRA NAV per ordinary share reporting disclosure, ethics and industry architectural interest, the character or plus dividends paid per ordinary share practices.
appearance of which it is desirable to expressed as a percentage of the EPRA NAV preserve or enhance.
In dealing with per share at the beginning of the period.
Estimated rental value ERV development in conservation areas, the general aim of authorities is to ensure that ERV is the market rental value of Property Income Distribution PID the quality of townscape is preserved or properties owned by the Group, A PID is a distribution by a REIT to its enhanced, though legislation gives estimated by the Groups valuers.
shareholders paid out of qualifying profits.
protection to individual buildings A REIT is required to distribute at least considered to be of particular heritage, Fair value 90% of its qualifying profits as a PID to its significance and value to an area.
The amount at which an asset or liability shareholders.
could be exchanged between two EPRA adjustments knowledgeable willing unconnected Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Standard adjustments to calculate EPS parties in an arms length transaction at A REIT is a tax designation for an entity or and NAV as set out by EPRA in its Best the valuation date.
group investing in real estate that reduces Practice and Policy Recommendations.
or eliminates corporation tax on rental Gearing profits and chargeable gains relating to the EPRA EPS Nominal value of Group borrowings rental business, providing certain criteria EPRA EPS is the level of recurring income expressed as a percentage of EPRA net obligations set out in tax legislation are met.
arising from core operational activities.
excludes all items which are not relevant The Office of National Statistics ONS to the underlying and recurring portfolio Initial yield The ONS is the executive office of the UK performance.
The initial yield is the net initial income at Statistics Authority, a non-ministerial the date of valuation expressed as a department which reports directly to the UK EPRA NAV percentage of the gross valuation.
It is charged with the collection EPRA NAV aims to provide a consistent reflect net income after deduction of any and publication of statistics related to the long-term performance measure, by ground rents, head rents, rent charges economy, population and society of the UK.
adjusting reported net assets for items and estimated irrecoverable outgoings.
that are not expected to crystallise in Topped up initial yield normal circumstances, such as the fair Interest cover An adjusted initial yield which assumes value of derivative financial instruments The interest cover is a measure of the rent free periods or other unexpired lease and deferred tax on property valuation number of times the Group can make incentives, such as discounted rent surpluses.
EPRA NAV includes the interest payments with its operating profit periods and step ups, have expired.
potentially dilutive effect of outstanding before investment property disposals and options granted over ordinary shares.
Total property return Net property income and the valuation EPRA net assets Like-for-like portfolio movement and realised surpluses or Net assets used in the EPRA NAV The like-for-like portfolio includes all deficits arising from the portfolio for the calculation, including additional equity if properties that have been held year expressed as percentage return on all vested share options were exercised.
the valuation at the beginning of the period adjusted for acquisitions and EPRA triple net asset value Loan-to-value capital expenditure.
EPRA NAV incorporating the fair value of Nominal value of borrowings expressed as debt which is not included in the reported Total Shareholder Return TSR a percentage of the fair value of property net assets.
The change in the market price of an ordinary share plus dividends reinvested EPRA vacancy expressed as a percentage of the share The rental value of vacant property price at the beginning of the period.
available expressed as a percentage of ERV of the total portfolio.
Contents Strategic report Governance Financial highlights 4 Directors and officers 70 Chairmans statement 5 Corporate governance 72 Exceptional portfolio 8 Nomination Committee report 76 Our objective 14 Audit Committee report 78 How we create and deliver value 19 Remuneration report 82 Mix of uses 20 Remuneration policy 84 Retail 24 Annual Remuneration report 92 Restaurants, cafs and pubs 25 Directors report 102 Offices 26 Directors responsibilities 104 Residential 27 Independent auditors report 105 Proven management strategy 30 Experienced management team 33 Financial statements Robust balance sheet 34 Group statement of Valuation 38 comprehensive income 110 Investment in our portfolio 42 Balance sheets 111 Demand and occupancy 46 Cash flow statements 112 Statements of changes in equity 113 Village summaries 48 Results and finance 52 Notes to the financial statements 114 Looking ahead 57 Risk management 59 Other information Viability Statement 66 Shareholder information 141 Portfolio analysis 142 Basis of valuation 142 Summary report by the valuer 144 Sustainability 146 Glossary of terms 156 Design: SG Design sg-design.
co. uk Printed: Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System iscertified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average, 99% ofanywaste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Heaven 42, a paper containing 100% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
Some pulp in this product is bleached using both elemental chlorine free ECF process and using a totally chlorine free TCF process.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 all day Shaftesbury PLC 22 Ganton Street Carnaby London W1F 7FD T: 020 7333 8118 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 shaftesbury.
