104 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under The directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, company law the directors must not approve the financial taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 70 to 71 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: s elect suitable accounting policies and then apply them t he Group financial statements, which have been prepared in consistently: accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and m ake judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of and prudent: the Group: and s tate whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European t he Strategic Report contained on pages 1 to 68 of the Annual Union have been followed, subject to any material departures Report includes a fair review of the development and disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and performance of the business and the position of the Group, p repare the financial statements on the going concern basis together with a description of the principal risks and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will uncertainties that it faces.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
