144 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 OTHER INFORMATION Summary Report by the Valuers To the Directors of Shaftesbury PLC In accordance with your instructions, we have undertaken a DTZ was a UGL Company until 5 November 2014.
In UGLs financial valuation of the various commercial and residential freehold and year ending 30 June 2014, the proportion of fees payable by the long leasehold property interests as at 30th September 2015 the Company to the total fee income of UGL was less than 5%.
The date of valuation held by Shaftesbury Carnaby Limited, DTZ group became a stand-alone, private global property Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, Shaftesbury Chinatown services company on 5 November 2014, following the sale to a Limited, Shaftesbury Soho Limited, Shaftesbury AV Limited and consortium of investors led by TPG Capital Management.
On 1 Shaftesbury CL Limited, which are subsidiary companies September 2015, DTZ acquired C&W and the combined group collectively referred to as the Subsidiary Companies of now trades under the C&W brand.
C&Ws financial year end is 31 Shaftesbury PLC the Company, as referred to in our Valuation December.
We anticipate that the proportion of fees payable by Reports dated 16 November 2015 our Reports.
Our Reports the Company to the C&W group in the financial year to 31 were prepared for accounts purposes.
December 2015 will remain at less than 5%.
In accordance with the provisions of VPGA 8 of the Red Book, in All properties have been subject to external inspections between undertaking our valuations, we have lotted together certain individual January and October 2015 and a number were subject to internal properties to form a separate property a Property or Properties inspections.
in the manner we consider to be most likely to be adopted in the case We confirm that the valuations have been prepared in of an actual sale.
We consider that lotting the properties together on accordance with the appropriate sections of the RICS the basis reflected in our valuations would allow a purchaser to Professional Standards PS, RICS Global Valuation Practice capitalise on the estate management advantages and opportunities Statements VPS, RICS Global Valuation Practice Guidance - available from such comprehensive ownership.
Applications VPGAs and United Kingdom Valuation Standards UKVS contained within the RICS Valuation - Professional A high proportion of the total value of the Subsidiary Companies Standards 2014, the Red Book.
It follows that the valuations properties and Properties is accounted for by properties and are compliant with International Valuation Standards.
We confirm Properties situated in adjacent and or adjoining locations in four that we have sufficient current knowledge of the relevant specific areas of the West End of London: Carnaby Street and its markets, and the skills and understanding to undertake these environs, Chinatown and the adjoining area immediately west of valuations competently.
We also confirm that, where more than Wardour Street south of its junction with Shaftesbury Avenue, one valuer has contributed to the valuations, the requirements of and the areas around Seven Dials in the western part of Covent VS 2.3.
7 of the Red Book have been satisfied.
Finally, we confirm Garden and a block of properties to the east of the Central that we have undertaken the valuations acting as External Covent Garden Piazza with its main frontage to Wellington Street.
Valuers, qualified for the purpose of the valuations.
These areas are all dominated by retail and restaurant uses.
In our opinion, at the date of valuation, this particular unusual In accordance with PS 2.8 and UKVS 4, we are required to make confluence of ownership and use characteristics may cause certain disclosures in connection with this valuation instruction some prospective purchasers to regard parts of the portfolio and our relationship with the Company and the Subsidiary when combined as having a greater value than the aggregate of Companies.
Charles Smith is the signatory of our Reports.
This is the individual values of the combined properties and Properties the fifth time that he has been signatory of valuation reports which make up those parts.
addressed to the Subsidiary Companies.
DTZ Debenham Tie Leung DTZ has been carrying out this valuation instruction for As required by the provisions of the Red Book, in undertaking our the Company, and now the Subsidiary Companies, for a valuations, we have valued each property or Property separately, continuous period since 1996.
As well as preparing our Reports, rather than valuing the portfolio as a whole or in combinations of we also undertake valuations of certain of the properties parts.
The total valuation figure below is the aggregated value referred to in our Reports for other purposes, such as secured of the separate properties or Properties within the various lending and for inclusion in shareholders circulars.
categories of tenure referred to below.
On 2 September 2015, DTZ and Cushman & Wakefield C&W All valuations were on the basis of Fair Value.
We have assessed combined under a common brand.
Notwithstanding our new Fair Value in accordance with VPS 4.1.
Our branding, our legal entities have not changed, including their opinion of the Fair Value of each of the properties or Properties names.
Prior to 2 September 2015, there had been no feehas been primarily derived using comparable recent market earning instructions between DTZ and the Company or the transactions on arms length terms.
Subsidiary Companies, other than valuation instructions, for in We have not made any allowance for vendors sale costs nor for excess of three years.
Prior to 2 September 2015, C&W were any tax liabilities which may arise upon the disposal of any of the appointed as retail agents by Shaftesbury Soho Limited and properties or Properties.
We have made deductions to reflect Shaftesbury Carnaby Limited and these instructions have purchasers normal acquisition costs.
A full explanation of the Assumptions made in our valuations and details of the sources of information are contained within our Reports.
SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 OTHER INFORMATION SUMMARY REPORT BY THE VALUER CONTINUED 145 We have measured certain of the properties, or parts of A long lease is one with an unexpired term in excess of 50 years.
properties, either on site or by scaling from floor plans.
The The contents of our Reports are confidential to Shaftesbury PLC, Company, its managing agents or professional advisers have Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, Shaftesbury Carnaby provided us with the floor areas of the remaining properties or Limited, Shaftesbury Chinatown Limited, Shaftesbury Soho parts of properties.
Limited, Shaftesbury AV Limited and Shaftesbury CL Limited, for We have read the majority of the leases and related documents the specific purpose to which they refer and are for their use provided to us in respect of the commercial properties.
Consequently, and in accordance with current practice, no have not read leases, we have relied on tenancy information provided responsibility is accepted to any other party in respect of the by the Company, its managing agents or professional advisers.
whole or any part of the contents of our Reports or this summary report.
Before our Reports or this summary report, or any part Certain properties were subject to works of repair or refurbishment thereof, are reproduced or referred to, in any document, circular at 30th September 2015, or were subject to outstanding retentions or statement, and before their contents, or any part thereof, are and fees in respect of projects already completed at that date.
In disclosed orally or otherwise to a third party, the valuers written these instances, the Company advised us of the amount of the approval as to the form and context of such publication or outstanding costs.
The costs will be borne by the Company as they disclosure must first be obtained.
For the avoidance of doubt, are not recoverable from tenants.
We have reflected these costs in such approval is required whether or not DTZ Debenham Tie our valuations.
The total amount of such costs is 11,362,000 and Leung is referred to by name and whether or not the contents of details of the individual sums are included in our Reports.
our Reports or this summary report are combined with others.
As referred to above, we have lotted together certain individual Charles Smith MRICS properties to form a number of separate Properties.
In the case of International Director three Properties which comprise a number of individual properties, RICS Registered Valuer the majority of such properties are held freehold but certain of them are held on long leases.
In order to divide our valuation of For and on behalf of these Properties between the categories of freehold and long DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited leasehold, we have undertaken notional apportionments of value 125 Old Broad Street between the freehold elements and the long leasehold elements London EC2N 1AR which together comprise the relevant Properties.
The amounts As of 2 September, 2015, DTZ Debenham Tie Leung and Cushman arising from these notional apportionments of value have been & Wakefield have combined under a new common brand.
included in the figures representing the freehold and long leasehold Notwithstanding our new branding, our underlying legal entities categories below.
The amounts arising from the notional have not changed, including their names.
apportionments do not themselves represent the Fair Value of the two elements.
The Subsidiary Companies own a number of properties on a freehold basis where they also hold long leasehold interests within the freehold and have not merged the interests.
For the purposes of the freehold long leasehold split below, we have included such properties within the freehold category.
Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the aggregates of the Fair Values, as at 30th September 2015, of the freehold and long leasehold property interests owned by the Company and the Subsidiary Companies, subject to the Assumptions and comments in our Reports dated 16 November 2015, were as follows:- Freehold 2,691,420,000 Properties Two billion, six hundred and ninety-one million, four hundred and twenty thousand pounds Long leasehold 228,100,000 Properties T wo hundred and twenty-eight million, one hundred thousand pounds Total 2,919,520,000 Two billion, nine hundred and nineteen million, five hundred and twenty thousand pounds
