034 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Robust Prudent financial management, a strong balance Sources of capital Investment in our portfolio to enhance shareholder returns is sheet and a funded through a combination of equity and debt, with equity providing the permanent capital to support our long-term strategy.
Under REIT rules, we are required to distribute the majority of tax-efficient our recurring earnings.
The importance of our ownership clusters in long-term value creation means that opportunities to recycle capital are limited.
structure SEE PAGES 30 TO 31 FOR WHY OWNERSHIP CLUSTERS ARE IMPORTANT OVER THE LONG TERM Low-risk debt structure In vestment in our portfolio Consistent with the long-term nature of our portfolio and secure income streams, our core debt finance is provided by long-term funded through equity and debt arrangements with covenant structures which do not restrict the active management of our assets.
Medium-term revolving Pr udent approach to gearing facilities provide us with flexibility in managing our resources and capacity to invest further in our existing portfolio, in particular allowing us to act swiftly when acquiring properties.
Low risk debt structure Our approach to gearing is prudent, ensuring we have: diversity of loans, lenders and Healthy interest cover Year ended 30 September 2015: maturities 2.13 times Low loan-to-value ratio 30 September 2015: 22.5% Loan-to-v alue: 22.5% Spread of maturities and Earliest maturity: 2018.
Latest diversity of lenders maturity: 2035.
Weighted W eighted average maturity average maturity at 30 September 2015: 10.2 years of debt: 10.2 years Limited exposure to interest % of debt fixed at 30 September rate movements 2015: 97.2% Tax-efficient REIT structure Over the long term, we would expect debt to represent around one third of our invested capital, although we also consider other metrics, such as interest cover, when considering gearing levels.
SEE FINANCING ANALYSIS ON PAGE 56 Tax-efficient REIT structure As a REIT, we are a tax-efficient vehicle for many investors.
We do not pay tax in respect of rental profits and chargeable gains relating to our property rental business.
However, we are required to distribute at least 90% of the qualifying REIT income as a PID.
This is treated as income for investors, and is taxed according to their own tax status.
PIDs are subject to a withholding tax at basic rate income tax, except for certain classes of investors who can register to receive gross, rather than net, payments.
SEE PAGE 141 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ON OUR REIT STATUS, AND PAGE 54 FOR THE RECOMMENDED DIVIDEND SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 035 fun games 036 reading 037 writing
