ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods, to The financial statements of the Company have been allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, residual value, over its remaining useful life.
IFRSIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006, applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Onerous leases financial statements have been prepared on the A provision for onerous leases is made for pubs for which going-concern basis, using historical cost convention, future trading profits, or income from subleases, are not except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
The provision takes several factors into account, including the expected future profitability of The accounting policies which follow set out those the pub and the amount estimated as payable on policies which apply in preparing the financial statements surrender of the lease, where this is a possible outcome.
These policies have been consistently applied to all of the years presented, unless Hedging otherwise stated.
The Company adopts hedge accounting, meaning that the effective portion of the changes in the fair value of the Important estimates and judgements derivatives is dealt with in other comprehensive income.
Estimates and judgements are based on historical Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion would experience and other factors, including expectations of be recognised immediately in the income statement.
future events which are believed to be reasonable and constitute managements best judgement at the date of The Company makes assumptions on the requirements the financial statements.
Actual experience may differ for future borrowings, as well as future interest rates, from these estimates.
Complex areas on judgement or when assessing the effectiveness of interest-rate swaps.
estimates involving sums which are significant to the Changes in the forecast amount of future borrowings or accounts are disclosed below.
interest rates may result in all or part of the gain or loss, which was originally reported in equity, being transferred Impairment of property, plant and equipment to the income statement.
The Company determines whether a trading pub should be impaired by comparing its net book value with future Exceptional items cash flows value in use, having made certain A degree of judgement is required in determining whether assumptions about sales, costs and profit and applying a certain transactions merit separate presentation to allow pre-tax discount rate for future years of 8%.
shareholders to better understand financial performance in the year, when compared with previous years and trends.
Pubs and pub sites which the Company intends to sell, or might sell, are impaired if the expected net sale proceeds Taxation fair value are less than the book value.
Significant judgement is required to determine the provision for taxes, as the tax treatment for some Fair value less the costs of selling the assets is transactions cannot be fully determined until a formal determined using external and internal estimates resolution has been reached with the tax authorities.
of the value of the Companys pubs.
Tax benefits are not recognised until it is probable that the benefit will be obtained.
The value in use is calculated using the estimated earnings and cash flows derived by management Segmental reporting estimates and applying a suitable pre-tax discount rate The Company operates predominantly one type of business to these cash flows.
pubs in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland.
Given the immaterial size of the Companys hotel business At each reporting date, the Company assesses whether and trading presence in the Republic of Ireland, these have an asset may be impaired.
not been separately disclosed as a business segment.
Any changes in the level of forecast earnings or cash Exceptional items flows, the discount rate applied to those or the estimate The Company presents, on the face of the income in sale proceeds fair value could give rise to an additional statement, those material items of income and expense or reduced impairment provision.
which, because of the nature and magnitude of the event giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow If a previously recognised impairment loss is reversed, the shareholders to better understand the elements of carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable financial performance in the year.
This helps to facilitate amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the comparison with previous years and to better assess carrying amount which would have been determined, net trends in financial performance.
of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in previous years.
After such a reversal, the ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 37 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Property gains and losses or change in circumstances indicating that the carrying The Company defines property gains and losses as those value may not be recoverable.
items of income and expenditure which are the result of owning and leasing assets which are non-recurring in Investment property nature.
These include the impairment of fixed assets, Freehold properties which are held primarily to derive a movements in the onerous lease provision and proceeds rental income and for which there is no immediate and costs from the disposal of assets.
These items are intention to develop into Wetherspoon pubs are classified presented on the face of the income statement to more as investment properties.
clearly show the Companys underlying performance.
These properties are stated at cost, less accumulated Property, plant and equipment depreciation and any impairment in value and depreciated Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed in line with the accounting policy for freehold land cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment and buildings.
Lease premiums Cost of assets includes acquisition costs, as well as other Payments made on entering into or acquiring leaseholds directly attributable costs in bringing the asset into use.
which are accounted for as operating leases represent prepaid lease payments.
These are amortised on a straightDepreciation is charged on a straight-line basis, over the line basis, over the lease term to the next break clause.
estimated useful life of the asset as follows: Lease premiums are disclosed as other non-current assets.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Assets held for sale Where the value of an asset will be recovered through a Freehold and long-leasehold buildings are depreciated to sale transaction, rather than continuing use, the asset is their estimated residual values over 50 years.
classified as held for sale.
Assets held for sale are valued at the lower of book value and fair value, less any costs Short-leasehold buildings are depreciated over the of disposal, and are no longer depreciated.
Inventories Equipment, fixtures and fittings are depreciated over Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable 3 to 10 years.
Cost is calculated on a weighted average basis, with net realisable value being the estimated selling price, less Unopened properties are not depreciated until such time any costs of disposal.
Provision is made for obsolete, as economic benefits are derived.
slow-moving or damaged inventory, where appropriate.
Residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed Bar and food inventory is recognised as an expense when and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Non-consumable inventory is recognised as an expense immediately on receipt at a pub or hotel.
The Profits and losses on disposal of property, plant and policy on non-consumable inventory was introduced in equipment reflect the difference between the net selling the current financial period.
price and the carrying amount at the date of disposal and are recognised in the income statement.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a in those expense categories consistent with the function past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources of the impaired asset.
will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the obligations amount.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are carried at cost, less accumulated Revenue recognition amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Revenue recognised at the time of sale is the fair value of bar, food, slot machine and hotel room sales, after Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised on deducting discounts and sales-based taxes.
a straight-line basis over their expected useful life, as follows: Revenue from hotel rooms is recognised when rooms are occupied and as services are provided, after deduction of Computer software, including related development and discounts and sales-based taxes.
Leases The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed Leases where the Company assumes substantially all of annually for impairment, in case there has been an event the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as 38 J D WETHERSPOON PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES finance leases.
Assets acquired under finance leases are Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity, capitalised at the lower of their fair value and the present if it relates to items which are credited or charged to value of future lease payments.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease income statement.
Finance charges included in lease payments are charged as an expense to the income statement, while Free cash flow the asset is depreciated in line with the accounting policy The calculation of free cash flow is based on the net cash for property, plant and equipment.
generated by business activities after funding interest, corporation tax, loan issue cost, all reinvestment in Leases where the lessor retains substantially all of the information technology, head office and pubs trading at the assets risks and benefits of ownership are classified as start of the period excluding extensions and the purchase operating leases.
If the operating lease is subject to fixed of own shares under the employee share-based plan.
uplifts over the term of the lease, rental payments are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis, Financial instruments over the period of the lease, in line with adopted Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the accounting standards.
If the operating lease is subject to date on which the Company becomes party to the open-market rents, rental payments are charged at the contractual provisions of the instrument giving rise prevailing rates.
to the asset or liability.
The Company also has concession rentals payable, based Financial assets on turnover.
These are charged to operating profit at the The Company classifies its financial assets as loans and higher of minimum contractual obligations under the receivables.
The Company has no assets which would fall agreements or based as a percentage of turnover.
into a category outside of loans and receivables.
Lease incentives Loans and receivables Lease incentives are recognised as a reduction of rental Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets expense to the break clause.
These are amortised on a with fixed or determinable payments which are not straight-line basis.
quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after Borrowing costs the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the assets.
Loans and receivables comprise other receivables period in which they are incurred, unless the requirements and cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet.
by the adopted accounting standards for the capitalisation of borrowing costs relating to assets are met.
Receivables Other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and Income taxes carried at amortised cost less an allowance for any Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the uncollectible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to, the made when collection of the full amount is no longer taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws which are probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Cash and cash equivalents Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet differences arising between the tax bases of assets and comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial deposits.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, statements, with the following exceptions: cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term deposits as defined above.
Bank overdrafts are shown n Where the temporary difference arises from an asset within current financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
or liability in a transaction which, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable Financial liabilities profit or loss.
The Company classifies its financial liabilities as other financial liabilities.
The Company currently has no n Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the liabilities which would fall outside of this category, with extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available the exception of interest-rate swaps which are described against which the deductible temporary differences, below in the section dealing with hedging and are carried-forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
classified as fair value through profit and loss.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the Other financial liabilities are measured at fair value on tax rates which are expected to apply when the related asset initial recognition and subsequently measured at is realised or liability settled, based on tax rates and laws amortised cost, using the effective-interest method.
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 39 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Trade and other payables Retirement benefits Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair Contributions to personal pension schemes are recognised value and subsequently at amortised cost, using the in the income statement in the period in which they fall effective-interest method.
All contributions are in respect of a defined contribution scheme.
The Company has no future payment Bank loans and borrowings obligations, once the contributions have been paid.
Interest-bearing bank loans and other borrowings are recorded initially at fair value of consideration received, Dividends net of direct issue costs.
Borrowings are subsequently Dividends recommended by the board, but unpaid at each recorded at amortised cost, with any difference between period end, are not recognised in the financial statements the amount recorded initially and the redemption value until they are paid in the case of the interim dividend or recognised in the income statement over the period of approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting the bank loans, using the effective-interest method.
in the case of the final dividend.
Bank loans and loan notes are classified as current Changes in net debt liabilities, unless the Company has an unconditional right Changes in net debt are both the cash and non-cash to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months movements of the year, including movements in derivative after the balance sheet date.
financial instruments, of finance leases, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivative financial instruments used by the Company Share-based charges are stated at fair value on initial recognition and at The Company has an employee share incentive plan which subsequent balance sheet dates.
awards shares to qualifying employees: there is also a deferred bonus scheme which awards shares to directors and Hedge accounting is used only where, at the inception senior managers, subject to specific performance criteria.
of the hedge, there is formal designation and documentation of the hedging relationship, it meets the The cost of the awards in respect of these plans is measured Companys risk-management objective for undertaking by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are the hedge and it is expected to be highly effective.
granted and is amortised as an expense over the vesting period.
In valuing these transactions, no account is taken of Interest-rate swaps any vesting conditions, other than market conditions linked Interest-rate swaps are classified as hedges where they to the price of the shares of the Company.
hedge exposure to cash flow variability in interest rates.
The Company currently has no other share-based For interest-rate swaps, the effective portion of the gain transactions.
or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the Changes in standards income statement within fair value gain loss on financial The following new standards, amendments to standards derivatives.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to or interpretations were mandatory for the first time for the the income statement only when the hedged transaction financial year beginning 28 July 2014 and have a minimal is assessed to be ineffective, when considering the impact on the financial statements: Companys forecast debt levels for the period of time for which the swaps are in place.
n IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements n Amendments to IAS 32, Financial instruments: Share capital Presentation Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs n Amendments to IAS 36, Impairment to assets directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options n Amendments to IAS 39, Financial instruments: are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from Recognition and measurement the proceeds.
The following amendments were mandatory for the first Foreign currencies time for the financial year beginning 28 July 2014, Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are but are not relevant for the Company: recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at n IFRS 11, Joint arrangements the year-end exchange rates, with the resulting exchange n IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities differences taken to the income statement.
n Amendments to IFRS 10, 12 and IAS 27, on consolidation for investment entities n Amendments to IAS 39, Novation of derivatives and hedge accounting n IFRIC 21, Levies 40 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
