GLOSSARY OF TERMS Adjusted underlying earnings are based on trading Loan to value is the current loan balance divided by profit after interest adjusted to exclude exceptional items.
the current value of properties owned by the Group.
BWPT BlackRock Workspace Property Trust, a joint Market rental values see ERV.
venture property fund with the BlackRock UK Property Net asset value per share NAV is net assets divided Fund in which the Group holds a 20.1% interest.
by the number of shares at the period end.
Cash rent roll is the current net rents receivable for Net bank debt is the amount drawn on bank facilities, occupied units.
including overdrafts, less cash deposits.
Earnings per share EPS is the profit after taxation Net rents are rents excluding any contracted increases divided by the weighted average number of shares in and after deduction of inclusive service charge revenue.
Occupancy percentage is the area of space let divided Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT is the trust by the total net lettable area excluding land used for created by the Group to hold shares pending exercise open storage.
Open market value is an opinion of the best price at which EPRA NAV is a definition of net asset value as set out by the sale of an interest in the property would complete the European Public Real Estate Association.
It represents unconditionally for cash consideration on the date of net assets after excluding mark to market adjustments valuation as determined by the Groups external valuers.
of effective cash flow hedges financial derivatives and deferred tax relating to revaluation movements, capital Profit loss before tax PBT is income less all allowances and derivatives.
Equivalent Yield is a weighted average of the initial Property Income Distribution PID a dividend generally yield and reversionary yield and represents the return subject to withholding tax that a UK REIT is required to a property will produce based upon the timing of the pay from its tax-exempted property rental business and occupancy of the property and timing of the income which is taxable for UK resident shareholders at their receivable.
This is approximated by the reversionary yield marginal tax rate.
multiplied by the Group trend occupancy of 90%.
REIT is a Real Estate Investment Trust as set out in the UK Estimated rental value ERV or market rental value is the Finance Act 2006 Sections 106 and 107.
REITs pay no Groups external valuers opinion as to the open market corporation tax on profits derived from their property rent, which on the date of valuation, could reasonably be rental business.
expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review.
ft. is the net rent divided by the occupied area.
Exceptional items are significant items of income or expense that by virtue of their size, incidence or nature are Rent roll see cash rent roll.
shown separately on the Income Statement to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Reversion reversionary income is the increase in rent estimated by the Groups external valuers, where the Gearing is the Groups net debt as a percentage of net rent is below the current estimated rental value.
increases to rent arise on rent reviews, letting of vacant space, expiry of rent free periods or rental increase steps.
Gearing on adjusted net assets is the Groups net debt as a percentage of net assets excluding mark to market Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial derivative adjustments.
yield will rise to once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
It is calculated by dividing the ERV by the valuation.
Initial yield is the net rents generated by a property or by the portfolio as a whole expressed as a percentage Small and medium sized enterprises SMEs are those of its valuation.
businesses with a turnover of less than 1m p. a. or staff of less than 50.
Most Workspace customers are SME Interest cover is the number of times net interest payable businesses with staffing of up to 20. is covered by operating profit.
Total Shareholder Return TSR is the return obtained by IPD is the Investment Property Databank Ltd, a company a shareholder calculated by combining both share price that produces an independent benchmark movements and dividend receipts.
Trading profit after interest is net rental income, IPD Quarterly Universe is the IPD quarterly universe joint venture trading and finance income, less property fund benchmark of approximately 250 50bn administrative expenses, less finance costs.
Unique web visits is the number of unduplicated counted LIBOR is the British Bankers Association London only once visitors to a website over the course of a Interbank Offer Rate.
Like-for-like are those properties that have been held throughout a 12 month period and have not been subject to a refurbishment or redevelopment programme in the last 24 months.
152 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
