SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION KEY CONTACT DETAILS SHAREHOLDER ADMINISTRATION Registered office and principal UK address Payment of dividends to mandated accounts Hammerson plc Shareholders who do not currently have their dividends paid Kings Place direct to a bank or building society account and who wish to do so 90 York Way should complete a mandate instruction available from the London Registrar or they can register at: www.
N1 9GE Under this arrangement, dividend confirmations are sent to the Registered in England No.
Tel: 44 0 20 7887 1000 Multiple accounts Shareholders who receive more than one copy of communications Principal address in France from the Company may have more than one account in their name Hammerson France SAS on the Companys register of members.
Any shareholder wishing 40 48 rue Cambon to amalgamate such holdings should contact the Registrar.
75001 Paris Scrip Dividend Alternative Scrip Tel: 33 0 156 69 30 00 The Board has decided to offer shareholders a Scrip for the final Registrar dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015, subject to approval For assistance with queries about the administration of by the shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM.
shareholdings, such as lost share certificates, change of address, A Scrip enables participating shareholders to receive shares change of ownership or dividend payments, please contact the instead of cash when a Scrip is offered for a particular dividend.
Registrar: More information is available at www.
Capita Asset Services Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP The Registry Subject to approval of the Scrip by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, 34 Beckenham Road the DRIP will be suspended for any dividend in respect of which a Beckenham Scrip is offered.
Accordingly, the DRIP has been suspended for the Kent 2015 final dividend.
The DRIP will, however, be automatically BR3 4TU reinstated for any dividend, whether interim or final, in respect of which the Directors decide not to offer the Scrip.
Tel: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access charge or 44 0 20 8639 3399 from overseas International payment service calls outside the UK will be charged at the applicable The Registrar facilitates a service to convert sterling dividends international rate.
Lines are open 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, Monday into certain local currencies.
For further information, please to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
contact the Registrar address listed above.
co. uk calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access Website: www.
com charge or 44 0 20 8639 3405 from overseas calls outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are Registering on the Hammerson Share Portal website enables open 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding public shareholders to view their shareholding in the Company, holidays in England and Wales.
including an indicative share price and valuation, a transaction Email: ips@capita.
co. uk audit trail and dividend payment history.
Shareholders can also Further details can be found at: amend certain standing data relating to their accounts.
com Advisors Valuers: DTZ Debenham Tie Leung and Cushman & Wakefield LLP Auditor: Deloitte LLP Solicitor: Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Joint Brokers and Financial Advisors: J. P. Morgan Cazenove and Deutsche Bank AG Financial Advisor: Lazard Ltd 178 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Capita share dealing services UK Real Estate Investment Trust REIT taxation An online and telephone dealing facility is available, providing As a UK REIT, Hammerson plc is exempt from corporation tax shareholders with an easy-to-access and simple-to-use service.
on rental income and gains on UK investment properties but is There is no need to pre-register and there are no complicated required to pay Property Income Distributions PIDs.
The online and telephone dealing service allows shareholders will be taxed on PIDs received at their full marginal shareholders to trade real time at a known price that will be given tax rates.
A REIT may in addition pay normal dividends.
to them at the time they give their instruction.
This is subject to a For most shareholders, PIDs will be paid after deducting credit check for shareholders dealing in shares valued at more withholding tax at the basic rate.
However, certain categories of than the sterling equivalent of 15,000. shareholder are entitled to receive PIDs without withholding tax, For further information on this service, or to buy principally UK resident companies, UK public bodies, UK pension and sell shares, please call Capita on 44 0 371 664 0445.
Calls funds and managers of ISAs, PEPs and Child Trust Funds.
Further are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by information on UK REITs is available on the Companys website, provider.
Calls outside the UK will be charged at the applicable including a form to be used by shareholders to certify if they international rate.
Lines are open 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, Monday to qualify to receive PIDs without withholding tax.
Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
Unsolicited mail Email: info@capitadeal.
com Hammerson is obliged by law to make its share register available Website: www.
com on request to other organisations.
This may result in shareholders receiving unsolicited mail.
To limit the receipt of unsolicited mail ShareGift shareholders may register with the Mailing Preference Service, an Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which independent organisation whose services are free, by visiting makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating www.
Once a shareholders name and address them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity details have been registered, it will advise the companies and other administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation Limited bodies that subscribe to the service not to send unsolicited mail to registered charity number: 1052686, registered company the address registered.
Further information about ShareGift is available at: www.
uk or by writing to ShareGift, The Shareholder security Orr Mackintosh Foundation Limited, 17 Carlton House Terrace, Share fraud includes scams where fraudsters cold-call investors London, SW1Y 5AH or by telephone on 44 0 20 7930 3737. offering them overpriced, worthless or non-existent shares, or offer to buy shares owned by investors at an inflated price.
We Website advise shareholders to be vigilant of unsolicited mail or telephone The Annual Report and other information that shareholders calls regarding buying or selling shares.
For more information may find useful are available on the Companys website: visit: www.
uk scams or call the FCA Consumer Helpline www.
The Company operates a service whereby on 0800 111 6768. all registered users can choose to receive via email notice of all Company announcements which can also be viewed on the website.
COM 179 Shareholder information continued FINANCIAL CALENDAR AND SHARE ANALYSIS Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am on 25 April 2016 at Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GE.
Details of the Meeting and the resolutions to be voted upon can be found in the Notice of Meeting which is available at www.
