OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GLOSSARY GLOSSARY Reported amounts adjusted in accordance with EPRA guidelines to exclude certain items as set Adjusted figures per share out in note 10 to the accounts.
Anchor store A major store, usually a department, variety or DIY store or supermarket, occupying a large unit within a shopping centre or retail park, which serves as a draw to other retailers and consumers.
Average cost of borrowing or The cost of finance expressed as a percentage of the weighted average of borrowings during the period.
weighted average interest rate WAIR BCSC British Council of Shopping Centres.
A not-for-profit professional body supporting the retail property industry which undertakes research and lobbies government on behalf of its members.
Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Method.
BREEAM Capital return The change in property value during the period after taking account of capital expenditure and exchange translation movements, calculated on a monthly time-weighted basis.
A Compulsory Purchase Order is a legal function in the UK by which land or property can be Compulsory Purchase Order obtained to enable a development or infrastructure scheme without the consent of the owner CPO where there is a compelling case in the public interest.
Cost ratio or EPRA cost ratio Total operating costs being property costs, administration costs less management fees as a percentage of gross rental income, after rents payable.
Both operating costs and gross rental income are adjusted for costs associated with inclusive leases.
A measure of inflation based on the weighted average of prices of CPI consumer goods and services.
Dividend cover Adjusted earnings per share divided by dividend per share.
Earnings per share EPS Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders divided by the average number of shares in issue during the period.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
EBITDA The European Public Real Estate Association, a real estate industry body.
This organisation has EPRA issued Best Practice Recommendations with the intention of improving the transparency, comparability and relevance of the published results of listed real estate companies in Europe.
Equivalent yield true and nominal The capitalisation rate applied to future cash flows to calculate the gross property value.
The cash flows reflect the timing of future rents resulting from lettings, lease renewals and rent reviews based on current ERVs.
The true equivalent yield TEY assumes rents are received quarterly in advance.
The nominal equivalent yield NEY assumes rents are received annually in arrears.
The property true and nominal equivalent yields are determined by the Groups external valuers.
ERV The estimated market rental value of the total lettable space in a property calculated by the Groups external valuers.
It is calculated after deducting head and equity rents, and car parking and commercialisation running costs.
Gearing Net debt expressed as a percentage of equity shareholders funds.
Gross property value or Gross Property value before deduction of purchasers costs, as provided by the Groups external valuers.
asset value GAV Income from rents, car parks and commercial income, after accounting for the net effect of the Gross rental income GRI amortisation of lease incentives.
IAS IFRS International Accounting Standard International Financial Reporting Standard.
Inclusive lease A lease, often for a short period of time, under which the rent is inclusive of costs such as service charge, rates, utilities etc.
Instead, the landlord incurs these costs as part of the overall commercial arrangement.
Income return The income derived from a property as a percentage of the property value, taking account of capital expenditure and exchange translation movements, calculated on a time-weighted basis.
Initial yield or Net initial Annual cash rents receivable net of head and equity rents and the cost of vacancy, and, in the case of France, net of an allowance for costs of approximately 5%, primarily for management yield NIY fees, as a percentage of gross property value, as provided by the Groups external valuers.
Rents receivable following the expiry of rent-free periods are not included.
Rent reviews are assumed to have been settled at the contractual review date at ERV.
Net rental income divided by net cost of finance before exceptional finance costs, capitalised Interest cover interest and change in fair value of derivatives.
COM 181 Glossary continued An agreement with another party to exchange an interest or currency rate obligation for a Interest rate or currency swap pre-determined period of time.
or derivatives Investment Property Databank.
An organisation supplying independent market indices and IPD portfolio benchmarks to the property industry.
Like-for-like LFL NRI The percentage change in net rental income for completed investment properties owned throughout both current and prior periods, after taking account of exchange translation movements.
Net debt expressed as a percentage of the property portfolio value calculated on a proportionally LTV Loan to value consolidated basis.
Net asset value NAV per share Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of shares in issue at the balance sheet date.
Net rental income NRI Income from rents, car parks and commercial income, after deducting head and equity rents payable, and other property related costs.
The ERV of the area in a property, or portfolio, excluding developments, which is let, expressed Occupancy rate as a percentage of the total ERV of that property or portfolio.
Over-rented The amount, or percentage, by which the ERV falls short of rents passing, together with the estimated rental value of vacant space.
The annual rental income receivable from an investment property, after any rent-free periods Passing rents or rents passing and after deducting head and equity rents and car parking and commercialisation running costs.
This may be more or less than the ERV see over-rented and reversionary or under-rented.
Pre-let A lease signed with a tenant prior to the completion of a development.
Property Income Distribution PID A dividend, generally subject to withholding tax, that a UK REIT is required to pay from its tax-exempt property rental business and which is taxable for UK-resident shareholders at their marginal tax rate.
The Groups non-wholly owned properties which management proportionally consolidates Property interests when reviewing the performance of the business.
These exclude the Groups premium outlets interests in Value Retail and VIA Outlets which are not proportionally consolidated.
Property joint ventures The Groups shopping centre and retail park joint ventures which management proportionally consolidate when reviewing the performance of the business, but exclude the Groups interests in the VIA Outlets joint venture.
A tax regime which in the UK exempts participants from REIT corporation tax both on UK rental income and gains arising on UK investment property sales, subject to certain requirements.
Reported Group The financial results as presented under IFRS which represent the Groups 100% owned properties, transactions and balances and equity account for the Groups interests in joint ventures and associates.
Capital growth and profit for the period expressed as a percentage of equity shareholders funds Return on shareholders equity at the beginning of the year, all excluding deferred tax and certain non-recurring items.
ROE Reversionary or under-rented The amount, or percentage, by which the ERV exceeds the rents passing, together with the estimated rental value of vacant space.
A measure of inflation based on the change in the cost of a representative sample of retail goods and services.
SIIC Socits dInvestissements Immobiliers Ctes.
A tax regime in France which exempts participants from the French tax on property income and gains subject to certain requirements.
All capital expenditure on a development project, including capitalised interest.
Total development cost TDC Total property return TPR Net rental income and capital growth expressed as a percentage of the opening book value of property adjusted for capital expenditure and exchange translation movements, calculated on a or total return monthly time-weighted basis.
Total shareholder return TSR Dividends and capital growth in a Companys share price, expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the year.
Turnover rent Rental income which is related to an occupiers turnover.
Vacancy rate The ERV of the area in a property, or portfolio, excluding developments, which is currently available for letting, expressed as a percentage of the ERV of that property or portfolio.
Owner and operator of luxury outlet Villages in Europe in which the Group has an investment.
Value Retail VR A premium outlets joint venture, in which the Group has an investment.
VIA owns and operates VIA Outlets VIA premium outlet centres in Europe.
Yield on cost Passing rents expressed as a percentage of the total development cost of a property.
