Evaluation Mitigation Melrose Industries PLC 36 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review Risk management Melrose operates in a variety of sectors and countries and is exposed to a wide range of risks and uncertainties from a strategic, operational, compliance and financial perspective.
Risk management framework A summary of the principal risks and Risk management priorities The objectives of the Directors and senior uncertainties that could impact on the for 2015 management are to safeguard and increase Groups performance is shown on pages The Board recognises that operating in a the value of the business and assets of the 38 to 41.
Further information detailing dynamic and rapidly evolving commercial Group.
Achievement of these objectives the internal control and risk management environment requires a pragmatic, flexible requires the development of policies and policies and procedures operated within and responsive risk management framework appropriate internal control frameworks to the Group is shown on page 71 of the that changes with the business and provides ensure the Groups resources are managed Corporate Governance report.
management with a comprehensive view properly and any key risks are identified of the Groups risk profile at any given time.
2014 Risk management review and mitigated, where possible.
In 2014, the Board initiated a root and Following the 2014 risk management audit, The Board recognises that it is ultimately branch audit and review of the risk BDO LLP have been engaged to support responsible for determining the nature and management framework and underlying the Board in developing an enhanced extent of the principal risks it is willing to take processes in operation in every business risk management framework and in in achieving its strategic objectives.
It also across the Melrose Group.
The exercise implementing a programme to promote recognises the need to maintain sound risk was led by the Company Secretary and and embed a more risk-aware culture management and internal control systems.
supported by risk consultants, BDO LLP.
Specific Audit meetings were conducted by priorities for the Group in 2015 include: The Audit Committee monitors the the Company Secretary with senior effectiveness of the internal control processes Reviewing the Boards risk appetite and, management from each business unit.
implemented across the Group, through where appropriate, updating the Melrose The review focused on the degree to a review of the key findings presented by Risk Policy and Strategy: which risk management arrangements the external and internal auditors and are guided by strategic direction and the Developing and implementing an discussions with senior management.
extent to which appropriate processes enhanced and more consistent risk The Board is responsible for considering are in place for the identification, management governance framework Audit Committee recommendations and evaluation, prioritisation, recording, across the Group.
This will define the ensuring implementation by management monitoring and reporting of risk within Melrose principles for risk management of those recommendations it deems the businesses.
The results of this audit and set the standards for the appropriate for the business.
exercise were presented to the Board identification, evaluation, prioritisation, The Group operates on a fide-centralised and an action plan detailing the key risk recording, review and reporting of risks basis and the Board has established an management priorities was agreed.
and their management or mitigation organisational structure with clear reporting throughout the organisation: procedures, lines of responsibility and Rolling out a Group-wide education delegated authority, as depicted in the and training programme designed to diagram opposite.
instill and embed a culture of effective risk management against a consistently applied framework: Risk management framework Embedding the risk management Identification Evaluation programme through a series of risk Financial and Risk exposure workshops.
These will be attended by non-financial risks reviewed and risk champions from each business recorded in controlled risks prioritised unit and will provide a forum for sharing risk registers learning and refining risk tools and processes: and Reviewing and improving our processes around the assessment of principal risks and the monitoring and reporting of the Mitigation Analysis Groups risk management performance.
Risk owners Risks analysed Invariably, this may require slight revisions identified and action for impact to the priorities attached to the principal plans implemented and probability risks already identified in this report.
to determine Robust mitigation strategy gross exposure subject to regular and rigorous review Identication Analysis Performance Review Melrose Industries PLC 37 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review Risks and uncertainties Governance overview More information p38 More information p60 The Board The Board has approved a formalised but pragmatic Group risk management framework.
Identifying risks The identification and management of risks across the Group are integral to the Groups strategic objectives.
They are vital in helping protect the Groups businesses, its people and its reputation.
Board Overall responsibility for risk management Audit Committee Monitors the effectiveness of the Groups internal control processes Elster Elster Elster Energy Gas Electricity Water Divisional Senior Managers Operational Managers and Financial Controllers
