Melrose Industries PLC 38 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review Risks and uncertainties The table below lists the principal risks and uncertainties that may affect the Group and highlights the mitigating actions that are being taken and the opportunities that the Group aims to exploit.
The content of the table, however, is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all the risks and uncertainties that may arise.
A risk management and internal controls framework is in place within the Group to ensure that such risks and uncertainties can be identified and where possible managed suitably.
Each Group business maintains a risk register which is reviewed regularly.
Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Responsibility Risk trend Strategic priorities Strategic risk Acquisition of new As per the Groups strategy to buy and improve good underperforming manufacturing businesses, Structured and focused due diligence undertaken.
Executive Buy Improve Sell 1 businesses and there is a risk that the Group will not succeed in driving strategic operational improvements to management Focus on acquisition targets that have strong headline improvement strategies generate value post acquisition.
In making acquisitions, there is a risk of unforeseen liabilities being fundamentals high quality products, leading market discovered which are not known at the time of the due diligence process but which arose in share but are underperforming their potential and ability the business before it was acquired.
The success of the Groups acquisition strategy depends to generate sustainable cash flows and profit growth.
on identifying targets, obtaining authorisations and having the necessary financing.
Even if an acquisition is completed, the acquired products and technologies may not be successful or may Hands-on role taken by Directors and other senior require significantly greater resources and investment than anticipated.
If anticipated benefits employees of the Group.
Development of strategic are not realised or trading by acquired businesses falls below expectations, it may be necessary plans, restructuring opportunities, capital expenditure to impair the carrying value of these assets.
The Groups return on capital employed may fall if and working capital management.
acquisition hurdle rates are not met.
The Groups financial performance may suffer from goodwill or other acquisition-related impairment charges, or from the identification of additional liabilities not known at the time of the acquisition.
Timing of disposals In line with our strategy and depending where the Group is within the buy, improve and sell Directors are experienced in judging and regularly reviewing Executive Buy Improve Sell 1 strategic cycle, the expected timing of disposal of companies is considered as a principal risk which the appropriate time in a business cycle for disposal to realise management could have a material impact on the Group strategy.
Further, due to the Groups global operations, maximum value for shareholders.
there may be a significant impact on timing of disposal due to political and macroeconomic factors.
Each disposal is assessed on its merits, with a key focus on Depending on the timings of disposals and nature of companies operations there may be long-term a clean disposal.
liabilities which could be retained by the Group.
Insufficient allowance for retained liabilities may also affect the Groups financial position.
Operational risk Economic and The Group operates, through manufacturing and or sales facilities, in over 50 countries and Diverse range of companies operating within the Group, within Executive Buy Improve Sell 1 political risk is affected by global economic conditions particularly in the US and Europe.
Businesses are a variety of different industries and countries, which reduces management also affected by government spending priorities and the willingness of governments to commit macro-economic and political risks.
Current global economic and financial market conditions and the potential Regular monitoring of order books and other leading indicators, for a significant and prolonged global recession may materially and adversely affect the Groups to ensure the Group and each of its businesses can respond operational performance, financial condition and could have significant impact on timing of quickly to any adverse trading conditions.
This includes the acquisitions and disposals.
identification of cost reduction and efficiency measures.
A recession may also materially affect customers, suppliers and other parties with which the Group does business.
Adverse economic and financial market conditions may cause customers to terminate existing orders, to reduce their purchases from the Group, or to be unable to meet their obligations to pay outstanding debts to the Group.
These market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to the Group or to change the credit terms they extend to Group businesses.
Loss of key management The success of the Group is built upon strong management teams.
As a result, the loss of key Succession planning within the Group and its various businesses Executive Buy Improve Sell 1 personnel can have a significant impact on performance, at least for a time.
The loss of key is co-ordinated via the Nomination Committee in conjunction management personnel or the failure to plan adequately for succession or develop new talent may impact with the Board and includes all Directors and senior employees.
the reputation of the Group, or lead to a disruption in the leadership of the business.
Competition The Company recognises that, as with most businesses, for personnel is intense and the Group may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified particularly those operating within a technical field, it is personnel, particularly engineering professionals.
The loss of key employees, the Groups dependent on Directors and employees with particular inability to attract new and adequately trained employees, or a delay in hiring key personnel, managerial, engineering or technical skills.
Appropriate could seriously harm the Groups business.
Over time, the Groups competitive advantage is remuneration packages and long-term incentive arrangements defined by the quality of its people: should the Group fail to attract, develop and retain key talent, are offered in an effort to retain such individuals.
in time the competitive advantage will erode, leading to weaker growth potential or returns in particular with significant restructuring activities undertaken to improve the acquired businesses.
Performance Review Melrose Industries PLC 39 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Responsibility Risk trend Strategic priorities Strategic risk Acquisition of new As per the Groups strategy to buy and improve good underperforming manufacturing businesses, Structured and focused due diligence undertaken.
1 Comprises executive Directors and Melrose senior management.
Risk trend Increasing Constant Decreasing Melrose Industries PLC 40 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review Risks and uncertainties continued Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Responsibility Risk trend Strategic priorities Compliance and ethical risk Legal, regulatory and There is a risk that the Group may not always be in complete compliance with laws, regulations Regular monitoring of legal and regulatory matters at both a Executive Buy Improve Sell 1 intellectual property IP or permits, for example concerning environmental or safety requirements.
The Group could Group and business unit level.
Consultation with external management be held responsible for liabilities and consequences arising from past or future environmental advisers where necessary.
damage, including potentially significant remedial costs.
There can also be no assurance that Development of suitable corporate governance and compliance any provisions for expected environmental liabilities and remediation costs will adequately procedures both at a Group and business unit level.
cover these liabilities or costs.
Protection of rights over trademarks, copyright, patents, The Group operates in highly regulated sectors.
In addition, new legislation, regulations or designs and trade secrets, where necessary.
certification requirements may require additional expense, restrict commercial flexibility and business strategies or introduce additional liabilities for the Company or Directors.
Should a regulators approval process take a particularly long time, our products may be delayed in getting to market, which could lead to a loss of revenue or benefit a competitor with a similar product.
Failure to comply with certain regulations may result in significant financial penalties, debarment from government contracts and or reputational damage and impact our business strategy.
Financial risk Foreign exchange rate Due to the global nature of operations and volatility in the foreign exchange market, exchange The Group policy is to protect against the majority of foreign Executive Buy Improve Sell 1 rate fluctuations have and could continue to have a material impact on the reported results.
exchange risk which affects cash, by hedging such risks with management The Group is exposed to three types of currency risk: transaction risk, translation risk and risk financial instruments.
that when a business that is predominantly based in a foreign currency is sold, it is sold in that Protection against specific transaction risks is taken by the foreign currency.
The Groups reported results will fluctuate as average exchange rates change.
The Groups reported net assets will fluctuate as the year-end exchange rate changes.
Pensions As at 31 December 2014, the Group has legacy defined benefit pension plans, with aggregate Each of the Groups key funded pension plans are now closed Executive Buy Improve Sell 1 net liabilities of 218.5 million on an accounting basis.
Changes in discount rates, inflation, to new entrants and future service accrual.
Long-term funding management asset values or mortality assumptions could lead to a materially higher deficit.
For example, arrangements are agreed with each of these plans and reviewed the cost of a buyout on a discontinued basis uses more conservative assumptions and is likely following completion of actuarial valuations.
Other pension plans to be significantly higher than the accounting deficit.
In addition, there is a risk that the plans exist within the Group but these are largely unfunded plans assets, such as investments in equity and debt securities, will not be sufficient to cover the whereby funding plans are not required and benefit obligations value of those benefits.
The implications of a higher pension deficit include a direct impact on are paid when due.
valuation, credit rating and potential additional funding requirements at subsequent triennial Active management of pension plan assets.
In the event of a major disposal, that generates significant cash proceeds which are returned to the shareholders, the Group may be required to make additional cash payments to the plans or provide additional security.
Liquidity The Group has 571.8 million of gross debt as at 31 December 2014.
The ability to refinance Ensure the Company has adequate resources to meet its Executive Buy Improve Sell 1 its borrowings in the bank or capital markets is dependent on market conditions and the proper liabilities by reviewing its quarterly forecasts, ensuring there management functioning of financial markets.
Furthermore, in line with the Groups strategy, investment is is sufficient headroom within committed bank facilities to made in the businesses capital expenditure in excess of depreciation and there is a requirement cope with market volatility.
to assess liquidity and headroom when new businesses are acquired and the Group may be unable to refinance its debt when it falls due.
Performance Review Melrose Industries PLC 41 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Responsibility Risk trend Strategic priorities Compliance and ethical risk Legal, regulatory and There is a risk that the Group may not always be in complete compliance with laws, regulations Regular monitoring of legal and regulatory matters at both a Executive Buy Improve Sell 1 intellectual property IP or permits, for example concerning environmental or safety requirements.
Risk trend Increasing Constant Decreasing
