Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties The Group, in common with all businesses, could be affected by risks A full risk register has been developed for on-going evaluation and that could have a material effect on its short and longer-term financial mitigation and the following are the key risks, potential impacts and performance.
These risks could cause actual results to differ materially mitigations that are relevant to the Group as a provider of software from forecasts or historic results.
Where possible, the Group seeks to products and associated services.
Please also refer to the section mitigate these risks through its system of internal controls but this can on internal controls within the corporate governance report on only provide reasonable assurance and not absolute assurance against pages 28 to 31. material losses.
Principal risks have been identified in the following four categories With regard to the Groups objectives, the board and executive Products, Go to Market Models, Competition and Employees.
management team have identified and prioritized the key risks and reviewed the controls in place for management to mitigate those risks.
Products Risk Mitigation To remain successful the Group must ensure that its products In the year ended 30 April 2013 we appointed a new General continue to meet the requirements of customers.
Investment in Manager responsible for Product Management, Product Development, research and innovation in product development is essential to Marketing and Customer Care, with the remit to improve the meet customer and partner requirements in order to maximize interaction between Product Management, Product Development, revenues and corporate performance.
The Group has a large Sales and Marketing.
The Group has developed a structured approach number of products, at differing stages of their life cycle.
to managing its products, which will be further enhanced during the The extent of investment in each product set needs to be year ended 30 April 2015. managed and prioritized considering the expected future prospects.
During the year ended 30 April 2014 the Group has also strengthened Potential impact its product portfolio through three acquisitions.
Two of these If products do not meet the requirements of customers they will acquisitions added additional products, strengthening the Group seek alternative solutions, resulting in the loss of new revenue position in existing markets, the third, SoforTe GmbH, was acquired opportunities and the cancellation of existing contracts.
Insufficient for its technology and development expertize, enabling more rapid focus on key research and development projects may damage the development of the Groups Enterprise Developer product in order to long-term growth prospects of the Group.
Poor cross-selling of meet customer requirements.
Micro Focus products will reduce the prospects for additional revenue streams going forward.
Go to Market models Risk Mitigation For the Group to succeed in meeting revenue and growth targets Revenue plans are supported by a range of measures to monitor and it requires successful Go to Market models across the full product drive improvements in Go to Market operating models.
In addition to portfolio, with effective strategies and plans to exploit channel quarterly business reviews with all geographies and monthly reviews opportunities and focus the sales force on all types of customer with regional presidents, the President of Sales participates in weekly categories.
In addition, effective Go to Market models will be management team meetings to review sales performance and Go to more successful if accompanied by compelling Micro Focus brand Market priorities.
Customer sales cycles are reviewed regularly and a bid review process Potential impact is in place to monitor and maximize customer revenue opportunities.
Poor execution of Go to Market plans may limit the success of In addition to sales performance reviews, marketing and product the Group by targeting the wrong customers through the wrong development programmes are assessed regularly to optimize levels channels and using the wrong product offerings.
of qualified pipeline and ensure that marketing programmes are supported by appropriate product offerings.
18 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes Go to Market models A series of measures are in place to focus the direction of the sales In the year ended 30 April 2013 we introduced an internal sales force towards a broad range of customer categories.
These measures certification programme, to improve the level of expertise across include detailed bid management, tailored quota targets and robust our sales force.
This programme was fully rolled out during the pre-sales management.
In addition, brand awareness programmes are in place and reviewed In the year ended 30 April 2014 we launched the Micro Focus Sales on an on-going basis to draw on differentiated and consistent PR plans Academy, a new initiative, through which we hired an additional across key geographies.
These are supported by targeted industry 56 graduate sales representatives to enhance our sales capability analyst relations to reach and raise Micro Focus brand awareness and train up new talent with the potential to progress within the through key marketplace influencers.
Brand building is also supported sales organization.
52 of these graduates successfully completed by a growing customer reference programme and online programmes a 13 week intensive training programme and have now been such as effective search engine optimization, use of social media and deployed into a variety of sales and pre-sales roles across the improved corporate websites.
These new recruits are already making a positive contribution to the sales organization and a further intake of 30 graduates has been enrolled into a second Academy commencing 30 June 2014.
Competition Risk Mitigation Comprehensive information about the markets in which Micro Focus Group product plans contain analysis of competitive threats operates is required for the Group to assess competitive risks and subscriptions to industry analyst firms are leveraged to effectively and to perform successfully.
better understand market dynamics and competitor strategies.
In addition, customer contact programmes are mined for Potential impact competitive intelligence.
Failure to understand the competitive landscape adequately and thereby identify where competitive threats exist may damage the successful sales of the Groups products.
Employees Risk training, career development and long-term financial incentives.
The retention and recruitment of highly skilled and motivated Leadership training schemes are in place to support management employees, at all levels of the Group, is critical to the success and development and succession plans.
At the start of the year ended future growth of the Group in all countries in which it currently 30 April 2012 a renewed vision and corporate objectives was shared operates.
Employees require clear business objectives, and a well throughout the organization and continues to be reinforced through communicated vision and values, for the Group to achieve alignment regular employee communications plans and performance reviews.
and a common sense of corporate purpose among the workforce.
The Micro Focus Sales Academy has been a key initiative during Potential impact the year ended 30 April 2014 to attract new talent to the sales Failure to retain and develop skill sets, particularly in sales and organization.
As well as running a further Sales Academy, a research and development may hinder the Groups sales and Development Academy will be launched during the year ended development plans.
Weak organizational alignment and inadequate 30 April 2015, focused on addressing areas of potential medium incentivization may lead to poor performance and instability.
to long-term skills shortages within the development organization.
Mitigation Succession plans have been developed and are in place for key The Group has policies in place to help ensure that it is able to attract leadership positions within the Company.
and retain employees with the required skills.
These policies include Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19
