Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes the external audit partner: the nature and level of services provided by It recognizes that rigorous systems of internal control are critical to the the external auditors: and confirmation from the external auditors that Groups achievement of its business objectives, that those systems are they have complied with relevant UK independence standards.
designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and that they can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material External audit appointment misstatement or loss.
The committee reviews and makes recommendations with regard to the reappointment of the external auditors.
In making these There is an on-going internal process for identifying, evaluating and recommendations, the committee considers auditor effectiveness managing the significant risks faced by the Group in association with and independence, partner rotation and any other factors that may the work performed by the outsourced internal audit function.
This impact the external auditors reappointment.
The external auditors are process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of required to rotate the audit partner every five years.
The most recent approval of the report and accounts and it is regularly reviewed by the change in audit partner happened in the year ended 30 April 2013 board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
and, therefore, partner rotation is due in the year ended 30 April 2018.
The current external auditors, PwC, have been auditors As part of the process that the Group has in place to review the since IPO.
The committee is confident that the effectiveness and effectiveness of the internal control system, there are procedures independence of the external auditors is not impaired in any way.
designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the There are no contractual restrictions on the choice of external auditors case of those categorised by the board as significant, procedures exist and therefore a resolution proposing the reappointment of PwC to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy any such failings.
as external auditors will be put to the shareholders at the 2014 The review covers all material controls, including financial, operational Annual General Meeting.
The committee will continue to assess the and compliance controls.
effectiveness and independence of the external auditors.
In doing so, the committee will consider a formal tender process in accordance The committee reports on a regular basis to the board on the Groups with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and internal financial control procedures and makes recommendations the European Commission Audit Reform proposals.
The committee to the board in this area.
are monitoring the current proposals on tendering and once they are finalised will determine when the Groups audit should be placed The external auditors provide a supplementary, independent and out to tender.
autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal control system which they assess in the course of their work.
Their findings are Internal audit regularly reported to both the committee and the board.
An outsourced internal audit function continues to be provided by KPMG.
The Groups Chief Financial Officer provides oversight and The key elements of the control system are: co-ordination of internal audit.
In order to ensure independence, internal audit has a direct reporting line to the audit committee The Group operates a structured, objectives-driven approach to and its chairman.
fulfil its core purpose and goals in respect of sustained profitability and growth: The committee monitored and reviewed the scope and results of the internal auditors activities as well as its effectiveness during the year.
Systems and procedures are in place for all major transaction types The annual internal audit plan is approved by the committee at the with appropriate authorisation controls: beginning of the financial year, with any subsequent changes to the plan requiring committee approval.
The nature and scope of internal All contracts are reviewed.
The level of review depends on the size audits work is reviewed and approved and the results of the audits are and complexity of the contracts and associated risks.
There are assessed alongside managements responses.
Issues with the audit formal limits above which the review level is escalated: reports which are graded as needing improvement are considered in detail by the committee along with the appropriateness of mitigation Reconciliations are performed on a timely basis for all major plans to resolve issues identified.
accounts: and At each meeting, the committee received reports from KPMG, Research and development and capital expenditure programmes in order to ascertain progress in completing the internal audit plan are subject to formal review and monitoring procedures.
and to review results of the audits.
Effective internal control and risk management The board is ultimately responsible for establishing and monitoring internal control systems throughout the Group and reviewing their effectiveness.
It carries out a review, at least annually, covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35
