36 Strategic report Our risks Like any other business, we are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, which are influenced by both internal and external factors, often outside our control.
In this section, we describe the principal risks that could have a material effect on the Groups business activities.
Risk factors Management of risk We provide information on the nature Our risk management activity is directed of the risk, actions taken to mitigate risk by the Executive Management Committee, exposure and an indication of whether led by the Group Chief Executive Officer, the type of risk is increasing, reducing and is monitored by the Head of Risk or remains largely unchanged.
Not all and Internal Audit.
Risk registers are potential risks are listed below.
Some compiled, and periodically updated, risks are excluded because the Board which map the nature of the risks relative considers them not material to the Group to their likelihood of occurrence and as a whole.
Our processes aim to provide severity and associated trends.
Individual reasonable, not absolute, assurance that management committee members are the risks significant to our business have assigned responsibility for devising risk been identified and addressed.
Additionally, treatment plans to eliminate, minimise or there may be risks that are not reasonably transfer risks.
The Group Chief Executive foreseeable at the date of this report for Officer and members of the Executive the Group to assess fully their potential Management Committee undertake impact on the business.
The order in which regular reviews of the risk register and risks are presented below is not indicative progress with risk management plans.
of the relative potential impact on the The Board has overall responsibility Group.
The potential effect of these risks for the risk management process and may be material to the Groups business by for ensuring that the Groups risks are having an impact on revenues, profits, net managed appropriately and, either directly assets and financial and other resources.
or through the Audit & Risk Committee, Such risks also have the potential to impact reviews the effectiveness of the Groups on the Groups reputation.
It is often risk management processes and other difficult to assess with accuracy the likely internal controls.
The Head of Risk and impact of an event on reputation, as any Internal Audit provides the Audit & Risk damage often may be disproportionate Committee with a quarterly update of risk to the events actual financial impact.
In management activity and the risk register.
general, the geographical spread of the Group provides a natural hedge against many of the principal risks identified on the following pages.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 37 Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Status Events that Sustained levels of occupancy and room rates can be The Group has in place contingency and recovery Stable adversely impact adversely affected by events that reduce domestic or plans to enable it to respond to major incidents domestic or international travel.
Such events may include acts of or crises.
international travel terrorism, war or perceived increased risk of armed conflict, epidemics, natural disasters, increased cost The wide geographical spread countries, cities of travel and industrial action.
These events may be is a natural hedge.
localised to a particular country, region or could have a wider international perspective, especially where a large airport, for example, is a major hub for worldwide travel.
Reduced demand will impact on revenues and operational profitability.
Political and Major events affecting either economic or political Many of these risks are beyond the control Increasing economic stability on a global and regional level represent an of the Group and the time-frames for developing - Middle developments exposure to the Group.
Economic events could include appropriate risk management approaches East Asia recessionary pressures which would have an impact on can often be very short.
the Groups revenues, operating costs and profitability.
Political risks include changes in the political and or Management is continually vigilant to political and regulatory environment in which the Groups business economic developments and seeks to identify activities operate, including restrictions on the emerging risks at the earliest opportunity.
The repatriation of funds or control over the ownership Group implements ownership structures, internal of assets.
controls and takes such steps available to it to minimise these exposures to the greatest extent possible.
The wide geographical spread of our hotels is a natural hedge.
The hotel industry The hotel industry operates in an inherently cyclical The Group has management systems in place Stable supply and market place.
A weakening of demand, or an increase designed to create flexibility in the operating cost demand cycle in market room supply, may lead to downward pressure base so as to optimise operating profits in volatile on room rates which in turn would lead to a negative trading conditions, such as the profit protection effect on operating performance.
plans initiated during previous market downturns.
Quality of product We compete based on a number of factors, including At property level, we have regular and scheduled Increasing quality and consistency of product.
Lack of investment preventive maintenance programs.
At Group level, in the furnishings and plant could have a significant asset enhancements are undertaken periodically.
impact on the revenues that the hotels could earn.
As Technological advancements and system upgrades supply increases, particularly in our key gateway cities, are an ongoing process.
The Groups stated business may be lost to newer hotels, or rates may objective is to reinvest one-third of its EBITDA.
have to be cut to remain competitive.
Increasing Our hotel rooms are booked through a number of The Group continues to refresh its marketing Increasing dependence on distribution channels, one of which is OTAs, which strategy, including investment in e-commerce, online travel tend to have higher commission rates than more relationship management, reservation systems agents OTAs traditional distribution channels, and are taking an and loyalty offering.
A new state of the art Internet increasing share of bookings across the sector.
Booking Engine IBE was implemented in 2014 providing a strong platform for future This may impact our profitability.
In addition, over time, enhancements.
consumers may develop loyalties to the OTAs rather than to our brand.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 38 Strategic report Our risks continued Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Status Human resources Execution of the Groups strategy depends on its The Group has appropriate systems for Stable ability to attract, develop and retain employees with recruitment, reward and compensation and the appropriate skills, experience and aptitude.
Labour relations are actively managed on a regional and local basis.
The development of people and having good succession planning processes is a key part of the Group's HR stategy.
The Group has a strong service culture supported by recognition systems, compensation and benefits arrangements, training and development programmes.
Management An element of the Groups strategy is to selectively The Group has developed a management Stable agreements increase the number of management contracts team in the Middle East region that has the to operate hotels owned by third-parties, primarily necessary skills and resources to pursue this focusing on the Middle East region.
In this regard, the element of the Groups strategy.
A structured Group faces competition from established global and process for acquiring new contracts has been regional brands.
Successful execution of this strategy implemented and a priority is to ensure that will depend on the Groups ability to identify suitable the critical roles are filled and operational management opportunities, secure contracts on management is integrated into the Group system.
suitable contractual terms and ensure that contractual commitments are met and retained going forward.
Joint ventures The Group has entered into a number of joint For these joint ventures, the Group has Stable and subsidiaries ventures in certain markets and is therefore appointed representatives who are assigned with minority subject to the risk of non-performance on the responsibility to manage the relationship with shareholders part of the partners, especially when the strategic the joint venture partners in order to enhance objectives of the partners are not fully aligned.
the alignment of business objectives.
Treasury risk The Group trades in numerous international Foreign currency transactions exposure is primarily Stable currencies but reports its financial results in sterling.
managed through funding of purchases from Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may either operating income streams arising in the same be accretive or dilutive to the Groups reported currency.
Interest rate hedges are used to manage trading results and the Groups net asset value.
interest rate risk to the extent that the perceived Unhedged interest rate exposures pose a risk to cost is considered to outweigh the benefit from the Group when interest rates rise, resulting in the flexibility of variable rate borrowings.
increased costs of funding and an impact on overall The Group actively monitors the need and financial performance.
Credit risk arises from the timing of such hedges.
Investments in shortrisk of financial loss if a financial counterparty term instruments are with counterparties fails to meet its contractual obligations in respect approved by the Board taking into account the of its deposits or short term investments.
counterpartys credit rating and a maximum limit as to the amount that may be deposited.
Tax risk The Groups businesses operate in numerous The Group seeks to minimise tax risk by Stable tax jurisdictions.
Changes in tax laws in any ensuring that appropriate accounting systems, of those jurisdictions may have adverse processes and internal controls are in place for consequences on the Groups profits.
accuracy of computation and timely payment of taxes.
A co-operative approach is undertaken Similarly the Groups interpretation and application of in respect of provision of information to tax various tax laws may be challenged.
Tax authorities authorities during tax audits and investigations, in many jurisdictions are increasing their focus on and external tax advisors are engaged in each corporate tax affairs in order to maximise tax receipts.
tax jurisdiction where necessary to advise on such matters, and to give guidance on the implementation of any changes in tax legislation.
Full review of tax implications is carried out prior to undertaking any transactions involving new activities or structural changes, and external tax planning advice is obtained where appropriate.
The Board and Audit & Risk Committee receive regular updates on tax management issues.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 39 Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Status Compliance The Group operates in many jurisdictions and The Group continues to monitor changes Stable and litigation is exposed to the risk of non-compliance with in the regulatory environment in which it increasingly complex statutory and regulatory operates, identify its compliance obligations requirements, including competition law, anti-bribery and implement appropriate compliance and and corruption and data privacy compliance regimes.
The Group has processes in place to manage the risks associated with In addition, the Group may be at risk of litigation its various contractual relationships, from from various parties with which it interacts, either execution through to termination, and insured through direct contractual arrangements or as a and uninsured litigation.
In addition, the Group result of providing services to customers.
In certain has comprehensive policies for ethics and countries where the Group operates, particularly business conduct, anti-corruption and bribery, in emerging markets, local practices and the legal gifts and hospitality and charitable donations.
environment may be such that it is sometimes difficult for the Group to enforce its legal rights.
Safety, health and As a significant property owner and operator In addition to the Groups corporate social Stable environment of hotels in multiple jurisdictions, the Group is responsibility initiatives, the Group has exposed to a wide range of regulatory requirements established and maintains health and safety and obligations concerning the health and safety and environmental management systems of employees, visitors and guests.
Failure to that are aligned with the requirements of ISO implement and maintain sufficient controls regarding 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
By working to British health and safety issues could expose the Group standards, the Group is committed to working to significant sanctions, both civil and criminal, to the highest standards of health and safety financial penalties and reputational damage.
and to an internationally accredited system.
Intellectual Future development will, in part, be dependent on Substantial investment continues to be Increasing property rights the recognition of the Groups brands and perception made in protecting the Groups brands from and brands of the values inherent in those brands.
Consistent misuse and infringement, by way of trade delivery of product quality is vitally important to mark registration, enforcement of intellectual influencing consumer preference and creating and property rights and domain name protection.
Historically the Group Management seeks to ensure maintenance has mainly operated properties which it owns.
The of standards by developing strong working trend towards managing third-party properties, relationships with hotel owners and undertaking primarily in the Middle East region increases the regular monitoring of service delivery.
risk that product quality may not be delivered in accordance with the Groups standards.
This may increase the Groups exposure to litigation, increase risks to reputation, reduce revenues and become an inhibiting factor on ongoing development.
Property ownership The Groups strategy is to be both owner and The Group continues to develop property specific Stable manager of hotel properties.
Growth of the Groups asset management plans which focus on the portfolio of owned assets is dependent on the capital requirements of each property in terms availability of suitable development sites, acquisitions of regular maintenance and product enhancement.
A limit on such opportunities The Group has rigorous management systems may have a negative impact on future operational to monitor major capital projects to ensure profitability.
Property ownership requires ongoing they are properly managed and delivered on investment in the form of preventative maintenance, time and within budgeted parameters.
refurbishment, significant capital expenditure and product development.
There is also the possible loss of capital due to uninsured events and reductions inasset values as a result of demographic changes in the markets in which the properties are located.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 40 Strategic report Our risks continued Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Status Insurance Not all risks are insured, either because the cover The Groups insurance requirements are regularly Stable is not available in the market or the cover is not reviewed to ensure that the cover obtained is available on commercially viable terms.
The Group appropriate to its risk profile and, relative to is exposed to the risk of cover not being continually the cost of cover available in the market place.
Availability may be influenced by factors Insurance covers are arranged with a variety outside the Groups control, which could reduce of insurers to ensure that arrangements are the markets underwriting capacity, breadth of not overly concentrated on a limited number of policy coverage or simply make the cost of cover carriers.
Choice of insurance carriers is dependent too expensive.
The Group could be exposed to on satisfaction of a number of relevant factors uninsured third-party claims, loss of revenue or including a review of the insurers security ratings.
reduction of fixed asset values which may, in turn, have an adverse effect on Group profitability, cash flows and ability to satisfy banking covenants.
Information In order to maintain its competitiveness Investments in the ever changing field of Stable Technology within the market place the Group will need technology have the inherent risk of redundancy systems and to ensure its IT systems deliver the necessary and impairment.
As such, the Group invests infrastructure trading platforms and provide management in systems that are tried and tested so that as with accurate and timely information.
much operational resilience as possible, cost considerations permitting, can be obtained.
Further investment is made to remove legacy technology to ensure robust, secure and compliant technology systems and services are delivered.
Crisis management and disaster recovery plans are in place for critical systems.
Management reviews IT requirements and risks to prioritise implementation of changes and improvements.
Data privacy The Group has an obligation to keep secure personal The Group regularly reviews and refreshes Increasing & protection information about its customers, employees and its policies, procedures and operating and fraud other stakeholders.
Non-compliance with data controls to ensure continued compliance privacy and protection regulations, which differ by with global data privacy and protection jurisdiction and are an area of increasing focus by regulations.
Training is updated and provided regulators, could result in fines and or other damages, to all relevant staff on an ongoing basis.
including reputational damage, being incurred, particularly in the event a data breach should occur.
Additionally, a significant proportion of the Groups operating revenue is received from customers through credit card transactions and the payment card industry requires the Group to comply with payment card industry data security standards PCI-DSS as a condition of credit card merchant agreements.
Failure to comply with these regulatory and contractual requirements and standards could result in penalties and withdrawal of credit card payment facilities.
By order of the Board Wong Hong Ren Group Chief Executive Officer 9 February 2015 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 41 Governance 42 Board of Directors 44 Directors Report 47 Corporate Governance Report 51 Audit & Risk Committee Report 55 Remuneration Committee Report 69 Nominations Committee Report 70 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 71 Independent Auditors Report Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014
