Risk and uncertainties This section highlights the principal The Risk Committee met on three occasions in The processes that are used to identify and risks and uncertainties that affect FY 2014 and continues to meet on a quarterly manage risks are described in the internal the Company, together with the key basis to review the key risks facing the business.
control and risk management statement mitigating activities in place to manage Key risks identified are reviewed and assessed on pages 46 and 47. those risks.
This does not represent a by the Risk Committee in terms of their comprehensive list of all of the risks that likelihood and impact, within the Groups the Company faces, but focuses on those Key Risk Heat Map, in conjunction with that are currently considered to be most associated risk mitigation plans.
relevant at the current time.
Our key risks and how we manage them Identify risk Report risk Assess assessments to likelihood Risk Committee and impact and Audit Committee Risk management Agree risk Review net risk mitigation plans post mitigation of gross risk Risk and control processes Three lines of defence Senior management Audit Committee 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence  Executive Committee  Financial authority limits  Group Assurance  Leadership group management  Risk management processes  External audit  Internal controls and processes  Risk Committee  Retail control  Internal policies and procedures  Health and safety  Training  Technology  Legal 18 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report 233 Governance 3466 Financialstatements 67111  112 Risk Risk description Mitigating activities Market risks: Social and demographic changes In FY 2013, the Company conducted Consumer taste and are driving the long-term growth a major piece of consumer research, brand management in eating-out while at the same time interviewing 8,000 consumers about leading to a steady decline in the 14,000 leisure occasions.
This research sales of on-trade drinks without food.
examined macroeconomic trends, These changes, together with other consumer dynamics, competitor and developments in consumer taste may internal brand positioning and the reduce the appeal of Mitchells & Butlers Companys strengths and weaknesses.
brands to its guests, especially if the The business continues to implement the Company fails to anticipate and identify outputs from this project to refine further these changes and respond to them its brand positioning and ensure the adequately and promptly.
portfolios continued relevance for guests.
This is discussed in detail in the Business review on pages 24 and 25.
The Company uses an online guest satisfaction survey to collect guest feedback.
This feedback together with the results of research studies is monitored and evaluated by a dedicated guest insight team to ensure that the relevance to guests of the Companys brands is maintained.
Net promoter score, as defined on page 22, is the key measure of success in this area, and this has improved from 59% in FY 2013 to 63% in FY 2014.
Pricing and market changes External influences, such as changes Mitchells & Butlers is focused on the in the general economic climate or long-term potential of the eating-out competitor activity, could have a market.
The Company owns sites across detrimental effect on consumers the UK with a wide spectrum of offers spending patterns and therefore the targeted at different consumer groups Companys revenue, profitability and and leisure occasions.
This range allows consequently the value of its assets.
the Company to respond to changes in consumer expenditure either by flexing our offerings or by substituting a different brand at a particular location.
This activity is supported by dedicated Sales and Margin Managers and Asset Planning teams which analyse and evaluate a range of information including that in respect of competitors.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 Risk and uncertainties continued Risk Risk description Mitigating activities Operational risks: Increases in the price of goods for resale Mitchells & Butlers leverages its scale Cost of goods price increases and utilities costs as a result of increases to drive competitive cost advantage and including energy price in global demand and uncertainty of collaborates with suppliers to increase increases supply in producing nations can have efficiencies in the supply chain.
The a significant impact on the cost base, fragmented nature of the food supply consequently impacting margins.
industry on the world commodity markets gives the Company the opportunity to source products from a number of alternative suppliers in order to drive down cost.
The Company continually evolves the composition of menus and retail prices in order to optimise value to the guest as well as profits for the Company.
The energy procurement strategy seeks to reduce the risk of cost increases and uncertainty over energy prices by a rolling programme of short and medium-term purchases against forecast requirements.
A dedicated energy management team is responsible for optimising energy usage across the organisation by promoting energy efficient working practices via training and educational programmes and by the installation of energy efficient equipment.
People planning and Mitchells & Butlers has a strong guest The Company makes significant development focus, and as such it is important that investment in training to ensure that its it is able to attract, retain, develop and people have the right skills to perform motivate the best people with the right their jobs successfully.
Furthermore, an capabilities throughout the organisation.
employee survey is conducted annually to establish employee satisfaction and engagement and this is compared with other companies, as well as previous surveys.
Where appropriate, changes in working practices are made in response to the findings of these surveys.
Remuneration packages are benchmarked to ensure that they remain competitive and a talent review process is used to provide structured succession planning.
Staff turnover is the key measure of success in this area and in FY 2014 the Company has maintained the low rate of 78%, as seen in FY 2013. Business continuity and Mitchells & Butlers relies on its food and The Company has in place crisis crisis management drink supply chain and the key IT systems and continuity plans that are tested underlying the business to serve its guests and refreshed regularly.
Supply chain interruption, IT system failure or crises In September 2014, the Companys third such as terrorist activity or the threat of party back-up facility, for Retail Support disease pandemic might restrict sales Centre employees, was successfully tested or reduce operational effectiveness.
to ensure critical business systems are able to function in the event of a disaster.
20 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report 233 Governance 3466 Financialstatements 67111  112 Risk Risk description Mitigating activities Finance risks: There are risks that borrowing covenants The Company maintains headroom Borrowing covenants are breached because of circumstances against these risks.
The finance team such as: conducts daily cash forecasting with periodic reviews at the Treasury i.
A change in the economic climate Committee, the roles of which include leading to reduced cash inflows: or ensuring that the Board Treasury Policy ii.
A material change in the valuation is adhered to, monitoring its operation of the property portfolio.
and agreeing appropriate strategies for recommendation to the Board.
In addition, regular forecasting and testing of covenant compliance is performed and frequent communication is maintained with the Securitisation Trustee.
Pension fund deficit The material value of the pension fund The Company has made significant deficit remains a risk.
additional contributions to reduce the funding deficit.
In May 2014, the Company reached agreement on the triennial valuation of the Group pension schemes as at 31 March 2013, at an increased funding shortfall of 572m March 2010 valuation 400m.
Regulatory risks: A major health and safety failure could Mitchells & Butlers maintains a robust Failure to operate safely lead to illness, injury or loss of life or programme of health and safety checks and legally significant damage to the Companys both within its restaurants and pubs or a brands reputation.
and throughout the supply chain.
The dedicated Safety Assurance team uses a number of technical partners including food technologists, microbiologists and allergen specialists to ensure that our food procedures are safe.
Regular independent audits of trading sites are performed to ensure that procedures are followed and that appropriate standards are maintained.
Food suppliers are required to meet the British Retail Consortium Global Standard for Food Safety and are subject to regular safety and quality audits.
Comprehensive health and safety training programmes are in place.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21
