Mitie Group plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties The section below describes identified principal risks to the achievement of our strategic business objectives.
These risks are those believed by the Board to be most significant to impact our strategy, our financial and operational performance and ultimately our reputation.
There may be other risks which are currently unknown to the group or which may become material in the future.
We continue to group risk in four categories: strategic, financial, operational and regulatory.
Strategic risks Risk Mitigation The group continues to see large scale complex integrated Large and complex integrated facilities management Contract facilities management contracts as materially important to contracts are subject to executive management oversight mobilisation, the achievement of our strategic objectives.
Our ability to and approval.
Teams of experienced bid, mobilisation and management successfully mobilise, operate and manage such contracts operational delivery specialists support these contracts and performance is critical for the maintenance of our financial position.
As our to mitigate the risk of failure at any stage.
Regular service offering becomes increasingly complex as a business dialogue occurs with the clients executive management differentiator, we become increasingly reliant on the delivery to ensure service delivery remains in line with the clients of sophisticated technological solutions for our clients.
solutions necessarily carry increased risk around design, Our Board governs and reviews the investment in and delivery and successful implementation when compared to support for the development and deployment of technical our more traditional business activities.
Our ability to retain solutions and these programmes have governance and win new contracts of this type is therefore important for and review structures in place to monitor their ongoing the future success of our business.
Mities principal macro-economic exposure is to the UK We remain highly focused on delivering sustainable, Company market, with only very limited exposure to the wider global profitable growth and are completing our exit strategy performance economy.
With the UK economy showing some signs of from more cyclical, margin-diluting markets.
Our strategy and resourcing recovery, an expected potential upturn in the pipeline of continues to be reviewed and evolve to ensure high requirements opportunities for Mitie is anticipated.
The need for our margin growth areas are targeted, underpinned by the business model to adapt and grow with any ongoing economic right supporting business infrastructure.
Our focus on the impacted by upturn is therefore paramount.
With private sector clients development of our long-term contract portfolio reduces change to likely to be varied in terms of the volume, value and range the groups financial exposure to rapid changes in the the market of required services, a failure to recognise and respond to economic environment.
The acquisition strategy remains and economic these demands may impact the groups ability to win or retain targeted on securing opportunities both to help diversify conditions significant business opportunities.
Our diverse business our business offering and to enhance our current services.
portfolio provides resilience during times of economic changes Entry into new business areas is controlled and requires and varying demands on our resources, depending on the way Board approval.
in which the economic cycle affects our client base.
The strength of our reputation remains a critical component We recognise that a strong corporate governance Protecting in our ability to achieve our strategic objectives and growth framework supported by demonstrable values and our reputation targets.
A detrimental impact to our reputation may lead to behaviours provides the basis for effective reputational a loss in market confidence in our ability to retain or undertake management.
Our governance framework provides new client work and may affect our financial performance and dedicated policies, procedures, training programmes and growth prospects.
We understand clearly that any incident audit to address specific issues which, if realised, may involving major harm to one of our people or our clients give rise to reputational impact.
Specific elements of this partners, corrupt practices involving fraud or bribery, weak framework were revised, rationalised and strengthened financial control processes or failure to meet regulatory during the year.
As our business continues to grow and requirements may significantly impact our reputation.
Such develop into new sectors we will remain strongly focused an impact could result in contract losses, failure to win new on protecting the strength of our reputation through business, financial penalties and difficulties in the future effective governance, leadership and the development recruitment of key staff.
of our ethical business framework.
Financial risk Risk Mitigation Our financial strength makes us an attractive partner to We continue to monitor our financial performance very Financial strength our clients and stakeholders, including our funding partners.
closely via our mature financial governance arrangements, and access to Should our financial performance deteriorate, our ability to with daily monitoring of bank balances, weekly cash appropriately access funding on competitive terms could be impacted, flow forecasting and regular financial performance and scaled and diverse causing a restriction in our ability to grow both organically and balance sheet reviews.
We continue to maintain our strong through acquisition, and an increase in the cost of borrowing banking, debt finance and equity relationships, with a sources of funding which could affect our financial performance.
diverse portfolio of committed long-term funding.
Our most significant area of expenditure is staff costs, which have to be paid regularly and at specific times.
Our ability to do this is reliant upon the continued availability of funding, our ability to manage our cash flow, access to varied sources of funds and working capital.
It is critical to the success and continuity of our business.
Our business activities are dependent on a number of We have strategically developed a diverse and robust Reliance on significant counterparties such as insurers, banks, clients and counterparty base, limiting the dependency of any one material suppliers.
Effective and ongoing relationships with our material counterparty and hence the impact of any potential failure.
counterparties counterparties will underpin the groups ability to meet its A formal review of material counterparty risk is undertaken strategic objectives.
The failure of a key subcontractor, by the Board and at divisional and business level.
supplier, financing or other partner could have a detrimental impact on the operational and financial effectiveness of our business and our ability to trade.
Strategic Report Governance Financial 33 Operational risk Risk Mitigation Many of our diverse operations, if not effectively managed, The Board maintains its commitment to the highest Significant health, have the potential to result in significant harm to our standards of quality, health, safety and environmental safety or employees, our business partners, members of the public, QHSE performance, through effective governance, environmental or to damage the environment.
As a major employer our oversight and management standards, with QHSE incident focus on and commitment to safeguarding our people and performance continuing to be the first item on every protecting the environment remains unwavering.
Failure to do Board agenda.
Our well-established QHSE management so could result in a significant incident, affecting an employee, systems are certified to the ISO 9001, 14001 and their family, friends and colleagues, or lead to regulatory OHSAS 18001 standards and we continue to focus action, financial impact or damage to our reputation.
on the importance of values and behaviours through our employee engagement programme Work Safe Home Safe!
To support our management system and engagement programme we focus on developing training programmes to ensure every employee, at every level of the business, has the core competencies required to do their work safely.
Our programmes are supported by a network of dedicated and experienced QHSE professionals, backed up with the use of external parties to provide specialist technical expertise where required.
Our operational efficiency and future business performance is Our core policies provide the basis of our governance System, process increasingly reliant on the use of sophisticated, interdependent framework and these remain under continual review or control failure business systems, which provide the basis for contract to ensure they remain optimised in line with effective may impact management and business support activities.
These systems, governance practices as the business continues to grow our operational in addition to our governance framework of policies and and diversify.
Our internal control effectiveness continues performance procedures, will remain critical for the control and success to be reviewed formally, supported by a programme of of the business as they help to drive innovative solutions to internal audits and self-certification on the operation of key customer requirements, improve operational efficiency via the controls and procedures.
use of targeted management information and underpin the Business critical systems are tested to ensure effective effectiveness of our business support functions.
recovery following a potential disaster scenario and we have in place an assurance programme to test the The business critical nature of these systems means that operational failure may result in a significant impact on adequacy of our mitigation activity.
Oversight of IT related governance is provided by the IT steering group who operational delivery, contract management and client expectations.
Equally the role of systems in ensuring the continue to monitor the effectiveness of the information security management system which is aligned with effectiveness of the business support control and reporting environment may mean that system failure could lead to a recognised international standards.
breakdown in the controls around high volume transactions and compliance areas such as vetting and employment legislation.
Such a breakdown could result in financial or other misstatements occurring or non-compliance fines.
We acknowledge the importance of attracting and retaining Our career development and talent management Retention and the best skilled people at all levels of the business to achieve programmes are a key focus for our management teams, attraction of our strategic objectives and helping to deliver our long-term ensuring a pipeline of opportunities exist for staff at every skilled people growth aspirations.
This is particularly the case where we level of the business.
Additionally, succession plans exist require specialist technical expertise or management and for key management to ensure a talent pool is identified, where the market may be highly competitive.
We also developed and ready for succession if needed.
Our focus recognise the importance of diversity in ensuring a broad on training and competency at all levels of the business range of views are considered when developing strategy and continues to ensure that we develop our people to enable supporting programmes.
Challenges in attracting new talent, them to manage the changing profile of our business.
or developing and retaining our existing employees could impact our ability to achieve our strategic growth objectives.
As we continue to grow and diversify into new areas, this risk will continue to be a focus for the Board.
Regulatory risk Risk Mitigation We continue to provide a strong focus on ensuring, as a Our legal compliance framework, as a key element Non-compliance minimum requirement, legal compliance in all of our business of our management system, has been established to with the areas, in particular where we enter into new business ensure proactive identification of legal and regulatory developing areas.
As a major employer, further development of the requirements in all our business areas.
Our operational regulatory regulatory framework in areas where we work may have a teams remain primarily responsible for ensuring legal material financial impact on the business.
Failure to achieve compliance, supported by experienced teams of framework appropriate legal or regulatory compliance could lead to functional experts and backed up by our assurance enforcement action, fines, adverse publicity and therefore teams.
Where required, we obtain specialist technical potential damage to our reputation.
advice to support our in-house teams.
We continue to monitor the developing regulatory framework to allow for effective planning on potential requirements and costs of compliance.
