Strategic report 30 Our principal risks Our risk management framework is designed to address all the significant strategic, sustainability, financial, operational and compliance-related risks that could undermine our ability to achieve our business objectives into the future.
Our risk management framework Boards Overall responsibility for Group strategy and managing risk Determine risk appetite in line with Group strategy and approve risk management framework Audit committee Sustainable Reviews risk management policy, plan and risk tolerance development committee levels and monitors the effectiveness of the risk Monitors and reviews material safety, health and management process environment risks Monitors and reviews all risks except those allocated to the sustainable development committee Executive committee Formulates risk management policies within the approved risk management framework to ensure risks are managed within Internal audit accepted tolerance levels Assesses and monitors risks on an ongoing basis Provides assurance to the Boards and committees on the effectiveness of the risk management process Evaluates internal control Business units Group functions environment to ensure that controls are operating efficiently Responsible for implementation of risk Responsible for managing areas of risk and effectively across all management policies and procedures that benefit from central coordination business units treasury, tax, safety and health, and sustainable development Work closely with business units to manage and monitor these risk areas Risk aware culture embedded across the organisation Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Strategic report 31 The executive committee, audit committee and Boards conduct an annual formal The Boards are satisfied systematic review of the Groups most significant risks and uncertainties, including how that the Group has effective these risks are monitored and managed.
Risk management is embedded in all decision systems and controls in place making processes, with ongoing review of the Groups risks throughout the year as well to manage its key risks within as risk assessments being conducted as part of all investment decisions.
A number of the the risk tolerance levels key risks to which we are exposed are a function of our strategy and thus are long-term in established by the Boards.
nature and do not tend to change significantly from year to year.
Risk management is by nature a dynamic and ongoing process.
Our risk management framework is designed to address all the significant strategic, sustainability, financial, operational and compliance-related risks that could undermine our ability to achieve our business objectives into the future.
It is flexible, to ensure that it remains relevant at all levels of the business: and dynamic to ensure we can be responsive to changing business conditions.
This is particularly important given the diversity of the Groups locations, markets and production processes.
Over the course of the past year, the audit committee has reviewed each of the principal risks set out below.
In evaluating the Groups risk management and internal control processes, the committee has considered both internal and external audit reports and received confirmation from the finance heads of the business units that financial control frameworks have operated satisfactorily.
The Boards are satisfied that the Group has effective systems and controls in place to manage its key risks within the risk tolerance levels established by the Boards.
Energy and related input costs 8.
Financial risks 7 Read about how we are responding to these risks on Likelihood the next page Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Impact Strategic report 32 32 Our principal risks continued Response In 2014 Risk We monitor industry developments in terms of changes in capacity Major capacity expansions 1.
Industry capacity as well as trends and developments in our own product markets.
undertaken by the Group included completion of our new 155,000 Plant utilisation levels are the main Our strategic focus on low-cost production and innovation tonne per annum bleached kraft driver of profitability in paper mills.
activities to produce higher value added products, combined with paper machine in the Czech New capacity additions are usually in our focus on growing markets, with consistent investment in our Republic and 100,000 tonne per large increments which, through their operating capacity ensures that we remain competitive.
annum pulp dryer in Russia.
impact on the supply demand balance, Link to key value drivers influence market prices.
Unless market growth exceeds capacity additions, excess capacity may lead to lower Read more about our capacity selling prices.
expansions in the chief executives review on page 17 Our ability to meet changes in consumer demand depends on We invested 18 million on 2.
Product substitution our capacity to correctly anticipate such changes and develop research into new products new products on a sustainable, competitive and cost-effective and applications.
Our focus for growth is on products enjoying positive changes in consumer preferences affect substitution dynamics and growing regional markets.
We work the demand for packaging products.
with our customers in developing new markets and new products.
Factors such as the weight of packaging See page 17 to find out about Our broad range of converting products provides some protection materials, increased use of recycled some of the new products we from the effects of substitution between paper and plastic based materials, electronic substitution of paper launched this year packaging products.
products, increasing demand for certified and labelled goods and specific material Link to key value drivers qualities all impact on the demand for the products Mondi produces.
Our strategic focus is on higher growth markets and products We invested 562 million in 3.
Selling price variability where we enjoy a competitive advantage through innovation, our operations to ensure they proximity or a production cost advantage.
Our selling prices are determined by changes in capacity and by demand We continue to invest in our low-cost, high-quality production for our products, which are, in turn, assets to ensure we maintain our competitive cost position.
influenced by macroeconomic Our high levels of vertical integration reduce our exposure to conditions, consumer spending price volatility of our key input costs.
Our financial policies and preferences and inventory levels structures are designed taking the inherent price volatility of the maintained by our customers.
markets in which we operate into consideration.
Changes in prices differ between Link to key value drivers products and geographic regions and the timing and magnitude of such changes have varied significantly over time.
We actively monitor all countries and environments in which we We have around 11% of our 4.
Country risk operate and have established limits on exposure to any particular capital employed in Russia and a geographic environment.
limited presence in the Ukraine.
We have production operations across The US, European Union and more than 30 countries, a number of We engage in regular formal and informal interaction with a number of other countries which are in jurisdictions where the the authorities to ensure we remain abreast of any new imposed economic sanctions and political, economic and legal systems are development.
New investments are subject to rigorous strategic other measures on persons and less predictable than in countries with and commercial evaluation.
corporate entities in Russia and more developed institutional structures.
Our geographic diversity and decentralised management the Ukraine.
Possible additional Political or economic upheaval, inflation, structure, utilising local resources in countries in which we sanctions and or other measures changes in laws, nationalisation or operate, reduces our exposure to any specific jurisdiction.
on Russia could have a material expropriation of assets may have a Link to key value drivers adverse effect on our business.
material effect on our operations in To date, the measures imposed those countries.
have had no material impact on our operations.
We have a zero harm policy.
We continually monitor incidents and We committed a further 5.
Employee and close calls and actively transfer learnings across our operations.
17 million across all our material We apply an externally accredited safety management system operations, aimed at engineering contractor safety and conduct regular audits of our operations to ensure our out the most significant risks We operate large facilities, often in remote facilities remain fit-for-purpose.
faced by our employees and locations.
Accidents incidents cause contractors in our operations.
Link to key value drivers injury to our employees or contractors, property damage, lost production time and or harm to our reputation.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Strategic report Key value drivers: 33 We focus on developing in markets that We invest in our exceptional people and our offer us growth opportunities high-quality, low-cost operations We are passionate about performance, We work with our customers and help them reliability and sustainability to succeed by finding innovative solutions Response In 2014 Risk We are committed to acquiring fibre from sustainable, responsible We maintained 100% FSC 6.
Fibre supply sources and avoiding the use of any controversial or illegal supply.
certification of our forests in Russia and South Africa.
Wood, pulp and paper for recycling The sustainable management of our forestry operations is key in comprise approximately a third of our managing our overall environmental impact, helping to protect input costs.
We have access to our own ecosystems and develop resilient landscapes.
sources of wood in Russia and South We have built strong forestry management resources in Russia Africa and purchase wood, pulp and paper and South Africa to actively monitor and manage our wood for recycling to meet our needs in the resources in those countries.
Wood prices We have multiple suppliers for each of our mills and actively and availability may be adversely affected pursue longer term agreements with strategic suppliers of wood, by reduced quantities of available wood pulp and paper for recycling.
We are involved in multi-stakeholder supply that meet our standards for chainprocesses to address challenges in meeting the global demand of-custody certified or controlled wood, for sustainable, responsible fibre.
and initiatives to promote the use of wood as a renewable energy source.
Link to key value drivers We monitor our electricity usage, emission levels and use of We completed the 128 million 7.
Energy and related renewable energy.
Most of our larger operations have high levels replacement of the recovery of electricity self-sufficiency.
boiler at our operations in input costs Slovakia thus reducing the We focus on improving the efficiency of our operations and Energy and related input costs comprise Ruomberok mills environmental have invested in our operations to improve our energy profile approximately a third of our variable footprint and improving its overall and increase electricity self-sufficiency, while reducing ongoing costs.
Mondi is a significant consumer of cost position.
operating costs and emission levels.
electricity and both purchases electricity To the extent that we generate electricity surplus to our own from external suppliers and generates requirements, we may sell such surplus externally.
To the extent that we dont generate revenue from the sale of green energy credits in certain generate electricity from biomass and of our operations, the prices of which are determined in the open by-products of our production processes, market.
we are dependent on external suppliers for raw materials such as gas, oil and coal.
Link to key value drivers We ensure that we are complying with all applicable environmental, 8.
Environmental impact health and safety requirements where we operate.
Our online Sustainable We operate in a high-impact sector and Our own policies and procedures, at or above local policy development report provides a need to manage the associated risks and requirements, are embedded in all our operations.
comprehensive overview of our responsibilities.
Our operations are water, We focus on a clean production philosophy to address the impact policies and activities: carbon and energy intensive: consume from emissions, discharge and waste.
We focus on increasing www.
com sd14 materials such as fibre, polymers, metals the energy efficiency of our operations and using biomassand chemicals: and generate emissions to based fuels, reducing our use of fossil-based energy sources.
We are the custodian We emphasise the responsible management of forests and of more than two million hectares of associated ecosystems, protecting high conservation value areas.
See pages 36 and 37 for a brief forested land.
We are subject to a wide summary of our performance Link to key value drivers range of international, national and local against our commitments environmental laws and regulations as well as the requirements of our customers.
We operate a comprehensive training and compliance 129 Speakout messages were 9.
Reputational risk programme, supported by self-certification and reporting.
recorded and followed up on.
Non-compliance with the legal and We also operate a confidential reporting hotline, Speakout, governance requirements in any of the enabling employees, customers, suppliers, managers and other jurisdictions in which we operate could stakeholders to raise concerns about conduct that may be expose us to significant risk if not actively contrary to our values.
These include laws relating to Link to key value drivers the environment, exports, price controls, taxation and labour.
Our approach to financial risk management is described in our 10.
See notes 29 and 30 of the Our trading and financing activities Link to key value drivers financial statements on pages 162 expose the Group to financial risks that, if to 169 for further details left unmanaged, could adversely impact our financial position.
These risks relate to the currencies in which we conduct our activities, interest rate and liquidity risks and exposure to customer credit risk.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
