Principal Risks How we mitigate risk Risk Management Risk Appetite During 2014, the Group has made In common with all businesses, the Group Risk appetite is an expression of the enhancements to the risk management faces risks, the effective management of amount and type of risk the Group is framework including embedding risk which is necessary to enable it to achieve willing to accept in order to achieve its reporting and enhancing management its strategic objectives and secure the strategic objectives.
The Groups risk information to facilitate customer business for the long term.
Risk appetite influences the business culture focused outcomes.
management is critical to the effective and operating decisions and is reflected in running of the business and provides a the risk management framework.
Risk greater prospect of achieving the strategic exposures outside of appetite are objectives, whilst also giving a competitive escalated and reported to the Risk advantage.
Risk management is Committee alongside action plans to considered as part of the Groups decision reduce the risk on a timely basis.
The tables below summarise, in the opinion of the Board, the principal risks to the Group and how the Group seeks to mitigate them in the day-to-day running of the business.
Strategic priority: Best site Be the easiest way for customers to find providers and products Risk area Description Risk type Mitigating activities Competition Loss of market share or reduction in Strategic Risk The Group continues to focus on margins as a result of channels and building market leading propositions platforms not delivering expected for its customers including investment benefits to customers and the Group.
in new platforms across a range of channels which deliver additional features and functionality to customers.
Evolution of existing platforms to improve customer experience and make comparing products easier.
Changing Reduction in customers if the Group fails Strategic Risk Regular engagement with customers consumer to adapt to changing customer behaviours to understand changes in the way in demand in using new technologies such as which they utilise the Groups services.
increasing use of mobile devices to access The Group has invested significantly the internet or social media.
in technology to allow customers to access the Groups websites across multiple devices.
Strategic priority: Earn customer loyalty Be a destination brand for users and customers Risk area Description Risk type Mitigating activities Brand Loss of confidence by customers in the Strategic Risk Continued investment in advertising strength brands operated by the Group resulting across a range of media to maintain in reduced engagement and loyalty from the Group brands in customers minds.
Product offering Reduction in customer loyalty with Operational The Group seeks to build strong existing customers and an inability to Conduct Risk relationships with providers to develop attract new customers if the business varied product offerings including fails to maintain a competitive price exclusive products and offers and and product offering as a leading price competitive pricing.
The Group undertakes rigorous checking of its websites through audit and review to maintain the accuracy of information displayed.
Customer Negative impact on reputation and loss Operational Investment in flexible systems to put trust of customer trust through impact of an Conduct Risk customers in control of how personal operational event such as loss or misuse data is held and used.
Rigorous controls and regular testing of the Groups systems and investment in infrastructure will ensure the integrity and robustness of the Groups systems.
24 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Risk Management Processes The Risk & Compliance function provides Each risk is owned by a member of the The Group adopts a formal risk challenge to the business in their Executive Management Team who review identification and management process assessment and management of risks with the assessment and are responsible for designed to ensure that risks are properly particular focus on the actions being taken delivery of mitigating actions.
Possible identified, prioritised, evaluated and to reduce the risk.
Internal Audit and future risks are also considered and mitigated to the extent that is possible.
Compliance monitoring findings are an preventative measures taken as additional consideration in the assessment appropriate.
Risks are reviewed across the Group on a of risks.
regular basis and formally reported to the Risk Committee.
Identify Quantify Identify Quantify Identify Monitor the risks the gross existing the net if further and risk risk risk controls control mitigation needed Strategic priority: Preferred partner Be the best way for providers to acquire customers Risk area Description Risk type Mitigating activities Relevance Providers may increase their focus Strategic Risk The Group seeks to innovate in the to partners on customer retention rather than solutions and benefits it can offer acquisition or seek alternative sources to providers and maximise the of customer acquisition outside of price opportunities for providers to acquire comparison websites.
customers in a cost effective manner.
Core values One team always making things better for customers, colleagues and providers Risk area Description Risk type Mitigating activities Economic Weaknesses in the economic environment Strategic Risk Commercial arrangements exist with uncertainty may cause providers to reduce product a wide range of providers offering range or tighten acceptance criteria for genuine choice to customers.
customers seeking to obtain credit.
This Building strong relationships with may reduce competition for business, providers to ensure that the Group is customer choice, Group revenue and the able to provide solutions to the needs customer proposition of price comparison of providers.
Focus on maintaining control of cost base in order that the business is an efficient customer acquisition route for providers.
Regulation Changes to existing regulation or Strategic Risk The Group seeks to have a strong the introduction of new regulatory relationship with regulators and shares requirements requires changes to the the vision of regulators generally to core business model in order to comply.
make products more accessible and understandable to customers.
The Group Risk & Compliance function works across the business to ensure it remains compliant with existing regulation and is able to highlight where changes may impact business processes.
