18 StrAteGiC rePOrt rISK MAnAgeMent the group has an established risk management group where the impact would materialise, risks identified the need for further proactive methodology in place which seeks to identify, with the effectiveness of the controls and management of the technology tail, ie those quantify, manage and mitigate both existing and mitigating actions being monitored and older technologies which are now becoming emerging risks, together with a comprehensive assessed through a group-wide review process obsolete.
the Board Audit Committee annual internal control framework and appropriate which considers the controls, monitoring review of key risks will continue into 2015 and monitoring and assurance processes, details of and assurance framework around these risks.
beyond with a focus on developing a means which are set out in the Corporate governance Senior members of the management team are of further leveraging the significant volume report on pages 49 to 57. the Board considers responsible for the strategic management of the of information gathered as part of the risk that this is fundamental to achieving the group respective key risks, including related policy, Management process.
Also in 2015, the aim of creating long-term sustainable guidelines and process.
groups risk management methodology and shareholder value.
related processes will be reviewed to ensure During 2014, the Board Audit Committee that they align with the requirements under risks are identified top down by the Board reviewed all risks with an inherent potential the revised uK Corporate governance Code.
and site up though the groups businesses eBItA impact of above 5 million within a and are quantified by assessing their inherent 12-month period and the controls, monitoring the following risks feature in the groups key impact and mitigated probability to ensure and assurance processes that are in place to risk register and are those that the Board feels that the true potential impact of any risk and mitigate those risks.
As a result of this review, could have the most serious effect on achieving its likelihood of materialising are appreciated a number of actions were identified to the groups strategy of building a sustainable throughout the group.
the day-to-day improve controls and the mitigation of risk.
business for the long term and delivering management of risk sits within the groups For example, the review of both the top strong returns to the groups stakeholders.
internal control framework at the level of the down and site up technology obsolescence rISK MItIgAtIon Strategy and strategic planning risks Technology obsolescence one of the groups strategic priorities is that it aims to the group has a Chief technical officer and a dedicated be innovative, differentiated and high value-added.
technology team which monitors technology and business this is fundamental to achieving the goal of continuing to be developments.
Specifically, the team has developed technology one of the worlds very best advanced materials companies.
roadmaps for its major technology families to ensure it is at the leading edge of technology development, but also to understand unforeseen unmitigated technology obsolescence, the loss emerging and competing technologies.
of control of proprietary technology or the loss of intellectual property know-how would impact the groups business and the technology team proactively manages the groups technology its ability to deliver on its strategic goals.
pipeline and r&D investment in new improving technologies and is also focusing on productive management of the technology tail.
this technology pipeline is regularly reviewed by the group executive and the Board.
Where group products are designed for a specific customer, they are developed in tandem with the customer to maintain leading-edge differentiated solutions.
the group seeks to secure Ip protection, where appropriate, for its existing and emerging portfolio of products: external advisers manage this protection globally.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 StrAteGiC rePOrt 19 rISK MItIgAtIon Strategy and strategic planning risks continued Recruiting, maintaining and motivating high-quality staff Another of the groups strategic priorities is to find, keep Making Morgan a safe, fulfilling and rewarding group to work for is and develop the right people.
the primary means of engaging the workforce and managing this risk.
the group has an Hr Director and a network of Hr professionals the advanced technological nature of the group requires people within the business who, along with policies and processes, support with highly differentiated skillsets.
Any inability to recruit, retain Morgans managers to mitigate the risks relating to its people.
the and develop the right people would impact the group achieving Hr function covers areas including reward and recognition, health its strategic goals.
and safety, talent management, skills assessment and development, performance management and employee consultation.
A global employee survey was carried out in 2014, the results of which will inform further actions going forward.
In 2012 the group launched a graduate leadership programme which continued to run in 2014. the group also launched in 2014 a global leadership programme in conjunction with Cranfield university to develop Morgans high potential commercial leaders.
Further detail on people is set out on pages 31 to 33.
Operational risks Treasury risks the groups global nature means that it is exposed to uncertainties the groups treasury function, treasury policy and guidelines in the financial markets and the banking sector which heighten the provide strict controls on the selection of banks and cash groups foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks as management.
the treasury team proactively manages and is well as the risk of bank failure impacting the groups cash.
ultimately responsible for all of the groups funding, liquidity, cash management, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and other treasury business.
Further detail on treasury policies is set out in the Financial review on page 45.
Quality of contracts As a global advanced materials business supplying into critical the group has an in-house legal function supplemented by applications, our quality of contracts must match our quality external lawyers.
Ineffective contract risk management could result in significant liabilities for the group and damage customer the group legal policy requires in-house legal review of relationships.
high-value or high-risk contracts to ensure that the contracts contain the appropriate protection for the group.
Ceo approval is required before any part of the business can enter into an unlimited liability contract or one where the liability cap exceeds 5 million.
In 2014, the Ceo approved 10 contracts or tenders with this liability profile, where the underlying risks were considered to be within the groups risk appetite.
Contract risk management training remains part of the responsible Business programme rBp and will continue to mitigate the risk of ineffective contract management.
to the extent that risk has not been managed out of the contractual process, the group has insurance cover approved by the Board, including product liability insurance.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 20 StrAteGiC rePOrt rISK MAnAgeMent continued rISK MItIgAtIon Operational risks continued IT risks and cyber risks In order to meet the groups strategic objectives the viability of its the group has an It policy and guidelines in place as well as group underlying It infrastructure is essential.
If a critical business system and business It teams to manage the groups infrastructure was to fail or the group lost critical data or information through technology roadmap and It risks.
inadequate data management or security of It systems, the business would be impacted.
During the course of 2014 there has been continued focus on testing the global infrastructure, including elements of It auditing in the internal audit process, reviewing data management and developing the groups business continuity plans in relation to It risk.
A number of infrastructure improvements have been made in 2014 to mitigate the likelihood of a successful cyber-attack.
Product quality, safety and liability products used in applications for which they were not intended Many of the groups products are designed to customer or inadequate quality control systems overcommitting on specifications.
over 90% of the groups manufacturing output specifications could result in products not meeting specifications, is accredited to ISo 9001 and the groups quality management which could lead to significant liabilities and reputational damage.
systems and training help ensure that Morgans products meet or exceed customer requirements and national international standards.
Contracts relating to products used in potential high-risk applications are subject to mandatory legal review.
While there were a number of minor product quality issues identified in 2014, these had no material impact.
the group insurance programme includes product liability insurance: this group-level insurance is reviewed annually by the Board.
Single-point exposures the group has a number of potential single point exposure risks, the group executive is responsible for monitoring and managing these include: these single-point exposures.
Single-point supplier a significant interruption of a key internal or external supply could impact business continuity.
local and regional management of these risks involves monitoring Single-point customer the unmitigated loss of a major and reviewing supply chains internal and external, dual multiple customer could have an impact on group profit.
sourcing of materials or strategic stock, fire protection systems, Single-point profit a key site exposed to a strike, a natural creating and testing business continuity plans, and maintaining catastrophe or serious incident, such as fire, could impact product quality and customer relationships.
the group insurance programme includes business interruption cover: this group-level insurance is reviewed annually by the Board.
the Composites and Defence Systems business has seen a reduction in business from the MoD during 2014: in response to this, the business has put increased emphasis on its product customer diversification strategy.
Environment, health and safety EHS risks the group operates a number of manufacturing facilities around the group has a well-developed eHS programme managed the globe.
A failure in the groups eHS procedures could lead to by the eHS Director, with site-based eHS officers to implement environmental damage or to injury or death of employees or third and monitor eHS adherence at site level.
parties, with a consequential impact on operations and raising the risk of regulatory or legal action being taken against the group.
During 2014 the group launched a global behavioural safety Any such action could result in both financial damages and damage programme thinkSAFe.
Further detail of the eHS programme in place to manage these risks is available on pages 25 to 30.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 StrAteGiC rePOrt 21 rISK MItIgAtIon Compliance and ethics risks Changes to or non-compliance with laws and regulation the groups global operations must comply with a range of the group is committed to the highest standards of corporate and national and international laws and regulations including those individual behaviour and this commitment is set out in the groups related to bribery and corruption, human rights, exports and Core Values Statement and ethics policy.
Due to the potential magnitude of corporate fines, compliance risks A failure to comply with any applicable laws regulations could are identified as some of the most significant risks for a number result in civil or criminal liabilities, individual or corporate fines of reasons: and could also result in debarment from government-related Morgans historic breach of anti-trust laws creates a greater contracts and reputational damage.
sensitivity to anti-trust risk and means that the group could be subject to the greater potential liabilities which attach to repeat offenders.
the location of a number of Morgan businesses and customers means they are exposed to greater bribery risk.
Morgan exports from the uS and is therefore subject to the stringent uS export laws.
the groups responsible Business programme and the uS export Director address these areas of risk through policies, training education and monitoring assurance processes.
Full information is available on pages 22 to 24. external risks Changing political, economic and social environment the group operates in a range of markets and geographies the groups broad market geographic spread helps to mitigate around the world and can be affected by political, economic, the effects of political and economic crises.
social or regulatory developments or instability such as Chinese asset bubbles or the geopolitical issues in the Middle east, russia Key risks and events are regularly tracked at a business and group and ukraine.
level, with contingency plans in place to manage changing situations.
Financial and treasury controls limit exposure to foreign currency, interest rate, credit and liquidity risk.
Also, the group maintains a carefully managed debt facility to ensure that its debt ratio is within acceptable market tolerances.
Pension fundings the group participates in defined benefit pension arrangements Active management of the pension scheme assets is the primary which are exposed to fluctuating interest rates, investment values means of mitigation.
this comprises management both internally and inflation.
this coupled with the increased longevity of members within the group but also externally through corporate actuaries could result in funding burdens on the group in the future.
this is not an exhaustive list and there are many factors that could change.
For this reason, the fundamental concept underpinning the groups approach to risk is that beyond the regular review and assessment of controls and mitigation of risk, each business is required to have an up-to-date and tested business continuity plan and to foster a culture of risk-readiness.
the case study below demonstrates the effectiveness of planning but even more so the application of a culture of risk-readiness which includes looking to capitalise on the upside of situations risks.
Case study In July 2014, our tulisa park, Johannesburg business was affected by a national strike of the Metal Workers union.
this month-long strike was anticipated and the businesss priority was to put in place contingency plans to allow manufacturing to continue: importantly, the plan covered employees and any intimidation or violence that they might face if they broke the picket lines.
the decision was taken to relocate critical manufacturing equipment and a number of our tulisa park employees to our Welkom carbon brush site 260km from tulisa park.
Significant planning and preparation went into the short-term relocation and on 2 July, full production was initiated and continued for the duration of the strike.
the employees were provided transport including weekend trips home to their families and accommodation throughout this time as well as a bonus of uS$100 each for their support and efforts.
this plan provided the structure for immediate reaction, and the risk-readiness culture of management and local teams within the affected business resulted in the preservation of sales to the value of 500,000, limited downtime in production, no lost contracts, and enhanced customer relationships through the commitment of the Morgan South African team.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW
