Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties Looking forward, the Group will focus on the following key areas of risk: Risks Assessment Management Potential impact Concession and contract renewal Much of the Groups business Approximately 65% of the Groups total A reputation for high quality services helps issecured through winning revenue is either contract or concession to win and retain contracts.
The Group contracts and concessions, based.
These contracts vary in length hasa good record of retaining contracts particularly in our North American and are typically awarded for between ona historical basis: no national coach High school bus and transit business, 12 months and 20 years.
concession in Spain has been lost before inSpain and in Rail.
and retention rates in school bus are Following the successful retention of typically very high 97% in 2014 and 2013.
2015 continues to see some theEssex Thameside rail franchise, the significant bidding activity, as Group continues to bid for rail contracts National Express was successful at retaining theGroup seeks to expand its in Germany and will selectively bid for the Essex Thameside franchise and in 2015 operations in the Middle East future UK rail franchises.
was awarded the contract to operate the andGermany and continues Nuremberg S-Bahn commuter rail service The concession renewal process in bidding to renew inter-city from 2018.
Further rail contracts are being Spain has changed, with the most coachconcessions inSpain.
significant difference being the removal of the incumbent advantage.
ALSA ALSA is well prepared to submit high quality currently expects about 60% of its bids on its own and other concessions as national coach concessions to be bid in and when they are called to tender.
Economic conditions and austerity Uncertain economic conditions Revenues in the Bus, Coach and Rail The Group seeks to mitigate these risks continue to exist in Europe and businesses in the UK and Spain may be through proactive cost control, revenue North America.
Whilst some of affected by lower passenger demand: management systems, the careful economic the Groups businesses have there is also some positive risk that the modelling of new and existing contracts, High naturally defensive characteristics, Group would benefit from the prospect including sensitivities around expected some of the more discretionary of modal shift towards its forms of growth rates, and through sharing risk with parts of the business may be transport.
In North America for example, contracting parties.
adversely affected by reduced school boards may reduce their economic activity.
transportation budgets, or look to shift provision to contractors like National Express.
In Spain, the division may be affected by the effects of austerity and low GDP growth.
However, they may benefit from the outsourcing of further urban bus operations.
Political and regulatory The Groups businesses are Changes in political and regulatory The risk is reduced by maintaining close subject to numerous laws in the environments can have a significant relationships with key stakeholders and jurisdictions in which they operate, impact on regulated public transport ensuring that the economic advantages of regulating the operation of operators, from adding significant cost our business models are fully understood Medium concessions, safety procedures, to changing the fundamental nature of and considered.
For example: In the longer term, the Group can mitigate employment requirements, Changes in UK Government policy risk by diversifying its operations into other environmental procedures and resulted in material decreases in geographies.
other operating issues subsidies paid in 2012 and 2013 for senior citizen discounts and fuel rebates.
The UK Department for Transport is introducing reforms in the franchising process and has recently restarted the tendering process.
The Spanish Government has agreed the imposition of a fee on new concessions and the removal of a 5% incumbency advantage on new national intercity concessions.
26 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Risks Assessment Management Potential impact Contract management The Group has a significant An inherent risk in contract bidding is The Group seeks to mitigate the risk proportion of its revenue that is won that bid assumptions might prove to be throughcareful economic modelling of new through contract and concession incorrect.
If the Groups significant bid contracts, and by sharing revenue risk with tenders.
assumptions prove to be incorrect, this the awarding body: for example with the Medium could have an adverse effect on results DfTin Rail.
of the operations and the Groups Proper mobilisation is a key part of ensuring financial condition.
that risk of divergence from bid assumptions is minimised.
Contract mobilisation The mobilisation to deliver new While mobilisation is a core expertise Start-up activities are formally managed with services following a contract ofthe Group, operating in new dedicated, skilled local teams supported by award is involved, often requiring geographies and cultures increases the Group expertise.
Close senior management the purchase of new vehicles complexity and challenge of successful oversight ensures any key risks or issues are Medium andin some cases, such as new contract start-up.
The risk is greater rapidly escalated and resolved.
inGermany and the Middle where contracts are won with relatively East, thecreation of a new short lead time to a fixed service start.
The following are ongoing risks within the business: Fuel cost All of the Groups businesses are Fuel costs constitute approximately The Group seeks to mitigate risks of exposed to fuel costs primarily 10% of the Groups costs and, increases in fuel costs by entering into fuel diesel for buses and coaches.
consequently, to the extent that price swaps and forward purchase contracts Fuel prices are subject to increases cannot be passed on to inline with the Groups hedging strategy Medium significant volatility due to customers, increases in fuel costs will discussed on page 31. economic, political and affect profitability.
Insurance and claims The Groups policy is to self-insure There is a risk that a successful claim or Throughout the business, a strong safety a number of potential claims series of successful claims may result in culture prevails, led by the Safety & within its business.
substantially higher charges to profit Environment Committee.
Where claims arise, and cash outflow than expected.
they are managed by experienced claims Medium handlers and professional advice is obtained in order to evaluate and minimise costs to theGroup.
Credit risk As contractual operations, the Payment terms and cash collections Receivables in each business are closely North American and Spanish inNorth America are extremely good.
monitored, based on robust and thorough urban businesses are exposed to InSpain the level of outstanding debt documentation: provisions are then made the risk that customers are either isinline with historical levels.
In 2012 where appropriate on a prudent basis for Low late or unable to pay sums owed and 2013 all long-term outstanding acertain level of non-collection.
amounts were settled through a Federal contractual terms for interest accrual and Government credit facility and through repayment of outstanding balances have 2014 the level of outstanding debt has been agreed with overdue debtors continued to fall.
Currency The Groups exposure to Foreign currency movements impact The Group uses currency debt and currency overseas earnings through its the profit, balance sheet and cash flows swaps to reduce the impact and mitigate the Spanish and North American of the Group.
In addition, management has flexibility operations creates a risk that depreciated against Sterling whereas toadjust Group capital allocation.
Low movement in exchange rates may over the year the US dollar appreciated The Board has tested for the impact of adversely impact translation of against Sterling, having initially abreak-up of the Eurozone or sovereign profit and cash flows together weakened in the first half of the year.
debtdefault on the Groups ability to fund with Group gearing.
The Group holds Euro denominated andoperate, and has identified plans for debt and US dollar finance leases.
