Principal risks and uncertainties Economic environment The operation of a public company There is a link in our business between the demand for our involves a number of risks and products and services and the levels of economic activity in uncertainties across a full range of the countries in which the Group operates.
The high level of operational gearing in our business model means that commercial, operational and financial changes in demand can lead to higher levels of variation areas.
The principal risks and uncertainties in profitability.
that have been identified as being capable The Group operates in Spain, where austerity measures have been implemented.
These measures could impact on future of impacting the Groups performance trading volumes.
The underlying macro-economic conditions over the next financial year are set also increased the risk of customer failure in the recent past, particularly in Spain, which led to the occurrence of increased out below.
However, economic conditions have improved over the course of the year.
The construction industry in Spain and other key markets of the Group were particularly sensitive to the downturn in the economic climate, which led to a decline in the number of vehicles rented in recent years.
The Spanish business continues to generate a large proportion of revenue from customers in the construction industry, but has successfully sought and is continuing to seek to diversify its customer base across a range of market segments.
Should there be a further significant economic downturn the flexible nature of the Groups business model enables vehicles to be placed with other customers.
Alternatively, utilisation can be maintained through a combination of a decrease in vehicle purchases and increase in disposals, which although affecting short term profitability, generates cash and reduces debt levels.
No individual customer contributes more than five per cent of total revenue generated, and ongoing credit analysis is performed on new and existing customers to assess credit risk.
Vehicle holding costs The overall holding cost of a vehicle is affected by the pricing levels of new vehicles and the disposal value of vehicles sold.
The Group purchases substantially all of its fleet from suppliers with no agreement for the repurchase of a vehicle at the end of its hire life cycle.
The Group is therefore exposed to fluctuations in residual values in the used vehicle market.
An increase in the holding cost of vehicles, if not recovered through hire rate increases, would affect profitability, shareholder returns and cash generation.
Risk is managed on new pricing by negotiating fixed pricing terms with manufacturers a year in advance.
Flexibility is maintained to make purchases throughout the year under variable supply terms.
28 Northgate plc Annual report and accounts 2014 c109372.
indb 28 15 07 2014 12:59 Flexibility in our business model allows us to determine the IT systems period over which we hold a vehicle and therefore in the The Groups business involves a high volume of transactions event of a decline in residual values we would attempt to and the need to track assets which are located at mitigate the impact by ageing out our existing fleet.
Competition and hire rates Reliance is placed upon the proper functioning of IT systems for the effective running of operations.
Any interruption to The Group operates in highly competitive markets with the Groups IT systems could have a materially adverse effect competitors often pursuing aggressive pricing actions to on its business.
The market is also fragmented with numerous competitors at a local and national level.
Prior to any material systems changes being implemented the Board approves a project plan.
The project is then As our business is highly operationally geared, any increase led by a member of the executive team, with an ongoing or decrease in hire rates will impact profit and shareholder implementation review being carried out by internal audit returns to a greater extent.
and external consultants where appropriate.
The objective is As the Group is focused on maximising return on capital, all always to minimise the risk that business interruption could hire rates must exceed certain hurdle rates.
occur as a result of the system changes.
Our current pricing strategy is focused on charging the correct Additionally, the Group has an appropriate business price for the service provided and all ancillary services offered, continuity plan in the event of interruption arising from an which will attract customers for whom flexible rental is the IT systems failure.
most appropriate solution but not necessarily the cheapest.
This means that the Group will be better positioned against solely price led competition going forward.
Access to capital The Group requires capital to both replace vehicles that have reached the end of their useful life and for growth in the fleet.
Additionally, due to the level of the Groups indebtedness, a proportion of the Groups cash flow is required to service its debt obligations.
In order to continue to access its credit facilities the Group needs to remain in compliance with its financial covenants throughout the term of its facilities.
Since the year end the Group has refinanced and current bank facilities are due to mature in June 2018.
There is a risk that the Group cannot successfully extend its facilities past this date.
Failure to access sufficient financing or meet financial covenants could potentially adversely affect the prospects of the Group.
Financial covenants are reviewed on a monthly basis in conjunction with cash flow forecasts to ensure ongoing compliance.
If there is a shortfall in cash generated from operations and or available under its credit facilities the Group would reduce its capital requirements.
The Group believes that its existing facilities provide adequate resources for present requirements.
The impact of access to capital on the wider risk of going concern is considered above.
29 Northgate plc Strategic Report Annual report and Principal risks and accounts 2014 uncertainties c109372.
