60 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic risks Description of risk Risk management The Groups planned development The Group has engaged an experienced Development projects, in particular GTU3 and well international project management firm to projects drilling, are subject to customary risks assist with its development of GTU3 and related to delay, non-completion and iscontracting with reputable international costoverruns, which could impact future equipment suppliers employing proven production.
The timing and scope of the drilling programme is also tailored taking into account the states of the GTU3 project and the oil price development.
The Group is exposed to the risk that The Groups hedging policy is that, upon Commodity itsfuture earnings will be adversely entering into longer term non-scalable capital price risk impacted by changes in the market price expenditure commitments, it will hedge up to of crude oil, given that all sales prices a maximum of 70% of its liquids production.
ofcrude oil and condensate are based Currently, the hedge in place is in the order of onmarket prices.
Crude oil prices are 30% of the liquids production.
The instrument influenced by factors such as OPEC the Group has been employing is a zero-cost actions, political events and supply and capped-collar.
Such a contract fixes the floor demand fundamentals.
and ceiling price atacertain predetermined level, with the limitation of the ceiling price at The Group could also be compelled by a certain range.
The Group intends to maintain governmental authorities, purportedly the same hedging policy going forward.
acting based on Kazakh legislation, to sell its gas domestically at prices determined In relation to the gas sales price, based on theterms of its PSA and applicable law the by the Kazakh government, which could besignificantly lower than prices which Group does not believe that such legislation theGroup could otherwise achieve.
isapplicable in its subsoil use of the Chinarevskoye field and has conveyed such aview to the Kazakh government.
Operational risks Description of risk Risk management The Groups activities in the Chinarevskoye In 2013 the Group acquired subsurface use Single revenue oil and gas condensate field are currently rights for three oil and gas fields near the source and the Groups sole source of revenue.
In 2014 the Group developed a work programme for the initial business drilling of one well in each of these fields interruption before the end of 2015.
Due to the depressed oil price environment, it is currently proposed to drill one of these wells in 2015 and scale back drilling of the other two wells.
The Group also has a team of dedicated specialists who assess further possible acquisitions ofoil andgas fields and assets.
The Group is subject to the risk that if The Group has a department of highly skilled Estimation of thereare inaccurate assessments and geologists, who perform periodic assessment oil and gas overstatement of the oil and gas reserves of the oil and gas reserves in accordance the Groups non-current assets and withinternational standards on reserve reserves goodwill may be overstated or impaired.
The results of the assessments are audited by the Groups independent This may also be a consequence of unsuccessful exploration of the new reserve auditor, Ryder Scott.
fieldsand may also result in inappropriate decision-making.
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 61 Compliance risks Description of risk Risk management The Group may have disagreements The Group believes that it is in full compliance Subsoil use withthe Kazakh government regarding with the terms of its subsoil use agreements agreements itssubsoil operations or compliance with and maintains an open dialogue with Kazakh theterms of its subsoil use agreements.
governmental authorities in this regard.
In the event of any non-compliance the Group will pay any applicable penalties and fines.
The legal framework for environmental The Group has strengthened its HSE Environmental protection and operational safety is department over the past 18 months, is compliance notyet fully developed in Kazakhstan regularly developing its internal HSE policies and, given the changing nature of and has performed its first audit ofsupplier environmental regulations, there is a compliance with such policies.
TheGroup riskthat the Group will not be in full also regularly commissions independent compliance with all such regulations environmental audits to monitor its atalltimes.
compliance and best practice in this area.
There is a risk that the Groups employees The Group has adopted an anti-bribery Perceived risk of will unintentionally or deliberately take andcorruption policy, and has included non-compliance aprovision on this subject in the Groups actions prohibited by anti-bribery legislation giventhe perceived Code of Conduct and conducted training for with anti-bribery heightened risk in the jurisdiction in employees in relation to their obligations in legislation whichthe Group operates.
Financial risks Description of risk Risk management The uncertainty of application, including The Group regularly challenges, either with Tax law retroactive application, of tax laws and the Kazakh tax authorities or through the uncertainty the evolution of tax laws in Kazakhstan Kazakh courts, tax assessments that it believes create arisk of additional payments of are inapplicable to it, either pursuant to the taxfrom assessments which the Group terms of its subsoil use agreements or believes are inapplicable to it.
The Group is subject to the risk of Liquidity requirements are monitored on Going concern encountering difficulties in raising funds amonthly basis and management ensures and liquidity risk tomeet commitments associated with that sufficient funds are available to meet itsfinancial liabilities and respective anycommitments as they arise.
The treasury inappropriateness of going concern policy requires the Group to maintain a assumptions.
minimum level of cash of US$50 million.
The risks listed above do not comprise all those associated with the Groups business and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on the Groups business.
The risks listed above are continuously monitored by the management team and assessed when making business decisions.
This strategic report is approved by the Board.
Kai-Uwe Kessel Jan-Ru Muller Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 24 March 2015 24 March 2015 Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 62 62 No Nos st tr rum um O Oi il l & & G Ga as s P An LC n u An al n Ru ea plo R re t p 2o 01 rt4 2014 Corporate governance Corporate governance Committed to excellence in our governance 63 Chairmans overview 64 Board of directors 66 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC management team 66 Zhaikmunai LLP management team 68 Corporate governance approach 74 Audit Committee Report 80 Nomination and Governance Committee Report 81 Remuneration Committee Report 82 Annual report on remuneration 87 Directors remuneration policy 92 Directors Report
