Principal risks and uncertainties Risk management is fundamental to the Groups conduct and includes executing action plans around and within Ophir activities in order to protect business interests from risks.
Ophir works in a challenging environment that has risks that The elementary summary of Ophirs are characteristic to its activities, operational sites and assets.
risk management process is: Managing the risks associated with these challenges is explicit to addressing uncertainty to protect Ophir and create value.
The Board of Ophir has overall responsibility for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems.
Ophirs risk process involves all levels of management and decision making, and work to ensure clear reporting to Committees and ultimately the Board.
The Executive Directors report risk to the Board on a monthly basis or more regularly as required: the Risk Register is presented to them Identify twice annually.
During 2015 Ophir will review and look to further strengthen its risk processes and management.
Evaluate Respond Report Monitor 18 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Overview Strategy Performance Key performance indicators page 13 Risk identification management Bo ard of Directors Nicholas Smith Ronald Blakely Lyndon Powell Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Nick Cooper Alan Booth William Bill Schrader Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director William Bill Higgs Vivien Gibney Carol Bell Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Management Asset Managers Executive Directors On a monthly basis or more regularly as required Responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing risks Risk management performance in 2014 External risk achievements Strategic risk achievements Operational risk achievements Financial risk achievements Continued community Reinforced the process with Drilled eight operated wells Completed farm-out in Blocks development with local introduction of a Chief Operating and two 3D seismic surveys 1, 3 and 4 in Tanzania, and communities in countries Officer, Business Unit Directors safely and securely with no Ntsina, Mbeli, Gnondo and across the portfolio and Asset Manager structure major HSE incidents Manga Blocks in Gabon Maintained strong Divested non-core assets and Operated in high risk areas All excess cash balances held in dialogue with stakeholders focused investment on assets with no security incidents low risk and current or short-term including Governments with higher risk reward profile during the year deposits.
Internal audit review and shareholders Continued to meet or exceed all conducted of all Treasury and minimum PSC commitments cash management procedures across the portfolio Tight budget control on G&A spend and the drilling of seven out of eight operated wells during 2014 under budget Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 Principal risks and uncertainties continued The principal risks that have been identified within the Company are summarised as follows: Responsibility at Type Risk Mitigation Change functional level External Low commodity Maintenance of a strong balance sheet with discipline in capital allocation and cost management Director of price and adverse across the Company.
Finance market sentiment Manage capex and General and Administrative expenses G&A to navigate the Company through towards the the downturn.
E&P sector Continue to review the Companys cost structure and make sure it reflects the new oil price environment.
Global economic Act counter cyclically to take advantage of the opportunities developing from the industry downturn.
Director volatility Portfolio & Selectively exploit the low service costs that have resulted from the drop in the oil price.
Strategy Regularly review how external risks impact the Companys strategy and remain agile to change.
Capital constraints Aim to internally fund core exploration and appraisal activities from the addition of production Director of assets and monetise resources to generate cash flow.
Finance Diversify the sources of funding and apply prudent levels of debt to development and production activity to preserve balance sheet strength and flexibility.
Find resources for the minimal capital outlay and then monetise them for the highest possible price.
Only allocate capital to highest return opportunities following rigorous risk reward analysis.
Ensure that commercial terms on new acreage reflect the changing landscape and involve minimal financial commitments with options to exit pre-drill.
Legal compliance The Company accords the highest importance to corporate governance matters and upholding General Counsel regulatory or the highest ethical standards.
litigation risk Activities are subject to various different jurisdictional laws, customs, fiscal and administrative regulations.
The Company employs suitably experienced and qualified staff and, when required, external advisors to ensure full compliance.
Improved online due diligence system capturing third party risks, analysis of those risks plus approval decisions.
Legal risk assessment and due diligence where appropriate is undertaken for all counterparties the Company deals with.
Stakeholder Ophir is committed to sustainable development.
The Companys approach to Head of sentiment Corporate Responsibility underpins the way it does business.
Investor Relations & The Company continually strives to conduct operations in an ethical, responsible, Corporate apolitical, independent and transparent manner.
Communications Ophir places a strong emphasis on maintaining excellent relationships with the local Director communities and host country governments in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Corporate Ophir pro-actively interacts with stakeholders, maintaining regular dialogue and provision Services of information.
All material information is released to the market on a timely basis and in accordance with all applicable regulations.
There is ongoing monitoring of public sentiment towards the Company and its operations.
Ophir places great importance on values they expect staff to demonstrate in order to be respected by its stakeholders.
Political risk Ophir regularly monitors and seeks to understand changes taking place in political and regulatory Director environments and the potential for shocks to make recommendations to the Board.
Corporate Services Ophir maintains a balanced asset portfolio across different jurisdictions.
The Company strives to maintain positive relationships in host countries and work to the highest industry standards with regulators, closely monitoring compliance with the Companys licence and PSC obligations.
Strategic Investment decisions Focus on growing a revenue generating business to fund exploration activities and minimise the Director overall cost of capital.
Portfolio & Strategy Only allocate capital to highest return opportunities following rigorous risk reward analysis.
The Company and its advisors are experienced within the industry, and complete a proper review of the Companys strategy and investment criteria.
The current portfolio is closely monitored and new market opportunities continually reviewed.
A robust risk assessment and due diligence process is undertaken on all potential new entries.
Ophir endeavours to transact at the most appropriate time to create value for shareholders.
20 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Overview Strategy Performance Increased risk since 2013 Risk level remains the same since 2013 Decreased risk since 2013 Responsibility at Type Risk Mitigation Change functional level Inadequate resource The Company regularly reviews the organization to ensure it is appropriately resourced Director Human and reliance on key to deliver its objectives.
Resources personnel Ophir relies on the excellence of a team of experienced Oil and Gas professionals for its operational success.
In order to retain, motivate and recruit suitably qualified employees it ensures its remuneration packages are competitive.
It has established a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP for executives and a Deferred Share Plan for staff.
Operational Health Safety Ophir is committed to maintaining robust health, safety, security and environmental management Director and Environment and procedures in place in order to respond to unexpected events that have a direct impact on the Corporate HSE and Security Company and the communities it works alongside.
Services incident risk Thorough risk assessments to develop robust mitigation and response measures are designed and overseen by management and the Corporate Responsibility Committee which meets regularly to review and monitor compliance.
Comprehensive oil spill and emergency response plans are always in place with regular training in the procedures taking place with specialist service providers.
The Company has clear incountry control measures.
Drilling operations Ophir maintains clearly defined operational procedures.
Director of Drilling The contracting and procurement process ensures suitably qualified contractors are employed and trained in Ophirs best practices.
Regular training and continued monitoring of staff adherence to HSE procedures.
The Company frequently reviews project management techniques.
Discovery risk and To achieve value creation through exploration the Company has technically and regionally Head of success rate experienced management and geoscience teams with a proven record of success.
Exploration Africa and To reduce risk, substantial technical analysis is undertaken to evaluate and manage opportunities.
Head of During 2014 Ophir has significantly rebuilt its exploration footprint in order to have access to a Exploration high-graded exploration portfolio of world class potential.
Asia Exit licences where the Company do not believe the model of finding and then monetising resource exists.
IT risk Regular monitoring and review of IT security vulnerabilities that could lead to information Head of IT security breaches.
Various standard industry systems and processes in place to manage security, power outages and network disruptions, thereby minimising downtime to operations and corporate offices.
Availability of rigs Regular market review of services and rig availability occurs.
Engagement of experienced advisors Director Drilling and services to ensure a rapid response to opportunities and an ability to close binding agreements quickly.
A dedicated drilling project manager and Contracts and Procurement C&P Manager ensure a clear contracting strategy and project plan are produced early in the procurement planning stage.
Financial Inability to fund Regular review of cash flow, working capital and funding options, and prudent approach to Director exploration work budgeting and planning, to ensure sufficient capital to meet commitments.
of Finance programmes Counterparty Close monitoring of all trade debtors which are subject to internal credit review.
Director creditrisk of Finance Cost and capital In the present oil price environment Ophir is focused on preserving its balance sheet and during Director spending 2014 and into 2015 there has been an increased focus on cost management and capital allocation.
of Finance Whilst the Company doubled the physical size of its exploration footprint in 2014, it has secured new acreage without any commitment wells, which maintains balance sheet flexibility.
Optimise and protect Ophirs capital by capturing highest commercial returns on assets, prioritised its capital expenditure to protect its balance sheet and reduce its cost structure.
A formalised annual budget process and ongoing monthly reviews of actuals to budget analysis.
Delegation of authority, approval processes and C&P procedures.
Board approval of Annual Work Programme.
Interest rate Cash balances are primarily held in US Dollars to provide a natural hedge to reflect that the Director and foreign majority of the Companys business is managed and conducted using US Dollars.
Small balances of Finance exchange risk are retained in other currencies for operating and administrative needs.
Cash balances are held in current or short-term deposits.
Further details on principal financial risks are addressed in Note 20 on page 119 in the Companys consolidated financial statements.
