com Principal Risks and Uncertainties Specific risk Context Risk Possible impact Associated strategic priorities Mitigation The Group provides high technology Failure of the advanced technologies Lower profitability and Realising the brand: Using Voice of the Customer The Group has moved away from large scale, single customer development Technical equipment and systems to its customers.
applied by the Group to produce financial returns.
to drive rapid new product development.
programmes towards more commercially orientated products.
risk commercial products, capable of being Negative impact on the Liberate cash: Support and develop our employees The New Product Introduction programme that any new R&D projects must pass manufactured and sold profitably.
to maximise their value add.
through provides a framework within which the commercial viability of projects arescrutinised and assessed.
The recent global recession and prevailing Demand for the Groups products may Lower profitability and Realising the brand: Developing a strong brand The Group has a broad spread of customers, applications and geographical markets.
Economic economic downturn have resulted in cuts belower than anticipated.
environment The Group is expanding in the so called BRIC nations, whose markets have been to both Government and private Delivering shareholder value: Focus on balanced more resilient during the economic downturn.
Part of the growth of Oxford Instruments Appropriate acquisition targets may not Lower profitability and Realising the brand: Developing a strong brand in Extensive financial and technical due diligence is undertaken by the Group during Acquisitions isplanned to come from acquisitions beavailable in the necessary timescale.
whichprovide the Group with Alternatively, once acquired, targets may Management focus Inventing the future: Using Voice of the Each transaction has a comprehensive post acquisition integration plan which complementary technologies.
fail to provide the planned value.
takenaway from Customer to drive rapid new product development.
isreviewed at the highest level.
thecore business Adding personal value: Supporting and developing inorder to manage our employees.
A significant proportion of the Groups The Groups profit levels are exposed to Lower profitability and Delivering shareholder value: Focus on balanced The Group seeks to mitigate the exposure to transactional risk by the use of natural Foreign profit is made in foreign currencies.
exchange volatility Liberating cash: Developing a competitive global The remaining transactional foreign exchange risk in any year is mitigated through supply base that supports our growth.
the use of forward and non-premium based option exchange contracts.
The Groups strategic plan includes the Failures in the supply chain impacting sales.
Liberating cash: Developing a competitive global Relationships with outsourcing businesses are monitored closely and any potential Outsourcing outsourcing of a significantly higher supply base that supports our growth.
issues are acted upon swiftly to avoid disruption.
Negative impact on the proportion of the costs of its products Groups reputation.
Realising the brand: Developing a strong brand Where practical dual sources are used for key components and services.
tobenefit from economies of scale and inexisting and developing markets.
The Groups calculated pension Movements in the actuarial assumptions Additional cash required Delivering shareholder value: Focus on balanced The Group has closed its defined benefit pension schemes in the UK and US Pensions deficitissensitive to changes may have an appreciable effect on the by the Group to fund and attractive global markets.
Liberating cash: Developing a competitive global The Group has a funding plan in place to reduce the pension deficit over the short Reduction in net assets.
supply base that supports our growth.
A number of the Groups employees The employee leaves the Group.
Lower profitability and Adding personal value: Supporting and developing The Group undertakes a regular employee survey and implements and reviews People arebusiness critical.
Inventing the future: Providing an environment for A comprehensive succession planning process is in place, together with a talent inventing and innovation.
network which identifies and manages contacts with people who could provide external succession for critical current and future roles.
A management development programme provides exposure to key skills needed forgrowth.
Regular individual performance reviews take place.
In some instances the Groups products are The systems integrator switches supplier Lower profitability and Inventing the future: Developing products that Use of the stage gate process and Voice of the Customer to make sure that the Routes to components of higher level systems and denying the Groups route to market.
Groups products are the best in the market.
market thus the Group does not control its route Realising the brand: Ensuring that end Co-marketing with system integrators to promote the merits of the Groups products to market.
customersappreciate the benefits of Oxford to end customers.
Seeking to increase the number of integrators supplied by the Group.
16 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Specific risk Context Risk Possible impact Associated strategic priorities Mitigation The Group provides high technology Failure of the advanced technologies Lower profitability and Realising the brand: Using Voice of the Customer The Group has moved away from large scale, single customer development Technical equipment and systems to its customers.
Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 17
