Strategic report Risk management and principal risks Robust risk managementprocesses The Group operates a system of internal control and risk management inorder to provide assurance that it is managing risk whilst achieving its business objectives.
The Groups systems are designed to identify and manage, rather than eliminate, 1.
2. significant business risks, including the risk offailure to achieve business objectives, Identify risk Evaluate risk but can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assuranceagainst material misstatement orloss.
No system can fully eliminate risk and therefore the understanding of operational risk is central to the management process within Pace.
The long-term success of the Group depends on the continual review, 4.
3. assessment and control of the key business Monitor risk Mitigate risk risks it faces.
Toenable shareholders to appreciate what the business considers are the main operational risks, they are briefly outlined below.
Change since Risk Potential impact Mitigations prior year Customers and markets Strategic risks Revenue concentration from a small number Volatile revenue Procedures are in place to monitor oflarge customers.
the financial and operating strength of customers.
Customer orders are typically short to mid-term commitments with no long-term guarantee.
Suppliers The Group works on long lead times Lack of flexibility.
Procedures are in place to monitor forcomponent supply and manufacture.
the financial and operating strength Loss of product ofsuppliers.
Concentration on a small number availability.
The Group uses dual or multi-source suppliers where possible to mitigate therisk.
18 Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit & Risk Committee onpages 31 to 33 Change since Risk Potential impact Mitigations prior year Royalty claims Financial risks The Groups products incorporate Cash outflow.
The Audit & Risk Committee and .
Board receive asemi-annual report Reputational damage.
from the General Counsel regarding Inadvertent actions may expose the Group royalty claims under negotiation.
totherisk of infringing third-party intellectual Allmaterial claims are monitored property rights.
Currency risks The Group operates globally and is exposed Adverse impact The Groups treasury policy is to toforeign exchange risks on both revenue ontheincome progressively hedge cash flows when andcosts.
they are sufficiently certain and to seek price variations through contractual mechanisms.
Innovation Other risks The product development process can take Loss of technology Engineering teams split into overtwelve months.
Research and development effort may not be SBU teams closely aligned to customer appropriately targeted on the correct areas.
Risk has increased in current year due toacquisition of Aurora Networks.
Product liability claims The Group is exposed to the risk of product Cash outflow.
The Group has in place quality liability claims made by customers or affected control and other operational Reputational damage.
Natural disasters Appropriateness of business continuity plans.
Loss of ability to Business continuity management servicecustomer programmes exist internally and demand.
IT environment Major system failure, information security breach Loss of ability to service IT general and application controls.
In addition, the Audit & Risk Committee considers other strategic and financial risks which are relevant to the Group.
Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19
