STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES PayPoints business, financial condition or operations could be materially and adversely affected by the risks summarised below.
Although management takes steps to mitigate risks where possible or where the cost of doing so is reasonable in relation to the probability and seriousness of the risk, it may not be possible to avoid the crystallisation of some or all of such risks.
The groups risk management policies and procedures are also discussed in the governance statement on page 20.
Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies Loss or inappropriate usage The groups business requires the appropriate The group has established rigorous information of data and secure use of consumer and other sensitive security, anti-fraud and whistleblowing standards, information.
Mobile telephone and internet-based procedures, and recruitment and training schemes, electronic commerce requires the secure transmission which are embedded throughout its business of confidential information over public networks, operations.
The group also screens new employees and several of our products are accessed through the carefully.
Continued investments are made in IT internet.
Fraudulent activity or security breaches in security infrastructure, including the significant use connection with maintaining data and the delivery of of data and communications encryption technology.
our products and services could harm our reputation, business and operating results.
Dependence upon third parties The groups business model is dependent upon third The group selects and negotiates agreements with to provide data and certain parties to provide operational services, the loss of strategic suppliers and agents based on criteria operational services which could significantly impact the quality of our such as delivery assurance and reliability.
Similarly, if one of our outsource providers, points of failure are avoided, where practicable including third parties with whom we have strategic and economically feasible.
Controls are continually relationships, were to experience financial or reviewed and improved to minimise risk of retailer operational difficulties, their services to us would churn caused by financial loss to retailers through suffer or they may no longer be able to provide fraudulent third party activity.
services to us at all, significantly impacting delivery of our products or services.
Exposure to legislation or The group is largely unregulated by financial services The groups legal department works closely with regulatory reforms and risk of regulators although, in the UK, we are seeking senior management to adopt strategies to educate non-compliance Payment Institution status for prefunded cash payments legislature, regulators, consumer and privacy to consumers and to allow the online business to advocates and other stakeholders to support the act as a master merchant for SME online merchants.
public policy debate, where appropriate, to ensure The groups agents which offer money transfer are regulation does not have unintended consequences licensed as Money Service Businesses by HMRC.
Our over the groups services.
The group has in place Mobile and Online business is subject to Payment Card a business ethics policy which requires compliance Industry Data Security Standards regulated by the card with local legislation in all the territories in schemes.
Regulatory reform could increase the cost which the group operates.
A central compliance of the groups operations or deny access to certain department co-ordinates all compliance monitoring territories in the provision of certain services.
Managing and finance directors are compliance with law, regulation, privacy or information required to sign annual compliance statements.
security laws could have serious implications in cost and reputational damage to the group.
Interruptions in business The groups ability to provide reliable services Comprehensive business continuity plans and processes or systems largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted incident management programmes are maintained operation of our computer network systems, to minimise business and operational disruptions, financial settlement systems, data and call centres, as including fraudulent activity, system failure or well as maintaining sufficient staffing levels.
Support arrangements have or network interruptions, recovery from fraud or been established with third party vendors and there security incidents or the unavailability of key staff or are strict standards, procedures and training schemes management resulting from a pandemic outbreak for business continuity.
could delay and disrupt our ability to develop, deliver or maintain our products and services, causing harm to our business and reputation and resulting in loss of customers or revenue.
Dependence on recruitment The ability of the group to meet the demands of the Effective recruitment programmes are ongoing and retention of highly skilled market and compete effectively is, to a large extent, across all business areas, as well as personal and personnel dependent on the skills, experience and performance career development initiatives.
The executive of its personnel.
Demand is high for individuals with management reviews talent potential at quarterly appropriate knowledge and experience in payments, meetings.
Compensation and benefits programmes IT and support services.
The inability to attract, are competitive and also reviewed regularly.
motivate or retain key talent could have a serious consequence on the groups ability to service client commitments and grow our business.
PayPoint plc annual report 2014 11 STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies Technology change may render There are rapid changes in technology in the IT development resource is directed at a group level products obsolete payments industry, including the development of and developments are in hand to ensure the group has new payment methods, particularly on smart phones relevant products in place to meet the demands brought and tablets, but also as a consequence of technology about by changing technology.
For smart meters, a changes in other areas, e. g. smart meters, which multi-channel product is under development.
will replace the use of the energy keys and gas cards currently used to pay for prepaid energy.
Exposure to materially adverse The group contracts with a number of large service The group seeks to limit exposure in its contracts.
litigation organisations for which it provides services essential Mitigating actions are taken where contractual to their customers.
Failure to perform in accordance exposures are above the norm, including with contractual terms could give rise to litigation.
insurance coverage, where appropriate and economically sustainable.
Exposure to country and The groups geographic footprint subjects its The groups portfolio is diversified by geography, by regional risk political, financial, businesses to economic, political and other risks product, by sector and by client in order to protect economic, social in North associated with international sales and operations.
itself against many of these fluctuations, especially America, United Kingdom, A variety of factors, including changes in a specific those that are restricted to individual territories and Romania, France and Ireland countrys or regions political, economic or regulatory market sectors, although the bulk of its operations requirements, as well as the potential for geopolitical and revenues are UK based.
turmoil, including terrorism and war, could result in loss of services, prevent our ability to respond to agreed service levels or fulfil other obligations.
These risks are generally outside the control of the group.
Exposure to consolidation Consolidation of retailers and clients could result No single client accounts for more than 9% of the among clients and markets in reductions in the groups revenue and profits groups net revenue, and no single retailer accounts through price compression from combined service for more than 5% of the groups net revenue, agreements or through a reduced number of clients.
which reduces the probability of this potential risk having a significant impact on the groups business.
In addition, the group continues to expand in its developing businesses, and in CashOut reversing the flow of money through its retail networks.
Acquisitions may not meet The groups acquisitions, strategic alliances and joint The group assesses all acquisitions rigorously, using expectations ventures may result in financial outcomes that are both in-house experts and professional advisers.
In addition, the group conducts regular reviews to monitor performance.
Exposure to the unpredictability As the group operates on an international basis, it The groups financial risk management focuses on of financial markets foreign is exposed to the risk of currency fluctuations and the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to exchange, interest rate and the unpredictability of financial markets in which minimise potentially adverse effects on the groups other financial risks it operates.
Exposure to increasing The group operates in a number of geographic, The group is committed to continued research and competition product and service markets that are highly investment in new data sources, people, technology competitive and subject to technological and products to support its strategic plan.
developments, for example, the introduction of smart meters and new payment solutions.
Competitors may develop products and services that are superior to ours or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services, which could result in the loss of clients, merchants and retailers or a reduction in revenue.
Loss or infringement of The groups success depends, in part, upon The group, where appropriate and feasible, relies intellectual property rights proprietary technology and related intellectual upon a combination of patent, copyright, trademark property rights.
Some protection can be achieved and trade secret laws, as well as various contractual but, in many cases, little protection can be secured.
restrictions, to protect our proprietary technology and Third parties may claim that the group is infringing continues to monitor this situation.
The group also their intellectual property rights or our intellectual vigorously defends all third party infringement claims.
property rights could be infringed by third parties.
If we do not enforce or defend the groups intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position may suffer, which could harm our operating results.
Data centre security breaches The group is highly dependent on information The groups data centres are protected against technology networks and systems to process, physical break-ins.
The group has strict standards transmit and store electronic information.
and procedures for security and fraud prevention.
Fraudulent or unauthorised access, including security breaches of our data centres, could create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorised disclosure of confidential information.
12 PayPoint plc annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS, EMPLOYEES, SOCIAL, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS PayPoint is committed to dealing fairly and with a high level of integrity with all its stakeholders, including clients, retailers, merchants, consumers, local communities, employees and shareholders.
We comply with statutory obligations in all areas and subject our practices to high levels of scrutiny.
We publish results twice each year and provide two interim management statements, complying with reporting and disclosure obligations.
This report sets out our approach and the way we measure our success in dealing with each group of stakeholders.
Clients and Retailers and Local communities Shareholders merchants consumers Information Over 6,000 clients and Over 35,000 retailers Where our employees 537 shareholders at online merchants in in three countries and live and work.
provide a service to stakeholders millions of consumers.
Impact Provision of convenient To provide stable, reliable Financial support to Maximise shareholder services for consumer and a broad range of local charities.
services to help generate consumer footfall for retailers who serve their communities.
Engagement Provision of a high We seek to provide an Staff are encouraged to PayPoint focuses standard of service to unparalleled service to our nominate local charities on maximising our clients and open retailers and consumers.
Client contracts contain service PayPoint has adopted a level agreements, which charitable giving policy are set to a high standard.
which supports the local Specific performance communities in which its is measured for key employees live and work elements, including system by matching funds raised availability and file delivery.
by employees, subject to certain limits.
How we Communication - major In the UK, terminal During the period, Shareholders are invited to clients have regular review availability is over 99% PayPoint donated attend the annual general interact and meetings with dedicated and when a terminal 23,879 to local and meeting and major support the sector managers.
needs to be replaced, it is national charities, which shareholders are visited stakeholders achieved within four hours was supplemented by twice a year to discuss the across the UK in 97% employees who also groups results.
The breadth donate to some of of products offered by these charities through PayPoint has been PayPoint is greater than various schemes.
a constituent of the any other network.
FTSE4Good Index We offer our network to since 2008.
An annual retailer collect for certain charities survey is carried out to free of charge, including understand how we can the BBCs Children in improve our service.
also invite retailers to attend an annual forum to 31% of PayPoints ATM discuss new products and network is speechobtain retailer feedback.
enabled, the largest proportion of an Major multiple retailers independent network in have regular review the UK.
This achievement meetings with dedicated was recognised with an account managers.
exemplar award by the Royal National Institute of Blind People in June 2013.
PayPoint sponsors a category award at the Hertfordshire Community Awards, recognising exceptional service in the community in which many of our employees live.
PayPoint plc annual report 2014 13 STRATEGIC REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS, EMPLOYEES, SOCIAL, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS continued The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based Environment upon the Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including PayPoints main impact on the environment stems from our use mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance, of resources to run offices in the UK, Ireland, Romania, Canada June 2013 issued by DEFRA, which make it clear that, in most and France and our communications with our retailers.
cases, whether an operation is controlled by the organisation or not, does not vary based on whether the financial control or We measure our carbon footprint in accordance with the Green operational control approach is used.
The 2013 UK Government House Gas GHG protocol.
This allows us to monitor, by region, GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting have been our carbon footprint and implement, where practical, targets to used to calculate our emissions based on data gathered from reduce our carbon footprint.
each of our business units.
The two primary sources of PayPoints carbon emissions are Global GHG emissions data for the year is as follows: business travel and energy consumption.
We visit existing and prospective retailers in the UK, Ireland and Romania.
Routes are 52 weeks 53 weeks pre-planned to ensure efficiency where possible.
Management ended ended regularly visits our businesses to review and improve 31 March 31 March performance.
We aim to avoid unnecessary travel.
Energy Impact Units 2014 2013 consumption arises from our offices in the UK, Romania and Canada.
We have a cycle to work scheme for our UK employees.
Scope 1 direct emissions tonnes We encourage employees not to print unless necessary and our from fuel combustion CO e 357 474 2 board papers are sent electronically rather than printed and sent Scope 2 indirect emissions by post.
from purchased electricity, tonnes heat and cooling CO e 1,256 1,308 2 PayPoints services help consumers to reduce the number of Scope 3 business travel, tonnes unnecessary car journeys through the convenience of our waste and water CO e 932 791 outlets, which are usually available within a short walking 2 distance.
Collect consolidated over 13m parcels into 1.5m Total 2,545 2,573 store visits in the last year, saving millions of van deliveries to Intensity measurement: each consumers home address.
Total tonnes of CO e 2 1 per employee 2.4% 2.9% We recycle wherever possible, including paper, cans, plastic 1.
We have used the average number of employees to calculate our intensity cups, cardboard, toners and print cartridges.
We also recycle measure as the majority of our emissions are directly related to business travel computer equipment.
This has resulted in an increase in the and energy consumption at our head office locations.
proportion of waste recycled to 54% of all waste generated 2013: 53%.
Total waste has increased in the year due to the Human rights rise in employee numbers and head office locations as the PayPoint supports fundamental human rights, such as the business has grown.
right to privacy, safety and to be treated fairly, with dignity and respect.
Our employment standard sets out our commitment to good employment practices and the principles to govern 52 weeks 53 weeks the practices adopted in each of our businesses.
All employees ended ended have a right to safe conditions of work, consideration of their 31 March 31 March welfare, fair terms of employment, reward and treatment, 1 2014 2013 clarity and openness about what is expected.
PayPoint offers an Tonnes Tonnes Change % environment where all are treated equally and which is free from discrimination in respect of gender, ethnicity, religion, sexual Waste orientation, age or disability.
Landfill 15.4 13.9 10.8 Recycled 18.4 15.6 17.9 Employees PayPoint employed, on average, 687 members of staff Total 33.8 29.5 14.6 during the period.
We operate an equal opportunities % recycled 54.4% 52.9% 1.5 ppts policy.
PayPoints culture is one of openness, honesty and accountability and we recognise that all employees play a part 1.
The waste numbers shown for the prior period have been restated to reflect in delivering the groups performance.
additional landfill data now captured.
PayPoint seeks to improve its employees working environment.
Employees are invited to participate in two staff meetings a GHG emissions year where the directors present the performance of the group.
In this section we report on all required greenhouse gas GHG Overseas offices participate by webcam.
In addition, there are emissions in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic a variety of management presentations to employees on key Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013. points of topical interest and functional meetings take place throughout the year at our various offices.
PayPoint believes We report using a financial control approach to define our that keeping its employees informed of new developments organisational boundary.
A range of approaches can be taken to and products as well as the financial performance of the group determine the boundaries of an organisation for the purposes motivates the employees and helps them understand the of GHG reporting, including financial control, operational groups progress towards its goals and objectives.
PayPoints employment policies are designed to attract, retain and motivate the best people.
All staff are given two appraisals per annum, which cover performance management, employee development, training and succession planning where applicable.
Training is undertaken locally and all employees are given equal opportunities to develop their experience and their careers.
14 PayPoint plc annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS, EMPLOYEES, SOCIAL, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS continued Employees in the UK, Ireland, North America and Romania PayPoints employees are asked annually to complete an anonymous employee 3 UK Rest of the world engagement survey which covers a wide range of subjects, including goal clarity, employee involvement, job satisfaction, 52 weeks 53 weeks 52 weeks 53 weeks learning and development and management effectiveness.
ended ended ended ended This survey is used to agree with employees the actions 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March necessary for improvement.
2014 2013 2014 2013 1 PayPoint has the following policies in place: General equal opportunities - we treat job applicants, employees Average and temporary staff equally, regardless of their sex, sexual number of staff orientation, age, race, ethnic origin or disability.
It is also the employed during groups policy to retain employees who may become disabled the period 512 464 175 156 while in service and provide appropriate training as necessary: Average length of service 5 years 5 years 2 years 2 years whistle-blowing - we are committed to ensuring that malpractice is prevented and immediately dealt with, should it Average staff arise.
We encourage employees to raise their concerns about turnover during any malpractice promptly and we have an established procedure the period 21% 23% 9% 17% for raising any such concerns: Sickness absence health and safety - we recognise that effective health and rate 1.6% 1.5% 1.5% 1.1% safety management is fundamental to running a successful % working business.
We are committed to operating high standards, part-time 10% 9% 4% 2% designed to minimise the risk of injuries and ill health to employees, contractors, visitors and others who come into 1 Gender diversity contact with the business, so far as is reasonably practicable: Number disciplinary and grievance procedures - we provide a fair of women and consistent method of dealing with disciplinary problems employed 193 198 69 59 and treat misconduct with appropriate action.
We ensure that we treat any grievance an employee may have relating to their % of all employment in a fair and reasonable manner: employees 41% 43% 39% 38% Number of men bullying and harassment - we promote a working employed 319 266 106 97 environment free of harassment and individuals who believe that they are being subjected to any form of harassment are % of all encouraged to come forward to have the issue resolved: employees 59% 57% 61% 62% PayPoint plc business ethics - we set out clear standards for ethical directors: relationships and conduct to be maintained by employees and sub-contractors and conduct our business in accordance with Number the highest ethical standards.
We do not offer or accept any of women bribes: and employed - - - - training and development - all employees meet twice a % of PayPoint year with their line manager to discuss performance and plc directors 0% 0% - - any development needs.
Training is provided either in-house Number of men or externally.
We also sponsor employees through further employed 10 9 - - professional and technical qualifications.
We promote internally, where appropriate.
% of PayPoint plc directors 100% 100% - - Senior management: Number of women employed 2 2 - - % of senior management 22% 22% 0% 0% Number of men employed 7 7 1 1 % of senior management 78% 78% 100% 100% 1.
Numbers based on employees employed at the end of each month 2.
Senior management includes the group executive, managing directors, the Group HR director and Group Head of Legal Company Secretary 3.
Rest of the world includes Ireland, Romania, Canada and France PayPoint plc annual report 2014 15 STRATEGIC REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS, EMPLOYEES, SOCIAL, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS continued PayPoints employees - continued 3 UK Rest of the world 52 weeks 53 weeks 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended ended ended 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Ethnic 1 minorities % of all employees 25% 24% 9% 8% % of management grades 3% 3% 10% 6% Disabled 1 employees % of all employees 1% 0% 0% 0% 1 Age profile Employees under 25 54 54 13 12 Employees 25 to 29 88 90 38 36 Employees 30 to 49 282 262 117 107 Employees 50 and over 88 66 7 3 1.
Rest of the world includes Ireland, Romania, Canada and France Approved by the board of directors and signed on behalf of the board.
Dominic Taylor Chief Executive 29 May 2014 16 PayPoint plc annual report 2014
