34 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties Identifying and assessing risk The audit committee provides oversight and reassurance to the board with regard to the procedures for the Our principal risks and uncertainties are outlined below.
identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
See page These are the most significant risks that may adversely 71 for the committees risk-related activities during 2014, affect our business strategy, financial position or future including deep dives into selected principal risks.
The risk assessment process evaluates the probability of the risk materialising and the financial or Management is responsible for considering and executing strategic impact of the risk.
Those risks which have a the appropriate action to mitigate these risks whenever higher probability and significant impact on strategy, possible.
It is not possible to identify every risk that could reputation or operations, or a financial impact greater affect our businesses, and the actions taken to mitigate the than 40m are identified as principal risks.
risks described below cannot provide absolute assurance that a risk will not materialise and or adversely affect our The risk assessment and reporting criteria are designed business or financial performance.
to provide the board with a consistent, Group-wide perspective of the key risks.
The reports to the board, Risk appetite There are certain areas where we do not which are submitted twice per year, include an assessment have any appetite to take risks, such as complying with of the probability and impact of risks materialising, as well laws on anti-bribery and corruption or the safety and as risk mitigation initiatives and their effectiveness.
In other areas, such as strategy and change, we recognise the importance of managed riskThe identification of the principal Group risks is informed taking in order to achieve business objectives and goals.
by discussions with each Line of Business, Geography and During 2015, further work is being done to define risk key enabling functions, identifying key risks and assessing appetite and tolerance and to embed this more formally the adequacy of mitigating controls.
into decision-making and day-to-day business activities.
The Pearson executive members have oversight of risks relevant to each of their areas of responsibility.
This is now included in their goals and objectives.
OUR PRINcIPAl GROUP RISKS Government regulation and decisions 1 Outlined here are the most significant 2 Digital and services evolution and market forces risks that may affect our future.
We 3 Acquisitions, divestments and joint ventures assess the probability of the risk materialising and the financial or 4 Business transformation and change strategic impact of the risk.
The risks 5 talent with greatest potential impact are identified as principal risks.
6 customer facing systems 7 testing failure Learn more about Principal risks 8 Safety, safeguarding and protection and uncertainties on p36-37 9 tax 10 Intellectual property Data privacy and cyber security 11 12 Anti-bribery and corruption lEGAl AND FINANcIAl OPERAtIONAl StRAtEGY AND cOmPlIANcE RISKS RISKS cHANGE RISKS OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 2 Our performance 35 Our principal risks With the increased focus on growing our direct delivery business activities, there has been a need to improve Risk categories To aid in the identification of risks and the effective management of related operational risks.
development of associated mitigating actions, risks are This includes the safety and security of our learners, which categorised into four main areas: strategy and change, is reflected as a new principal risk.
Specific roles have been operational, financial, and legal and compliance.
created and filled to ensure there is expertise to deal Key changes to Group risks in 2014 As set out in the our with these areas and this will continue to be a focus area performance section, 2014 was a year of considerable in 2015. change across the Group.
These changes provide the With the accelerating shift to digital products, we foundation for significant mitigation of strategic and continue to look at ways that we can improve our market risks, including the shift to digital and services.
customers experience of our products and services.
But with change there can be an increase in risk in the This is particularly the case for products where there are short-term.
Additional governance and oversight was periods of peak demand on our systems, such as back to put in place to mitigate these change-related risks.
A dedicated cross-business task force has new organisation structure stabilised, there was resulting been put in place to ensure that root causes are addressed clarity in roles and responsibilities.
This, together with the and improvements implemented.
appointment of management and staff to key positions, assisted in mitigating risk in a number of key areas.
learn more about Risk Governance on p76 RISK ASSESSmENt 8 12 1 11 5 2 4 6 10 9 7 3 PROBABIlItY ImPAct financial, reputational, strategic, operational 36 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties continued StRAtEGIc & cHANGE RISKS Risk mitigation Government regulation and decisions: In the US we actively monitor changes through participation in advisory Changes in funding, policy and or regulations boards and representation on standard setting committees.
Our customer 1 impact business model and or content relationship teams have detailed knowledge of each state market.
We work decisions across all markets.
through our own corporate affairs team and our industry trade associations including the Association of American Publishers.
We are also monitoring municipal funding and the impact on our education receivables.
In the UK we maintain relationships with those government departments and agencies that are responsible for policy and funding.
We work proactively with them to ensure our programmes meet existing and new government objectives at the right quality level.
Across all of our other markets, local management monitor and respond to potential and actual changes in regulations, supported by our global corporate affairs team.
This includes Growth markets of China, India, Brazil and South Africa.
Digital and services evolution and market Our global education strategy will drive a faster move to digital and services, forces: Failure to successfully invest in and recognising that this is a significant opportunity for Pearson, as well as a 2 deliver the right products and services.
We are transforming our products and services for the digital environment along with managing our print inventories.
Our content is being adapted to new technologies across our businesses and is priced to drive demand.
We develop new distribution channels by adapting our product offering and investing in new formats.
As set out on page 38-43, our focus on efficacy is driving our decisions on how and where we invest in products and services.
Acquisitions, divestments and joint ventures: We perform pre-transaction due diligence and closely monitor actual Failure to generate anticipated revenue performance to ensure we are meeting operational and financial targets.
3 growth, synergies and or cost savings from Any divergence from these plans will result in management action to improve acquisitions, mergers and other business performance and minimise the risk of any impairments.
Executive management combinations could lead to goodwill and and the board receive regular reports on the status of acquisitions and intangible asset impairments.
mergers, with a formal review once per year.
Business transformation and change: As noted in the Chairmans introduction, the most difficult phase of our The pace and scope of our business transformation has now been completed.
There remain a number of 4 transformation initiatives increase the important change initiatives in progress, such as the Enabling Programme, execution risk that benefits may not be fully which will deliver sustainable improvements in finance, human resources and realised, costs of these changes may increase, operations.
In addition to usual good practices in place for project and change or that our business as usual activities do not management, there is enhanced governance, monitoring and reporting in place perform in line with expectations.
for these most significant change initiatives.
Talent: Failure to attract, retain and develop Through the changes during 2013 and 2014, we have been successful in staff, including adapting to new skill sets promoting our best internal talent and recruiting individuals who are global 5 required to run the business.
leaders in their specific field.
As part of our transformation, we have made and continue to make improvements in a number of areas that are key to mitigating talent risk.
These include: clear employee objectives and development plans: an allemployee engagement survey, with action plans as appropriate: succession planning and talent management: and competitive remuneration plans.
See page 65 for details of the boards talent review.
OPERAtIONAl RISKS Risk mitigation Customer facing systems: Failure to maintain Effective project management disciplines are in place to ensure that and support customer facing services, enhancements and new products meet the required standards.
Real-time 6 systems, and platforms, including quality monitoring and reporting of operational performance is used to identify and timely execution of new products any issues and direct appropriate responses.
A Quality Task Force QTF is in place to oversee improvements to ensure our customers experience is one that is expected from a digital business.
This initiative has already delivered significant tactical improvements and is driving longer-term, strategic improvements.
OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 2 Our performance 37 OPERAtIONAl RISKS Risk mitigation Testing failure: A control breakdown or We seek to minimise the risk of a breakdown in our student marking with the use service failure in our school assessment of robust quality assurance procedures and controls and oversight of contract 7 and qualifications businesses could result performance, combined with our investment in technology, project management in financial loss and reputational damage.
and skills development of our people.
Our professional services and school In addition to the internal business procedures and controls implemented to assessment businesses involve complex ensure we successfully deliver on our contractual commitments, we also seek contractual relationships with both to develop and maintain good relationships with our customers to minimise government agencies and commercial associated risks.
customers for the provision of various We also look to diversify our portfolio to minimise reliance on any single testing services.
growth prospects and or reputation may be adversely affected if these contracts and relationships are poorly managed.
Safety, safeguarding and protection: Recognising the importance of managing evolving risks associated with our direct Failure to adequately protect children delivery business models, we created and filled the role of a head of safeguarding 8 and learners, particularly in our direct and protection.
See page 49 for further details.
FINANcIAl RISKS Risk mitigation Tax: Risk that changes in tax law or Our tax strategy reflects our business strategy and the locations and financing perceptions on tax planning strategies needs of our operations.
In common with many companies, we seek to manage 9 lead to higher effective tax rate or our tax affairs to protect value for our shareholders, in line with our broader negative reputational impact.
We are committed to complying with all statutory obligations, to undertake full disclosure to tax authorities and to follow agreed policies and procedures with regard to tax planning and strategy.
Oversight of tax strategy is within the remit of the audit committee, which receives a report on this topic at least once a year.
All of the audit committee members are independent non-executive directors.
The chief financial officer is responsible for tax strategy: the conduct of our tax affairs and the management of tax risk are delegated to a global team of tax professionals.
lEGAl RISKS Risk mitigation Intellectual property: If we do not We seek to mitigate this type of risk through general vigilance, co-operation adequately protect our intellectual with other publishers and trade associations, advances in technology, as well 10 property and proprietary rights our as recourse to law as necessary.
Digital rights management standards and competitive position and results may be monitoring programmes have been developed.
We have a piracy task force adversely affected and limit our ability to identify weaknesses and remediate breaches.
We monitor activities and to grow.
regulations in each market for developments in copyright intellectual property law and enforcement and take legal action where necessary.
Data privacy and cyber security: Failure to Through our global enterprise information security and compliance programme, comply with data privacy regulations and we have established a governance model: security and privacy framework and 11 standards or weakness in information policies: a global security and privacy organisational model: and standard-based security, including a failure to prevent or information security and privacy controls and practices.
detect a malicious attack on our systems, We constantly test and re-evaluate our data security procedures and controls could result in a major data privacy breach across all our businesses with the aim of ensuring personal data is secured and causing reputational damage to our brands we comply with relevant legislation and contractual requirements.
We pursue and financial loss.
appropriate privacy accreditations, e. g. TRUSTe Privacy and Safe Harbor Seal.
We regularly monitor regulation changes to assess the impact on existing processes and programmes.
We have established a global security operations centre that provides ongoing monitoring of potential malicious attacks on our infrastructure and systems.
Anti-bribery and corruption: Failure to Our ABC compliance programme was rolled out in 2011 to support compliance effectively manage risks associated with with UK Bribery Act, in line with adequate procedures guidance.
Our zero 12 compliance to global and local ABC legislation.
tolerance approach is also designed to comply with all other global and local ABC laws and regulations.
We have a risk-based programme of training online and face-to-face.
Our ABC policy is communicated to third-parties and forms part of our contractual terms for higher-risk third-parties.
