Strategic report - Group Principal risks and uncertainties How we manage risk We operate a well established and fully embedded Group wide risk management process from which we seek to identify significant risks at the earliest possible stage and determine whether they are acceptable risks which we can manage and mitigate satisfactorily.
More detail on our risk management process is set out in our corporate governance report.
The risks and uncertainties set out in this section have been identified from our risk management process as potentially having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.
They are managed as described but are not wholly within our control and may still result in having a material adverse impact on the Group and its business activities, as may factors besides those listed.
Key Risk Level Increased during year Low The colouring red, amber, green is our estimate of the inherent risk level to the Group after mitigation.
Unchanged during the year Medium It is important to note that risks are difficult to estimate with accuracy and therefore may be more or less Reduced during the year High significant than indicated.
South West Water Law and regulation Risk Mitigation Change Changes in law, regulation or South West Waters PR14 business plan is aligned with the decisions by governmental bodies changes in the regulatory framework.
South West Water's or regulators.
business plan has been assessed by Ofwat as enhanced and the Draft Determination for 2015-2020 has already been received.
This allows the company to begin to implement the strategy for K6 earlier than might otherwise be possible.
South West Water continues to contribute fully to consultations with all regulators and seeks to influence emerging changes through strong relationships with our stakeholders.
30 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Economic conditions Risk Mitigation Change Non-recovery of customer debt.
In addition to existing strategies, which are kept under review, South West Water continues to implement new initiatives to improve and secure cash collection through: use of third party collection agencies external trace data to track down previous occupiers continued use of property charging orders.
The company has also continued to fund and promote ways to help customers struggling to pay bills WaterCare, Restart, Fresh Start Fund which seek to reduce bad debt exposure.
South West Water is one of the few companies to have implemented a social tariff following the introduction of the WaterCare tariff from 2013 14.
During the year 1,100 customers have benefited from reducing bills to an amount they can better afford to pay.
The Government Payment reducing eligible household customer bills by 50 per year has also been effectively implemented and administered during the year.
In future changes to benefits and universal credits particularly the impact of the bedroom tax and limiting the total level of benefits available may further affect the ability of some customers to pay their bills.
Operating performance Risk Mitigation Change Extreme weather and climate Despite recent extreme weather, service to customers has change can place pressure on the been maintained and the business continues to be well companys water resources and placed to manage such situations.
Key mitigation is having networks.
detailed contingency plans, sufficient emergency resources and a capital programme that supports ongoing efforts to manage these risks.
In the longer term, the impact of climate change is being considered.
The company has plans in place and will adapt the way it conducts its business to respond effectively to the anticipated hotter, drier summers and wetter winters.
Poor service provided to customers.
The company has delivered further improvements in South West Water could incur a customer service resulting in its best ever SIM score and financial penalty under Ofwats South West Waters best ever score in the last quarter of Service Incentive Mechanism SIM 2013 14. for below average customer service While South West Water's performance continues to performance.
improve, a financial penalty would be incurred by the company under Ofwats SIM for a below average customer service performance.
Non-compliance or occurrence of There are rigorous health and safety policies and procedures avoidable health and safety incident.
in place across South West Water.
Senior management and Executive Director visits are undertaken during the year across a number of the company's sites and a behavioural safety programme launched in 2012 badged TAP has continued to be publicised.
co. uk 2014 31 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Strategic report - Group Principal risks and uncertainties Continued South West Water Operating performance continued Risk Mitigation Change The number of accidents reportable under RIDDOR Reporting for Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations for 2013 continued to fall with three 1 incidents reported in the year compared to seven in 2012.
South West Water continually reviews health and safety standards and makes improvements as necessary to best working practice.
Continuous training is being provided to ensure that appropriate health and safety working practices are embedded in the business, and the accident review panel continues to complete thorough investigations of root causes and ensure a consistent approach to RIDDOR management is adopted.
1 This does not include the tragic fatality of a waste water team member at a waste water site.
Significant operational failure or South West Water has established procedures and controls in place, as well as incident occurs contingency plans and incident management procedures.
This could include: contamination South West Water has a number of schemes in place to maintain water resources of water supplies, pollution events, such as pumped storage for certain reservoirs and promotes conservation water resource restrictions and measures and customer water efficiency measures.
South West Water also considers the longer term resource situation.
It prepares a new Water Resources Management Plan every five years and reviews it annually for a range of climate change and demand scenarios.
In recent years South West Water has worked in partnership with other representatives to identify a wide range of factors that can cause and exacerbate flooding events.
The company has identified targeted capital investments to reduce the risk to specific customers in key affected areas and, working alongside lead local flood authorities, other partner agencies, developers and environmental groups, is identifying best practice management of extreme rainfall and flooding.
Market Risk Mitigation Change Uncertainty arising from market As part of the risk management and business strategic planning processes, the reform.
company continues to evaluate developments and proposals for competition.
With the introduction of retail competition from 2017, South West Water is fully engaged in Defras Open Water project, which is managing the development of the central market.
South West Water is prepared for the development of retail competition for nonhousehold customers during the next regulatory period and has developed enhanced services which it offers to commercial customers through 'Source for Business'.
South West Water is participating in discussions for the design of Upstream reform.
32 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Viridor Law and regulation Risk Mitigation Change Changes in law, regulation or Viridor operates within regulatory EU and UK established decisions by governmental bodies or frameworks.
It engages at all levels and contributes fully to regulation.
any consultations on possible changes to the regulatory policy, legislation and framework.
Removal or modification of renewable Existing investments that qualify for renewable obligation energy incentives.
certificates are protected under the grandfathering procedure.
Economic conditions Risk Mitigation Change Reduced waste volumes to landfill Viridor regularly conducts detailed forward-looking market and in the overall market, due to the assessments.
It has a diversified strategy focused on long-term trend towards waste growing stable volumes in recycling and EfW where margins minimisation, recycling and energy per tonne are much higher than in landfill.
Viridor is exploring alternative uses for its landfill assets.
Operating performance Risk Mitigation Change Business interruption, particularly in Equipment failure is being managed by more sophisticated the growing EfW business, through planned preventative maintenance regimes with improved equipment failure, fire, power stocks and stores controls.
The risk from local disruption is alleviated by good public liaison and communications.
Police are consulted regarding campaign groups and the risk of cybercrime is being addressed as part of Project Enterprise see business systems risk.
Downward pressure on UK Viridor enters into forward sale contracts for a certain wholesale power prices.
proportion of electricity generated from landfill gas power generation.
To a certain extent downward pressure on power prices is naturally offset by usage across Viridor and the wider Group.
Non-compliance or occurrence of Viridor has rigorous compliance systems, health and safety avoidable health and safety incident.
policies and procedures in place.
Professionally qualified and highly experienced health and safety advisers are in place for every region, reporting to the Head of Compliance.
Continual training, toolbox talks and briefings focus on key topics.
Formal health and safety qualifications are required for line managers, senior managers and Directors.
Risk assessments are undertaken at every appropriate level.
Safe operating procedures are subject to audit and review.
co. uk 2014 33 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Strategic report - Group Principal risks and uncertainties Continued Viridor Capital investment Risk Mitigation Change Failure or increased costs of capital Increased skilled management resource including the establishment of oversight projects and or joint ventures not boards for each of the major projects has added additional rigour to their achieving predicted revenues or delivery.
Wherever possible back-to-back agreements with, and guarantees from, suppliers are entered into which provide a significant degree of protection.
Viridors experienced and dedicated project contract teams carry out detailed due diligence on all projects, suppliers, technologies and acquisitions prior to commencement.
There is also regular monthly reporting on performance on major contracts and post project appraisals are carried out, which all assist in being able to improve future performance.
Exposure to contractor failure to Extensive due diligence and significant protection of back-to-back contracts deliver construction progress, and or penalty clauses in contracts to deliver new technologies on time and on increasing costs and potentially budget.
requiring lengthy legal action or Viridor, through its Capital Projects and Engineering Director, proactively other redress.
It has enhanced its team, both from internal and external resources, to reflect the increased scale of its capital programme.
Competitive pressures Risk Mitigation Change Reduced customer base, Viridor provides recycling and waste management services which are locally increased competition affecting delivered services from locally managed facilities and a significant proportion of its prices or reduced demand for revenue is contracted over the medium or long-term.
In general terms Viridors services.
strategy is to establish a long-term sustainable competitive advantage in the business in which it operates: this is designed to protect long-term shareholder returns.
With regard to major competitive projects being pursued there are barriers to entry due to planning permissions being difficult to obtain and significant investment requirements.
Viridor believes there is competitive shake-out taking place among marginal competitors, which will in due course benefit Viridor.
Potential overcapacity in the UK Viridor has fully evaluated projected demand and competing capacity for each of EfW market could impact demand its planned facilities and is confident that they can be filled profitably.
As landfill tax for Viridors new plants.
reached 80 per tonne in April 2014, large-scale energy from waste facilities of the type Viridor is building will be one of the low-cost ways of disposing of residual waste.
Overcapacity in parts of Europe The costs of producing SRF and RDF to the required quality and of shipping it to could impact the UK EfW market.
Europe are broadly at the cost of landfill tax.
Disposal and generation of the UK waste could be converted into associated renewable energy in ERFs in the UK is generally lower cost and better solid recovered fuel SRF or refuse for the UK economy.
Despite the availability of export, Viridor is successfully derived fuel RDF and exported winning new contracts for its ERF plants.
Nevertheless amounts of SRF and RDF under EA licence for disposal in may continue to be exported especially if UK ERF capacity remains insufficient.
Business Systems Risk Mitigation Change Some of Viridors IT systems Project Enterprise, charged with developing a fully scalable Enterprise Resource require replacement, development Planning ERP type platform is now well advanced and involves external or upgrading to meet the growing consultancy as required, with a focus on best practice and minimising requirements of the business.
34 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Group Finance and funding Risk Mitigation Change The Group may be unable to raise The Company has robust treasury policies in place.
sufficient funds to finance its The Group had 1.3 billion of cash and facilities as at 31 activities or such funds may be only March 2014 including around 0.6 billion of new and available at higher cost.
refinanced facilities sourced during the year.
Policies include always having pre-funded at least one years estimated cash flow through cash and or committed facilities and ensuring no more than 20% of net borrowings mature in any one year.
In addition in respect of South West Water, the economic regulator has a statutory duty to ensure that it is able to finance its functions in the normal course of business.
The Group has to date obtained funding at lower effective average interest rates compared with many other companies in its sector and is well placed to meet the funding requirements of both South West Water and Viridor in the foreseeable future.
Pensions Risk Mitigation Change Pension costs may increase due to All defined benefit schemes apart from the Greater higher costs for future service and Manchester Waste PFI scheme have been closed to new growing deficits in relation to past entrants since April 2008. service in the defined benefit Employee and employer contributions are kept under review schemes.
and a formal actuarial valuation is being undertaken as at 31 March 2013.
Pension trustees keep investment policies under review and use professional investment advisers to seek to maximise investment returns at an appropriate level of risk.
Group and its subsidiaries, wherever they occur in this strategic Forward-looking statements report, are necessarily based on assumptions reflecting the This strategic report contains forward-looking statements views of Pennon Group and its subsidiary companies, as regarding the financial position: results of operations: cash appropriate.
flows: dividends: financing plans: business strategies: operating efficiencies: capital and other expenditures: competitive They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could positions: growth opportunities: plans and objectives of cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by management: and other matters.
These forward-looking the forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements including, without limitation, those relating to the statements should, therefore, be considered in the light of future business prospects, revenues, working capital, liquidity, relevant factors, including those set out in this section on capital needs, interest costs and income in relation to Pennon principal risks and uncertainties.
co. uk 2014 35 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements
