Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 25 What could affect our business Principal risks Risk Impact Mitigation The housebuilding industry is sensitive to changes We control the level of build on-site by closely managing our National in unemployment, interest rates and consumer work in progress levels.
We carry out extensive due diligence and regional confidence.
Any deterioration in economic conditions prior to our land investment decisions to capture best returns.
economic may significantly decrease demand and pricing for We monitor our geographical spread to mitigate the effects of conditions new homes, which could have a material effect on our local microeconomic fluctuations.
We monitor lead indicators business revenues, margins and profits and result in the onthe future direction of the UK housing market so as to impairment of asset values.
The General Election in 2015 manage our exposure to any future market disruption.
could affect Government policy and lead to changes in housing market conditions.
Any restrictions in the market availability of mortgages We monitor Bank of England commentary on credit conditions.
Mortgage forour customers could reduce demand for our homes We ensure that our investment in land and construction is availability and affect revenues, margins and profits.
appropriate for our level of sales and our expectations for market conditions.
We monitor the Council of Mortgage Lenders monthly reports and lenders announcements for trends in lending.
The health and safety of our employees, subcontractors, We ensure that the Boards health and safety strategy is Health and home owners and visitors to our construction sites implemented by our comprehensive management systems and safety is of paramount importance to us.
Accidents on controls, overseen by our Group Health and Safety Department our sites could lead to reputational damage and to minimise accidents on our sites.
Our business is subject to extensive and complex laws We operate comprehensive management systems to ensure Regulatory and regulations relating to planning and the environment.
We hold a landbank sufficient to provide compliance Our obligations to comply with legislation can result security of supply for short to medium term requirements and in delays causing us to incur substantial costs and engage extensively with planning stakeholders.
prohibit or restrict land development and construction.
Non compliance could also result in damage to the Groupsreputation.
Rapid expansion in UK housebuilding has driven an We closely monitor our build programmes enabling us to Resources increase in demand for both materials and skilled manage and react to any supply chain issues.
We operate labour and may cause costs to increase ahead of in-house apprentice and training programmes to support our ourexpectations.
need for increased skilled labour.
The Board has adopted its strategy as it believes it is The Groups strategy is agreed by the Board at an annual Strategy the one most likely to add the greatest sustainable value strategy meeting and thereafter regularly reviewed at Board for shareholders and stakeholders.
It is possible that, meetings and by the Executive Directors.
The Board engages with time, factors become known that indicate that with management and employees to ensure the strategy is the strategy currently being pursued is not the most communicated and understood and that all employees have effective or efficient and that alternative strategies may aclear understanding of the potential benefits and risks of bemoreappropriate.
