Petrofac 26 Annual report and accounts 2014 Principal risks Principal risks and uncertainties.
Principal risks are a risk or a combination of risks that, given the Companys current position, could seriously affect the performance, future prospects or reputation of the Company.
They include those risks that could threaten the business model, performance, solvency or liquidity, or prevent us from delivering our strategic objectives.
In terms of managing these risks, our systems of risk management and internal control are founded upon deployment of our Enterprise Risk Management Framework based upon ISO 31000:2009 : and our Internal Control Framework based upon the COSO 2013 model.
Details of which are included in the Board Risk Committee Report on pages 90 to 95.
Risk Mitigation and management Comments links Sovereign, country and financial market risks See the Group Chief Over-exposure to a single As we pursue our business strategy, we are achieving a more balanced geographic Executives strategic market risk and business model mix.
We are also working across the entire life cycle of our review pages 1114 The risk of over-concentration in customers assets from early development through to decommissioning.
fordetails on how we arediversifying our a particular market or geography.
When considering entry into new territories, or extending our activities in existing business model.
territories, operational plans are reviewed by the Group Risk Committee.
The Board Risk Committee regularly reviews the Groups overall concentration of risk.
We also take all reasonable measures to reduce and limit our commercial exposure in each territory.
This includes regular security risk assessments, careful selection of contracting parties, out-of-country arbitration, advance payments, and a disciplined approach to cash management.
See our Sovereign Counterparty risks We aim to minimise our cash ow exposure on contracts, especially where we and Financial Market The risk of financial or commercial deploy capital alongside our services as in certain IES contracts.
We will only Risk Policy available exposure if counterparties do so where we are comfortable with the level of counterparty risk and with the fromour website: www.
com such as key financial contractual terms and conditions.
governance institutions, customers, partners, We regularly monitor our exposure and ensure that our financial assets are downloads subcontractors or vendors spread across a number of creditworthy financial institutions and that limits default on their commitments.
Our Sovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy requires that material financial counterparty risk is only held with counterparties that are rated by Standard and Poors as A or better or the equivalent Moodys rating.
Financial Counterparty Risk is managed by Group Treasury and the Board Risk Committee has established specic limits for financial counterparties.
See note 32 to the Liquidity risk Given the need to finance our on-going operations and invest in future growth, financial statements.
The risk arising if we were we are exposed to certain liquidity risks.
We manage these risks by ensuring that not able to meet our we always maintain an adequate level of liquidity in the form of readily available financial commitments.
cash, short-term investments or committed credit facilities.
As the Group has grown, we have invested more of our surplus cash into strategic investments and other opportunities, assuming a greater spread of longer-term investments making the Company more capital intensive.
In 2014 we began a programme to reduce this exposure.
The Board Risk Committee has dened a minimum level of liquidity that must be maintained.
Additionally, the Board has set a target for the maximum level of leverage.
Cash ow forecasting is carried out across all service lines on a regular basis in order to identify any funding requirements well in advance.
Investment risks As the Groups strategy for growth moves into new geographies and Petrofac The risk that poor investment competes for larger, more integrated projects, the Board is required to sanction decisions could negatively impact more complex bids and investments, such as the JSD6000 vessel.
In doing so, our business model.
it assesses the level of project management discipline and executive capability necessary to support them, to satisfy itself that the right mix of risk, capability This includes investments in the and reward is established.
business itself and co-investment in our customers assets as is often the case with IES contracts.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 27 Annual report and accounts 2014 Risk Mitigation and management Comments links Sovereign, country and financial market risks continued Despite some Business disruption risks We face a range of political risks in a variety of territories, including the possibility continuing The risk of exposure to civil or of unforeseen regime change as well as legal or regulatory changes.
The Board unrest in the Middle political unrest, civil war, regime regularly monitors the changing political landscape, particularly in those countries East and North Africa during 2014, our change or sanctions that could regarded as unpredictable or core to our business.
activities suffered adversely affect our operations.
minimal disruption Security risk assessments are carried out in all high risk territories before entering see pages 5052 There is also a risk that IT security into new contracts.
Careful consideration is also given to project, investment for details.
failings could result in the loss and income exposures, and to the associated contract terms and conditions.
As well as facing external cyber-security threats, almost every business is increasingly dependent on the on-going capability and reliability of its IT platforms.
Across Petrofac we are alert to the related risks, and conscious of the need to be able to respond effectively to any far-reaching systems failure.
See note 32 to the Commodity or currency risks As detailed in the Market Outlook section pages 20 to 22 demand for services financial statements Volatility in oil and gas prices in 2014 was high and the Company built its biggest ever year-end backlog at for details of our oil could inuence the level of US$18.9billion: largely insulating the Company from the immediate effects of and gas derivative instruments and investment in the industry thefallinhydrocarbon prices.
foreign currency and, hence, the demand for exposures and how However, low prices and uncertainty in the forward oil price curve are having our services.
an impact on the level of investment, exploration, development and production significant movements in activity among International Oil Companies IOCs who are increasing their exchange rates could impact capital discipline.
This, in turn, could inuence the level of demand for our services in this sector, The financial performance of IES directly impacting returns from IES in 2015 and the longer-term prospects for is more susceptible to oil and ECOM.
In mitigation of this risk, we are maintaining strong client relationships gas price volatility due to Equity with National Oil Companies: diversifying operations by client and by geography: Upstream Investments.
increasing our activity in the oil and gas sub-sectors of maintenance, modications and operations MMO : and extending our offshore portfolio.
The majority of Group revenues are denominated in US dollars or currencies pegged to the US dollar.
In instances where we are procuring equipment or incurring costs in other currencies, we use forward currency contracts to hedge any related exposures.
Under our Sovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy we aim to hedge, on a rolling annual basis, the net profit exposure to hydrocarbon prices from 75% of our lowestimate of production.
However, we do not begin hedging until a development has achieved steady-state production.
Operational and contractual risks Under our operating Customer concentration risks The Board regularly monitors the total value of contracts by customer to ensure Framework for The risk of over-exposure to any that we are not overly dependent on any one relationship.
managing such risks, one customer and the impact we have a number In ECOM, our customer-base is already widely dis-aggregated and we are also of relevant policies, this could have if the relationship working towards a larger client portfolio for IES services.
Through our business including our were to be jeopardised.
strategy, we are progressively diversifying our business in terms of service lines, Operational and Contractual Risk locations and business models.
In addition, we have a formal programme of regular, senior level dialogue with our major customers to understand and pre-empt any concerns they may have.
Petrofac 28 Annual report and accounts 2014 Principal risks continued Risk Mitigation and management Comments links Operational and contractual risks continued See the Group Chief Competition risks As noted in the Market Outlook section on pages 20 to 22, the capital discipline Executives Foreword The risk of a significant change of IOCs continues to increase and we therefore expect the demand for our services pages 1114 for to the marketplace dynamics from this sector in 2015 to be challenging.
detailson how we arediversifying and the ways in which this could Our business strategy assumes that a high level of competition will continue but our business.
threaten our market position or our progressive diversication aims to continue our drive to increase the size of our our geographic footprint.
Bid-to-win ratios and segmental competition is regularly analysed to monitor this risk.
See page 51 for Environmental, asset integrity Our strong culture of health, safety and environmental awareness is central to our details of our and safety risks operational and business activities.
This culture is continually re-emphasised and is recorded incident The risk of experiencing a serious supported by our operating framework and its associated management processes performance as well as our related environmental, asset integrity and systems including our Asset Integrity Framework.
policies and or safety incident and the processes.
We also have a wide variety of controls embedded within the business commercial and reputational including: health, safety, security, environment and integrity assurance HSSEIA damage that could be caused.
processes, safety case management processes, major accident hazard risk assessments and audits, and regular monitoring of integrity management and maintenance schedules.
For all of our contracts, the respective management teams also review the commercial arrangements with clients, maintain emergency preparedness plans and review insurance coverage.
See our Operational Contractual We have a long history of successful project execution from bid submission and Contractual Risk performance risks through to project completion, which has demonstrated our rigorous approach Policy available The portfolio may sometimes to risk identication and mitigation.
com include a relatively small number The delivery of our portfolio in 2014 proved challenging and as a result, we have governance of very large contracts and downloads reinforced our delivery framework in OEC to include: operational excellence: the implications for our financial margin capture: cost reduction: design optimisation: changes to execution and performance if any of these subcontracting models: and reinforced our system of governance.
Within IES contracts were to be disrupted.
we have strengthened the engineering design Technical Authority: subsurface and operational Technical Authorities: increased our governance and assurance processes: and provided greater interdependence between technical, asset management and sub-surface teams.
We always seek to avoid liabilities that are unquantifiable or for which we could not reasonably be held responsible.
We also monitor the level of insurance provision and the extent to which we could bear the financial consequences of a major disruption.
Risk transfer arrangements We maintain a Group-wide insurance programme to mitigate against significant If we are unable to transfer losses.
The programme is consistent with general industry practice, and it also certain risks to the insurance incorporates a captive insurance vehicle for the management of low level market due to the availability or attritional losses.
cost of cover, for example, we Insurance premium costs are subject to changes based on various facts including could be exposed to material a particular companys loss experience: the overall loss experience of the insurance uninsured losses.
To mitigate these risks, we have worked with our insurance brokers, Aon, to continually optimise the insurance policies that we purchase in terms of their limits: deductibles: and specic policy terms and conditions.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 29 Annual report and accounts 2014 Risk Mitigation and management Comments links Operational and contractual risks continued See pages 5456 Organisation and Given our long-term growth expectations, it is necessary for Petrofac to attract and for details of people succession risks retain significant numbers of appropriately qualied employees.
We have therefore and resourcing The availability of sufciently developed a more systematic, Group-wide approach to talent management.
programmes and the related developments skilled, experienced and capable We regularly review our resourcing needs, and aim to identify and nurture the in 2014. personnel particularly at best people through talent and performance management programmes, linked senior levels is one of the most toeffective recruitment and succession planning.
significant challenges facing the We remain confident that our policies to attract, retain, train, promote and reward oil and gas industry.
our people are appropriate for the Group and will enable us to meet our strategic goals.
Ethical, social and regulatory risks See our Ethical, Major breaches of our Our Code of Conduct sets out the behaviours we expect of our employees and the Social and Code of Conduct third parties we work with including suppliers, contractors, agents and partners.
Regulatory Risk The risk that employees or We have a full programme of on-going activities to embed this Code of Conduct Policy available on our website: suppliers may fail to live up across the Group.
com to our high ethical standards We are also disciplined in monitoring and managing the social impacts of governance and the consequent impact downloads our operations, as set out in our Social Performance Standard.
This includes on our reputation.
supporting and investing in local communities affected by our operations.
We seek assurances that the third parties we employ comply with our Code of Conduct and the principles set out in our Ethical, Social and Regulatory Risk Policy, and our Social Performance Standard.
In addition, our external affairs risk reviews help to identify possible areas of exposure and ensure that we put appropriate controls in place.
See page 65 for Major regulatory breaches Our business is conducted in a growing range of territories, and is therefore subject details of our Code including bribery to a broad range of legislation and regulations.
The Group has an anti-corruption of Conduct and the and corruption compliance programme that seeks to manage related risks across all of our ways in which it is embedded across The potential financial and business activities.
reputational risk that would arise This programme recognises the requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010, if any of our employees or third See our Bribery and focuses on training, monitoring, risk management and due diligence.
and Corruption parties were to breach local or Standard available Our management takes a risk-based approach to due diligence activities.
on our website: In recent years, we have increased the level of due diligence for new contracts www.
com in higher-risk countries: and where appropriate, this includes the commissioning governance downloads of independent investigations.
We continue to emphasise our independently managed whistleblowing line, available to all employees as well as third parties and are fully committed to investigating any suspected breaches of our Code of Conduct.
