Managing risks The risks outlined below are those principal risks and uncertainties that are material to the Group.
They do not include all the risks associated with Group activities and are not set out in any order of priority.
How these risks are identified is described in the Corporate Governance section on pages 32 to 66.
Achieving Playtechs strategic objectives while minimising the key risks the business faces will deliver sustainable and long-term growth.
Area of risk Regulation licensing requirements Risk Mitigation The Group holds a number of licences for its activities from The Group has an established compliance function that regulators, principally for its activities as a software provider maintains relationships with regulators, monitors the including those issued by the Gambling Commission regulatory environment closely and ensures continuation of Great Britain and the Alderney Gambling Control of all necessary licences and permits that allow the Group Commission.
Loss of all or any of these licences may tocontinue its current business.
adversely impact on the revenues and or reputation of theGroup.
Regulation changing landscape Risk Mitigation The Group licences its products to operators in the online As an established regulated supplier to the online gambling gambling industry whose ability to operate in any jurisdiction industry, the Company is vigilant over legal and regulatory may be impacted by changes in regulations, or failure to issues that could apply to its activities not only in those obtain any necessary licences.
Laws and regulations relating jurisdictions where the Company is located, but also in to the supply of gambling services are complex, inconsistent the jurisdictions where its licensees are accepting bets and evolving and the Group may be subject to such laws and wagers from end users, using Playtechs software indirectly, insofar as it has assisted the supply to licensees and services.
Under the terms of its agreements with its who are themselves subject to such laws and so subject to licensees, the Group prohibits the acceptance of players enforcement risks.
Regulation local requirements Risk Mitigation The Group closely monitors developments in jurisdictions New licensing regimes may impose conditions, such as the requirement to locate significant technical infrastructure seeking to introduce new licensing regimes and seeks within the relevant territory or establish and maintain real-time to establish joint venture relationships, or other close data interfaces with the regulator that present operational contractual relationships, with key local operators with challenges, or may prohibit the ability of licensees to offer influence on the development of local regulation.
In addition, thefull range of the Groups products.
through the participation of the Group in industry bodies such as the Remote Gambling Association, Gaming Standards Association and Gambling Business Group, it seeks to influence the shape of new licensing regulations.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 Managing risks continued Taxation Risk Mitigation The Group benefits from favourable arrangements in some The Group works closely with its tax advisers to review its of the jurisdictions in which it is established.
Changes in tax position, undertake periodic tax audits and monitor any taxation legislation and rates may impact the Groups net changes in tax legislation.
Competitive landscape Risk Mitigation The gambling industry is extremely competitive and so is the The Group continues to invest significant resources related software and services industry that supports it.
Failure in research and development in order to enhance its to compete effectively may result in the loss of licensees and technology, products, content and services, and in making also the inability to attract new licensees.
acquisitions to broaden the range of technologies, products and services that it can offer to licensees.
Economic climate Risk Mitigation The vast majority of the Companys revenue is generated Playtechs licensees are geographically diverse, which should as a share of the revenue of its customers.
Any downturn mitigate reliance on any particular region.
Management in consumer discretionary spending could result in reduced closely monitors business performance and, if a downturn spend by consumers on gambling and the Groups revenues were to occur, remedial action commensurate with the would fall.
Macroeconomic factors such as licensing, nature and scale of the slow down could be taken.
regulatory, tax or other developments outside of Playtechs control could deter existing or potential licensees from using the Groups products in certain markets.
Cash management use of cash Risk Mitigation Playtech has significant cash balances, which may be used The Company has made a number of very successful, to acquire other businesses.
Such acquisitions may not value creating acquisitions and has an established process deliver the expected synergies and or benefits and may in place and experienced staff to conduct thorough due destroy shareholder value.
In addition, foreign exchange diligence before completing any transaction.
exposures could impact on the Groups financial position.
Cash management counterparty risk Risk Mitigation Playtech has significant cash balances and is therefore Playtech holds its cash and cash equivalents in a number of exposed to counterparty credit risks.
AAA rated banks and financial institutions to mitigate the risk of a default.
It also closely monitors foreign exchange fluctuations.
26 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Security Risk Mitigation The Group and its licensees are constantly vulnerable to The Group adopts industry-standard protections to detect hacking, Distributed Denial of Service DDoS attacks, any intrusion or other security breaches, together with malicious acts and cybercrime.
preventative measures safeguarding against sabotage, hacking, viruses and cybercrime.
The Group works continuously to improve the robustness and security of the Groups information technology systems.
In addition, the Group has put in place disaster recovery processes.
Intellectual property Risk Mitigation The Groups ability to compete effectively depends amongst The Group registers patents and trademarks, where this is other things, on its ability to protect, register and enforce, as possible and or commercially viable, to protect key aspects appropriate, its intellectual property rights.
In addition, proprietary and or confidential information, and intellectual property is protected through legal and physical security process and Playtech vigorously defends itself against third-party claims.
Key employees Risk Mitigation The Groups future success depends in large part on the The Group provides a stimulating professional environment continued service of a broad leadership team including and has a comprehensive performance evaluation system Executive Directors, senior managers and key personnel.
to identify key talent and to ensure that key personnel are The development and retention of these employees along appropriately rewarded and incentivised through a mixture of with the attraction and integration of new talent cannot salary, annual bonus and long-term incentives linked to the beguaranteed.
attainment of business objectives and revenue growth.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27
