Principal Risks and Uncertainties The responsibility for risk management across the Group resides with the Board.
The Board uses a risk framework which is designed to support the process for identifying, evaluating and managing both financial and non-financial risks.
There is an ongoing process in place for During the year the Audit Committee rather than eliminate, the risk of failure identifying, evaluating and managing the has reviewed reports covering the work to achieve business objectives and it must significant risks faced by the Group, which undertaken as part of the annual internal be recognised that it can only provide has operated throughout the year.
This has included assessment reasonable and not absolute assurance process involves regular assessment of the general control environment, against material misstatement or loss.
of the Groups risk register by the Audit identification of control weaknesses, Committee.
In line with best practice, the quantification of any associated risk The principal risks and corresponding register includes an assessment of the together with a review of the status of mitigation set out below represent the impact and likelihood of each risk together actions to mitigate these risks.
principal uncertainties that the Board with the controls in place to mitigate the risk.
believes may impact the Groups ability to The Audit Committee has also received deliver effectively its strategy in the future.
Internal audit work is undertaken by an reports from management in relation independent organisation who develop an to specific risk items together with reports annual internal audit plan having reviewed from external auditors, who consider the Groups risk register and following controls only to the extent necessary to discussions with external auditors, form an opinion as to the truth and fairness management and members of the of the financial statements.
of internal control is designed to manage, Risks Relating to the Group Risk Impact Mitigating Actions Adverse publicity Adverse publicity in relation to the It remains the Groups policy to ensure that employees operate within the in relation to the Group or its brands could have an boundaries of compliance in the areas of legislation, health and safety and ethical Group or its brands.
adverse impact on the Groups working standards and these are regularly reviewed by the Board and management reputation, consumer consumption committee.
The Group maintains and develops ISO9001 and 14001 systems which patterns, sales and operating profits.
are subject to annual external audits with any non-conformances actioned in a timely manner.
Within the Group there is a clearly defined and communicated Corporate Social Responsibility Policy.
Quality standards are well defined, implemented and measured.
The Group offers a range of branded products many of which are low calorie or sugar free.
Nutritional information is shown on all of our products and we have signed up to the U. K. Governments package labelling arrangements.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
