Principal Risks and Uncertainties The responsibility for risk management across the Group resides with the Board.
The Board uses a risk framework which is designed to support the process for identifying, evaluating and managing both financial and non-financial risks.
There is an ongoing process in place for During the year the Audit Committee rather than eliminate, the risk of failure identifying, evaluating and managing the has reviewed reports covering the work to achieve business objectives and it must significant risks faced by the Group, which undertaken as part of the annual internal be recognised that it can only provide has operated throughout the year.
This has included assessment reasonable and not absolute assurance process involves regular assessment of the general control environment, against material misstatement or loss.
of the Groups risk register by the Audit identification of control weaknesses, Committee.
In line with best practice, the quantification of any associated risk The principal risks and corresponding register includes an assessment of the together with a review of the status of mitigation set out below represent the impact and likelihood of each risk together actions to mitigate these risks.
principal uncertainties that the Board with the controls in place to mitigate the risk.
believes may impact the Groups ability to The Audit Committee has also received deliver effectively its strategy in the future.
Internal audit work is undertaken by an reports from management in relation independent organisation who develop an to specific risk items together with reports annual internal audit plan having reviewed from external auditors, who consider the Groups risk register and following controls only to the extent necessary to discussions with external auditors, form an opinion as to the truth and fairness management and members of the of the financial statements.
of internal control is designed to manage, Risks Relating to the Group Risk Impact Mitigating Actions Adverse publicity Adverse publicity in relation to the It remains the Groups policy to ensure that employees operate within the in relation to the Group or its brands could have an boundaries of compliance in the areas of legislation, health and safety and ethical Group or its brands.
adverse impact on the Groups working standards and these are regularly reviewed by the Board and management reputation, consumer consumption committee.
The Group maintains and develops ISO9001 and 14001 systems which patterns, sales and operating profits.
are subject to annual external audits with any non-conformances actioned in a timely manner.
Within the Group there is a clearly defined and communicated Corporate Social Responsibility Policy.
Quality standards are well defined, implemented and measured.
The Group offers a range of branded products many of which are low calorie or sugar free.
Nutritional information is shown on all of our products and we have signed up to the U. K. Governments package labelling arrangements.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Risk Impact Mitigating Actions Failure or The Group would be affected if there Assets within the Group are proactively managed whether this be intangible brand unavailability of the was a catastrophic failure of its major assets, plant and equipment, people or IT systems.
Robust disaster recovery and Groups operational production or distribution facilities incident management plans exist and are formally tested.
which led to a sustained loss in are in place and are regularly tested.
Failure of the The maintenance and development of IT assets within the Group are proactively managed and procedures exist Groups Information Information Technology systems may that support rapid and clean recovery.
Robust disaster recovery and incident Technology systems.
result in systems failures, including management plans exist and are formally tested.
Contingency measures are cyber security breaches which may in place and are regularly tested.
adversely impact the Groups ability to operate.
Inability to protect the Failure to maintain the Groups The Group invests considerable effort in proactively protecting the intellectual intellectual property intellectual property rights could property rights associated with its current and future brands, through rights associated result in the value of our brands trademark registration and vigorous legal enforcement as and when required.
with current and being eroded.
Interruption to, or significant The packaging and raw material The Group adopts centralised purchasing arrangements to ensure the best possible change in the terms of, the components that the Group uses for the terms are negotiated.
Groups supply of packaging production of its soft drink products are and raw materials.
largely commodities that are subject Contingency measures exist and are tested regularly.
to price and supply volatility that could have an adverse impact on the Groups Supplier performance is reviewed on a monthly basis and audits are undertaken sales and operating profits.
Overall commodity risks are reviewed and managed by the purchasing and operations teams and reviewed by the Treasury Committee whose remit and authority levels are set by the Board.
Together with the operations team, the Treasury Committees remit focuses on the unpredictability of the cost of supply and seeks to minimise potential related adverse effects on the Groups financial performance through either forward purchasing or hedging known commodity requirements.
The Groups activities expose it to a Our underlying objective is to secure budgeted exchange rates and thereby reduce variety of financial risks which include the volatility through our cost of goods.
market risk including medium term movements in exchange rates, interest Financial risks are reviewed and managed by the Treasury Committee whose remit rate risk and commodity price risk, and authority levels are set by the Board.
credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Treasury Committee seeks to minimise adverse effects on the Groups financial In the poor economic climate the risk performance through hedging known currency exposures whilst reviewing the of customer insolvency is increased.
appropriateness of the interest rate hedging policy throughout the year.
The Groups finance team reviews cash flow forecasts throughout the year, with headroom against banking covenants assessed regularly.
The finance team uses external tools to assess credit limits offered to customers, manages trade receivable balances vigilantly and takes prompt action on overdue accounts.
The Groups financial control environment is subject to review by both internal and external audit.
Internal audits focus is to work with and challenge management to ensure an appropriate control environment is maintained.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Continued Risk Impact Mitigating Actions Change programmes A number of change programmes Appropriate governance structures are put in place to provide the required may not deliver the designed to improve the effectiveness frameworks to supervise, monitor, control, direct and manage change programmes.
and efficiency of the end to end operating, administrative and financial These structures review the scope of change programmes and related project systems and processes continue to be plans and project resources, monitoring progress against set deliverables.
There is a risk that these External support is utilised when the Group is unable to support the project programmes will not fully deliver the solely from internal resources.
expected operational benefits within the timescales expected.
There is also the risk that the change programmes lead to disruption to production, administrative and financial processes and could impact customer service and or operating margins.
Increasing funding needs or The triennial valuation of the Groups The Groups finance team works closely with the Pension Scheme Investment Sub obligations in respect of defined benefit pension scheme may Committee and the Pension Trustees to ensure that an appropriate Investment the Groups pension highlight a worsening funding position Strategy is in place to fund future pension requirements at acceptable levels of risk.
that requires the Group to invest additional cash contributions or provide further assurance to cover future liabilities.
Acquisition strategy fails Failure to deliver expected return A robust initial evaluation and diligence process exists which clearly outlines to deliver expected returns could affect overall performance, net expectations relative to agreed rates of return and clearly identifies deliverables.
via either market performance debt level, share price, management Sensitivity analysis of the key value drivers is also undertaken.
or under attainment credibility and or shareholder appetite of targeted synergies.
A dedicated integration and project management team is established pre-completion and a 100 day plan established against which progress is actively monitored.
Finally, a six monthly review of performance relative to the acquisition model is undertaken.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
