Risks Relating to the Market Risk Impact Mitigating Actions Failure to take account A decline in sales of key brands or a The Group offers a range of brands that it manufactures and distributes through a of changing market dynamics.
failure to renew trading agreements on cross section of trade channels and retailers.
Performance is monitored closely by favourable terms or reduction in the the Board and management committee.
This includes monitoring and tracking of customer base could have an adverse metrics which review brand equity strength, together with monitoring of financial impact on the Groups sales and and operational performance.
The Group focuses heavily on delivering high quality products and invests heavily in building brand equity.
Regular contact is maintained with all of the Groups major customers through regular sales force interaction and members of the senior management team meet with key customers throughout the year.
Changes in consumer Consumers may decide to purchase The Group offers a range of branded products across a range of flavours, preferences, perception and consume alternative brands or subcategories and geographies which offer choice to the end consumer.
spend less on soft drinks.
Changing consumer preferences are reviewed annually by the Board with reference to qualitative and quantitative research.
Spontaneous and prompted brand awareness levels are monitored in order to measure any changes in consumer knowledge of brands and or changes in brand equity strength.
Changes in regulatory Changing legislation may impact our The Group proactively engages with the relevant authorities, including the British requirements.
ability to market or sell certain products Soft Drinks Association, The Food Standards Agency and the General Counsel of or could cause the Group to incur Scotland to ensure full participation in the future development of and compliance additional costs or liabilities that with relevant legislation.
could adversely affect its business.
It remains the Groups policy to ensure that employees are aware of their responsibilities and all applicable regulatory requirements.
Formal training sessions are undertaken throughout the year.
An audit against changing legislative requirements is undertaken annually by the in house legal team.
Potential impact of Changes to legislation may vary The impact of changes to the taxation legislation is reviewed regularly.
the taxation levels associated with the sale or consumption of soft The Group will seek to remain commercially competitive by passing on any resulting drinks which could impact sales cost differential through price amendments to customers.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 Corporate responsibility is about doing business in the right way.
Andrew Memmott, Supply Chain Director A. G. BARR p. l. c. 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
