22 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements COMPANY RISK FACTORS PREMIERS BUSINESS MAY BE IMPACTED BY VARIOUS RISKS LEADING TO FAILURE TO ACHIEVE STRATEGIC TARGETS FOR GROWTH, LOSS OF FINANCIAL STANDING, CASH FLOW AND EARNINGS, AND REPUTATION.
NOT ALL OF THESE RISKS ARE WHOLLY WITHIN THE COMPANYS CONTROL AND THE COMPANY MAY BE AFFECTED BY RISKS WHICH ARE NOT YET MANIFEST OR REASONABLY FORESEEABLE.
Effective risk management is critical to achieving our strategic objectives and protecting our personnel, assets, the communities where we operate and with whom we interact and our reputation.
Premier therefore has a comprehensive approach to risk management as set out in more detail in the Corporate Governance Report.
A critical part of the risk management process is to assess the impact and likelihood of risks occurring so that appropriate mitigation plans can be developed and implemented.
Risk severity matrices are developed across Premiers business to facilitate assessment of risk.
The specific risks identified by project and asset teams, business units and corporate functions are consolidated and amalgamated to provide an oversight of key risk factors at each level from operations through business unit management to Executive Committee and Board level.
For all the known risks facing the business, Premier attempts to minimise the likelihood and mitigate the impact.
According to the nature of the risk, Premier may elect to take or tolerate risk, treat risk with controls and mitigating actions, transfer risk to third parties or terminate risk by ceasing particular activities or operations.
Premier has a zero tolerance to financial fraud or ethics non-compliance, and ensures that health, safety, environment and security HSES risks are managed to levels that are as low as reasonably practicable, whilst managing exploration and development risks on a portfolio basis.
SIGNIFICANT RISK FACTORS DURING 2014 Oil price weakness at year-end weak share price and North Sea impairments : Project delivery challenges schedule and cost : Negative market sentiment.
SIGNIFICANT RISK FACTORS FOR 2015 Continued oil price weakness Cash flow and ability to fund existing and planned projects, thereby deliver business strategy Ability to maintain core competencies Political and security instability in countries of current and planned activity Alignment with JV partners in particular their ability to fulfil commitments Negative market sentiment Potentially accelerated decommissioning liabilities Reputational impact if we defer projects Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 23 Key risk factor Risk detail How is it managed?
Key steps to mitigate in 2014 15 Health, safety, Major process safety incident Comprehensive HSES and Improved reporting and environment and or operational accident, operations management response through security HSES natural disasters, pandemics, systems including emergency implementation across the social unrest, civil war.
response and oil spill group of new electronic response capability and incidentrecording and Consequences may include asset integrity.
accidents resulting in loss of life, injury and or significant Active security monitoring Improved asset integrity pollution of the local and management and maintenance through environment, destruction regular testing of business implementation of new of facilities and disruption continuity plans.
scorecard methodology to business activities.
covering people, plant and Learning from company and process lead indicators at all third-party incidents.
Production and Uncertain geology and Geoscience and reservoir Improved production development reservoir performance engineering management forecasting, enhanced delivery leading to lower production systems, including rigorous reporting and monitoring and reserves recovery.
production forecasting through in-house Of particular and independent reserves development and significance Availability of services during 2014 auditing processes.
introduction of near-real-time including FPSOs and rigs, Solan, production analytics platform.
availability of technology Operations, development Huntington and engineering capacity, and project execution Improved project planning and into 2015 availability of skilled resources, management systems and and delivery through better maintaining project schedules cost controls together with co-ordination and execution and costs as well as fiscal, capable project teams.
of cross-functional review regulatory, political and prior to decision gates.
Long-term development other conditions leading planning to ensure timely Independent lessons to operational problems access to FPSOs, rigs and learned review of Solan and production loss or other essential services.
project planned for development delay.
Consequences may include, Increased ExCo engagement lower production, lower on contractor selection recovery of reserves, management.
production delays, cost overruns and or failure to fulfil contractual commitments.
Exploration Failure to identify and capture Strong portfolio management Re-organised Exploration success and acreage and resource and alignment with strategic team to improve delivery reserves addition opportunities to provide growth targets.
Appropriate from existing portfolio and a portfolio of drillable balance between growth by new ventures.
exploration prospects and exploration and acquisition.
Corporate Exploration team sufficient development Exploration management strengthened to ensure projects to achieve reserves systems including greater focus on prospective addition targets.
comprehensive peer review resource and risk assessment Specific exploration with focus on geologies with associated enhancement programmes may fail to add in core areas we know well of Exploration management reserves and hence value.
and in which we can build system content.
Failure to negotiate access a competitive advantage.
Near-field exploration moved rights or close transactions M&A effort focusing on to business unit management could slow growth of geographical and technical but with Exploration function reserves and production areas aligned with our endorsement retained.
and lead to loss of strategy.
Diligence in Majority of low-impact, competitive advantage.
acquisition process and high-risk North Sea postacquisition integration opportunities removed to ensure targeted returns.
24 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements Key risk factor Risk detail How is it managed?
Key steps to mitigate in 2014 15 Host government Premier operates in some Premiers portfolio includes Improved provision of political and countries where political, operations in both low and politico-economic security fiscal risks economic and social transition higher risk environments.
societal risk assessment is taking place or there are Premier actively monitors informing investment current sovereignty disputes.
the local situation and has decisions.
Developments in politics, laws business continuity plans Strengthened Corporate and regulations can affect our in each area which can be Responsibility management operations and earnings.
activated depending on system and improved predefined levels of alert.
Consequences may include Corporate Responsibility forced divestment of assets: Premier strives to be a good reporting.
limits on production or cost corporate citizen globally, and Assessing cost benefit recovery: import and export fosters reputation by strong of political risk insurance.
restrictions: international and positive relationships with conflicts, including war, civil government and communities unrest and local security where we do business.
Premier concerns that threaten the engages in respectful industrysafe operation of company wide lobby and sustainable facilities: price controls, tax corporate responsibility increases and other retroactive and community investment tax claims: expropriation of programmes.
Rigorous property: cancellation of adherence to Premiers contract rights: and increase business ethics policy and in regulatory burden.
difficult to predict the timing or Continuous monitoring of severity of these occurrences the external environment for or their potential impact.
emerging risks to the business.
Commodity price Oil and gas prices are affected Oil and gas price hedging Hedging programme volatility by global supply and demand programmes to underpin continued into 2015. and price can be subject to our financial strength and Economics of development Of particular significant fluctuations.
Factors to protect our capacity to programmes re-worked significance that influence these include fund our future developments to reflect low oil price in late 2014 operational issues, natural and operations.
and into 2015 disasters, weather, political Premier investment Discretionary spend curtailed.
instability, or conflicts and guidelines ensure that our Contingency planning economic conditions or development programmes for accelerated actions by major oil-exporting are robust to downside decommissioning of countries.
Price fluctuations sensitivity price scenarios.
can affect our business assumptions and can effect investment decisions and financial capability.
Organisational Risk that the capability of the Premier has created a Continuous improvement capability organisation is not adequate competitive remuneration of human resources to deliver plans for strategic and retention package management systems growth.
The capability of the including bonus and and controls.
organisation is a function of long-term incentive plans to Review of long-term both the strength of its incentivise loyalty and good incentive package.
human resources and its performance from the existing, Phased function roll-out of business management highly skilled workforce.
Inadequate systems Premier is continuing to system commenced.
or lack of compliance may strengthen its organisational lead to loss of value and capability to achieve strategic failure to achieve growth objectives.
Loss of personnel to resource planning, competency competitors, inability to attract development, training and and retain quality human development programmes, resources and competency succession planning including gaps could affect our leadership development.
operational performance and Continuous strengthening of delivery of growth strategy.
business management systems and controls as appropriate to the size and market position of the company.
COMPANY RISK FACTORS continued Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 25 Key risk factor Risk detail How is it managed?
Key steps to mitigate in 2014 15 Joint venture Global operations in the Due diligence and continuous Heightened engagement partner alignment oil and gas industry are and regular engagement with joint venture partners conducted in a joint venture with partners in joint with regard to their ability environment.
There is a risk ventures in both operated to fulfil commitments.
that joint venture partners and non-operated projects.
Implementation of new are not aligned in their Premier takes strategic non-operated ventures objectives and drivers and acquisition opportunities management system.
this may lead to inefficiencies where appropriate to gain a and or delays.
Several of our greater degree of influence major projects are operated and control.
by our joint venture partners and our ability to influence our partners is sometimes limited due to our small interest in such ventures.
Financial Risk that sufficient funds Strong financial discipline Economics of investment discipline and are not available to finance and balance sheet.
Premier decisions and development Governance the business.
Risk of has an established financial projects re-worked to reflect financial fraud.
management system to low oil price environment.
Of particular ensure that it is able to significance Deferred discretionary maintain an appropriate level in late 2014 exploration spend.
of liquidity and financial into 2015 Contingency planning if capacity and to manage development projects the level of assessed risk deferred Vette, Sea Lion.
associated with the financial instruments.
Premier Reduction of contractor spend.
maintains access to capital Contingency planning markets through the cycle.
for right-sizing and The management system re-structuring of group includes policies and a to deliver business goals.
delegation of authority Careful management of manual to reasonably protect against risk of financial fraud covenant headroom on in the group.
An insurance programme is put in place to reduce the potential impact of the physical risks associated with exploration and production activities.
In addition, business interruption cover is purchased for a proportion of the cash flow from producing fields.
Cash balances are invested in short-term deposits with minimum A credit rating banks, AAA managed liquidity funds and A1 P1 commercial paper, subject to Board approved limits.
26 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements IN NOVEMBER, PREMIER OPTED TO PROGRESS A SMALLER, SCALED-BACK SEA LION DEVELOPMENT SCHEME IN ORDER TO REDUCE THE CAPEX REQUIRED PRIOR TO FIRST CASH FLOWS FROM THE FIELD.
THE INITIAL PHASE OF DEVELOPMENT AIMS TO RECOVER 160 MMBBLS OF OIL FROM THE NORTH EAST PART OF THE FIELD FOR LESS THAN US$2 BILLION OF PRE-FIRST OIL CAPEX.
FINAL PREPARATIONS FOR THE FOUR WELL EXPLORATION CAMPAIGN ARE UNDER WAY WITH THE FIRST WELL, ZEBEDEE, EXPECTED TO SPUD IN EARLY MARCH.
THE OUTCOME OF THIS CAMPAIGN, WHICH HAS THE POTENTIAL TO MORE THAN DOUBLE THE DISCOVERED RESOURCE IN THE NORTH FALKLANDS BASIN, WILL DETERMINE THE SHAPE OF SUBSEQUENT DEVELOPMENT PHASES IN THE AREA.
Highlights and achievements Sea Lion development re-sized with an estimated capex of less than US$2 billion to first oil Carry arrangement renegotiated with Rockhopper Rig contract and rig sharing agreement for exploration campaign signed THE FALKLAND ISLANDS BUSINESS UNIT REVIEWS Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 27 DEVELOPMENT Good progress was made in planning the Sea Lion development scheme utilising a Tension Leg Platform TLP during 2014.
However, the oil price environment and Premiers commitment to maintaining a strong financial position caused the group to re-examine the scheme with a view to reducing capex.
As a result, in November, Premier opted to progress a smaller initial development of just the north east part of the Sea Lion field with a single subsea drill centre, utilising a leased FPSO.
It is anticipated that this smaller scheme will recover around 160 mmbbls of oil over 15 years from 14 wells.
Total capital expenditure prior to first oil was expected to be less than US$2 billion in November when first estimated.
Premier plans to take advantage of weaker market conditions in the second half of 2015 to capture lower costs for the project.
Work has commenced on assessing the FPSO design options for the first phase of the development.
The existing TLP topsides design and equipment lists are being modified for use with a smaller capacity FPSO and the conclusions of various metocean studies are being fed into the FPSO design process.
A project sanction for the first phase of development is targeted for the first half of 2016, although the exact timing of this will ultimately depend upon the contracting strategy employed for the FPSO.
Sanction of the project will depend on the cost reductions that are achieved and the oil price outlook at that time.
Rockhopper will fund their share of the pre-sanction costs and a letter of agreement has been concluded such that the remaining development carry will be split equally between the initial development and the next phase US$337 million to each.
A guarantee fee mechanism which applies to capex guarantees given by Premier in respect of the development has been extended to include the FPSO lease.
While it is likely that Premier would be able to fund a project of this size from existing facilities and cash flows, the company will continue to seek a partner for the Sea Lion development.
Plans for subsequent phases of development, which could involve either further FPSOs or a TLP, will target a further 235 mmbbls of existing discovered resources plus any new discoveries arising from the 2015 exploration programme.
28 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements EXPLORATION Preparations for the multi-operator exploration drilling campaign, due to commence in the first quarter of 2015, are well under way.
In June a rig contract and a rig sharing agreement were signed and all major service contracts have now been awarded.
A temporary dock facility located in Stanley Harbour has been built and has received the first two coasters of supplies for the upcoming programme.
The rig departed West Africa at the end of January and is expected to arrive in the Falkland Islands by the end of February.
The exploration drilling programme will consist of at least four wells targeting multiple stacked fans in Licences PL004 and PL032.
The sequence of the wells is expected to be Zebedee, Isobel Deep, Jayne East and Chatham West Sea Lion.
The rig will drill for another operator between the Isobel Deep and Jayne East wells.
Outlook Engage with supply chain to reduce further Sea Lion project costs Targeting option to sanction the Sea Lion project in first half 2016 Material four well exploration campaign to commence in March 2015 with the spudding of the Zebedee well BUSINESS UNIT REVIEWS continued 29 INDONESIA 2014 SAW STRONG PRODUCTION AND CASH FLOWS FROM PREMIERS OPERATED NATUNA SEA BLOCK A, WHICH INCREASED ITS MARKET SHARE OF THE GSA1 CONTRACT AND ACHIEVED RECORD PRODUCTION RATES.
DELIVERABILITY FROM NATUNA SEA BLOCK A WAS FURTHER ENHANCED WITH FIRST GAS FROM THE NAGA FIELD IN NOVEMBER.
PREMIER ALSO ENJOYED EXPLORATION SUCCESS IN INDONESIA WITH A SIGNIFICANT OIL AND LIQUIDS-RICH GAS DISCOVERY ON THE OPERATED TUNA BLOCK FURTHER STRENGTHENING THE PORTFOLIO AND PROVIDING THE GROUP WITH FUTURE GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES.
Highlights and achievements Natuna Sea Block A captured 45 per cent of Gas Sales Agreement GSA 1, significantly above contractual share Naga on-stream in November Gas sales from Natuna Sea Block A to the domestic market commenced Significant discovery of 100 mmboe on the Tuna Block Record cash flow 30 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements PRODUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT Net production from Indonesia in 2014 on a working interest basis was 14.4 kboepd 2013: 13.7 kboepd, up 5 per cent on the prior year.
This was driven by a strong operational performance from the Anoa field on the Premier-operated Natuna Sea Block A, our key asset in Indonesia.
The Anoa field delivered 141 billion British thermal units per day BBtud during 2014, capturing 44.6 per cent 2013: 39.9 per cent of GSA1 deliveries into Singapore, against a contractual share of 39.4 per cent.
Natuna Sea Block As contractual share for 2015 has been increased to 39.9 per cent.
Gross liquids production from the Anoa field averaged 1.5 kbopd 2013: 1.7 kbopd.
Sales from the Gajah Baru field to Singapore under GSA2 averaged 79 BBtud 2013: 82 BBtud.
In addition, gas sales of up to 40 BBtud from the Gajah Baru field to the Indonesian market commenced under a Domestic Swap Agreement DSA in July.
Gas delivered under the DSA replaces gas previously contracted to Batam Island, Indonesia, from the Natuna Sea Block A under GSA3 and GSA4.
DSA deliveries are expected to continue until the domestic pipelines are constructed and the GSA3 and GSA4 contracts commence.
In total, 242 BBtud gross 2013: 208 BBtud was sold from Natuna Sea Block A during 2014 with record peak production rates of 391 BBtud achieved.
High deliverability from Premiers Anoa and Gajah Baru fields gives Premier the flexibility to meet peak customer demand and to capitalise upon other suppliers maintenance and unplanned downtime.
Looking to 2015, Premier plans to continue to optimise its production from Natuna Sea Block A and to renegotiate supplier contracts to take advantage of the expected price reductions in oil field services in order to maintain its competitive low operating cost base.
Good progress was made during 2014 on our new Natuna Sea Block A developments, Naga and Pelikan.
Following the successful completion of the offshore installation in 2013, hook up and commissioning of the Pelikan and Naga well head platforms was completed in April 2014.
The Hakuryu rig commenced development drilling at the Naga field in July with first gas achieved on budget in November.
The three development wells at the Pelikan field were completed in early 2015 and the field is expected on-stream at the end of the first quarter.
Natuna Sea Block As deliverability continues to exceed its contractual commitments.
As a result, Premier is well placed to increase its market share should its partners not meet their contractual commitments under GSA1 as well as to increase its supply of gas into Singapore should demand strengthen.
Elsewhere on Natuna Sea Block A, it is anticipated that the 2012 Anoa Deep gas discovery well will be tied-in to the Anoa production facilities in 2015 to support GSA1 deliveries.
Premier is also progressing FEED for the Bison and Iguana projects as single well subsea tie-backs to Pelikan while concept select for the Gajah Puteri field is under way.
Premier successfully divested its 41.67 per cent non-operated interest in Block A Aceh onshore Indonesia for US$40 million in 2014.
Government approvals for the sale were received at the end of 2014 with completion achieved in January 2015. BUSINESS UNIT REVIEWS continued 31 EXPLORATION AND APPRAISAL Premier drilled three exploration wells in Indonesia during 2014: the Kuda Laut-1 and Singa Laut-1 wells on the Premier-operated Tuna Block and the Ratu Gajah-1 well on the Premier-operated Natuna Sea Block A.
The Kuda Laut-1 well, which targeted Miocene sands within a four-way dip closed structure, and the Singa Laut-1 side-track, which targeted the Oligocene sequence in the adjoining three-way dip closure, discovered 100 mmboe.
Gas gradients have been measured and liquids-rich gas samples were recovered suggesting that the discovery has a high natural liquid content.
Planning for a 2016 appraisal campaign is now under way.
Premier has 65 per cent equity in the block and will assess the appropriate working interest level to hold as appraisal advances.
Premier also drilled the Ratu Gajah-1 well on Natuna Sea Block A during 2014.
While the well flowed gas to surface during testing, less sandstone reservoir than expected was encountered and the discovery is sub-commercial.
The results of this well, however, have been integrated into the groups broader understanding of the Lama play and thicker sands have been identified at the basin margin.
The next well in our portfolio to test the Lama play will be the appraisal of the Anoa Deep discovery, which is scheduled for the second quarter of 2015.
Outlook Premiers contractual share of GSA1 increased to 39.9 per cent, underpinning long-term cash flows Pelikan due on-stream in 2015: portfolio of growth options Anoa Deep appraisal well to be drilled in 2015 32 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements FOLLOWING CONCEPT SELECT IN FEBRUARY, PREMIER SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETED FEED ON THE VETTE DEVELOPMENT AND PROGRESSED THE PROJECT TO THE POINT OF SANCTION.
HOWEVER, PREMIER HAS AGREED WITH THE NORWEGIAN PETROLEUM DIRECTORATE TO DEFER THE SUBMISSION OF THE PLAN FOR DEVELOPMENT AND OPERATION PDO TO ENABLE PREMIER TO RE-ENGAGE WITH THE SUPPLY CHAIN TO CAPTURE LOWER COSTS.
PREMIER SUCCESSFULLY CONCLUDED THE SALE OF ITS INTEREST IN LUNO II IN 2014 WHILE PREPARATIONS FOR OUR FIRST TEST OF THE EMERGING MANDAL HIGH PLAY ARE WELL ADVANCED WITH THE MYRHAUK WELL EXPECTED TO SPUD MID-2015.
Highlights and achievements FEED on the Vette project completed Sale of Luno II discovery successfully concluded Successful licence application in the APA 2014 Licensing Round NORWAY BUSINESS UNIT REVIEWS continued Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 33 DEVELOPMENT Premier acquired operatorship of the Vette development in 2013.
Since then, significant progress has been made in commercialising the field and, at the end of 2014, Premier booked the reserves for the development.
The development will focus on recovering 45 mmbbls of reserves from the field using four producers and two injectors tied-back to a FPSO.
The Mackerel discovery in the adjacent PL406 licence will be incorporated into a possible second phase of development.
FEED engineering work and supply chain engagement on the development concept for Vette was completed and the project was brought to sanction decision by the end of 2014.
As part of that process, Premier also continued with the development of its organisation in Norway in preparation for development operator status and successfully completed a number of audits undertaken by the Petroleum Safety Authority.
In light of the sharp fall in the oil price in the second half of 2014, Premier agreed with the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate to defer the submission of the PDO by a year.
Premier will use the intervening period to re-engage with the supply chain to negotiate better rates which are more reflective of the current climate.
MANDAL HIGH 34 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements Assuming that appropriate cost savings are achieved, Premier will consider making a final investment decision at the end of 2015 targeting first oil in 2019.
Work continued during 2014 on the non-operated Fry field to identify a viable development concept.
Following acquisition and interpretation of new seismic data, a reassessment of subsurface resources was completed in 2014 and screening of development concepts is under way, including both standalone options as well as a tie-back solution to nearby infrastructure.
EXPLORATION Premier continued to high grade its Norwegian exploration portfolio during 2014.
This included the profitable sale of the groups non-operated interest in PL359, which included the Luno II discovery, to Lundin Petroleum for a consideration of US$17.5 million.
In addition, following technical evaluations, Premier relinquished a number of its exploration licences in Norway.
Premiers immediate exploration focus in Norway is on the Myrhauk well which is expected to spud mid-2015 and will be the companys first test of the emerging Mandal High play.
Premier has built an extensive acreage position over the Mandal High, both organically and through acquisition, and has identified significant follow-on potential to the Myrhauk well in the success case.
Premier was successful in the APA 2014 Licensing Round with the award of a 20 per cent non-operated interest in PL782s which is located in the Norwegian North Sea and will be operated by ConocoPhillips.
There are no firm well commitments with the award.
Outlook Re-engage with the supply chain during 2015 to capture lower costs for the Vette project Final investment decision of Vette targeted for end 2015, depending on cost savings achieved The potentially play opening Myrhauk exploration well to be drilled in 2015 BUSINESS UNIT REVIEWS continued 35 PAKISTAN 2014 SAW ANOTHER STRONG PERFORMANCE FROM PREMIERS PAKISTAN BUSINESS UNIT.
PRODUCTION FROM OUR SIX NON-OPERATED ONSHORE PAKISTAN GAS FIELDS EXCEEDED EXPECTATIONS AND EXPLORATION SUCCESS WAS ACHIEVED WITH THE KADANWARI K-36 WELL.
Highlights and achievements Average production of 12.4 kboepd with 96 per cent uptime achieved New development wells tied-in to production Exploration success with the K-36 exploration well PRODUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT Average production in Pakistan during 2014 was 12.4 kboepd net to Premier, around 16 per cent lower than in 2013 14.9 kboepd.
This reflects natural decline in the Bhit, Qadirpur and Zamzama gas fields only partially offset by higher production from the Kadanwari and Badhra fields.
The Kadanwari gas field, in which Premier has a 15.8 per cent non-operated interest, performed strongly in 2014 and delivered production of 3.2 kboepd net to Premier 2013: 2.9 kboepd, a new record for the field.
This was driven by new production from the K-33 and K-35 wells which came on-stream in December 2013 and February 2014 respectively, and the successful exploration well K-36, which was tied-in to production in April 2014.
36 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements Average production from the Bhit and Badhra gas fields in 2014 was 3.0 kboepd net to Premier 2013: 3.3 kboepd.
Higher production was achieved from the Badhra gas field which benefitted from two new wells being brought on-stream in the first quarter of 2014.
An additional two development wells were tied-in at Badhra at the end of the year partially offsetting natural decline from existing wells.
Good progress has also been made on the compressor reconfiguration project at Bhit, which was initiated in the first half of 2014, to improve ultimate recovery by around 54 billion cubic feet bcf gross.
Five of the 10 compressors have been commissioned and the project is on track to complete in April 2015.
Production from the Qadirpur gas field averaged 3.2 kboepd 2013: 3.6 kboepd.
Production fell over the year, in part due to natural decline in the field, but also due to an unplanned shutdown at the power plants into which gas is delivered.
Production from the Zamzama field was lower in 2014 averaging 3.1 kboepd 2013: 5.1 kboepd.
This marked decrease in production was due to faster declining reservoir pressures than initially anticipated and Premier has updated its remaining reserves estimate for the field accordingly.
However, this decline was partially mitigated by intervention work carried out at the Zam-4 production well in May and the re-start of gas production from the Zam-8 well in October.
The joint venture is also considering further infill drilling and additional wellhead compression to mitigate the natural decline seen in the existing wells.
First gas was achieved from the Zarghun South gas field in August and the field is currently producing at around 13 million standard cubic feet per day mmscfd gross.
All costs pertaining to Premiers 3.75 per cent working interest in the field continue to be carried by the operator.
EXPLORATION AND APPRAISAL Premier drilled the successful K-36 exploration well on Kadanwari in Pakistan in the first half of 2014.
The well discovered gas in a separate step-out compartment and was tied-in to the Kadanwari facilities during April 2014.
Outlook Bhit compressor reconfiguration project to be completed in 2015 Further infill development drilling and compression projects under consideration BUSINESS UNIT REVIEWS continued 37 MAURITANIA PRODUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT Production from the Chinguetti field averaged 447 barrels of oil per day bopd 2013: 507 bopd net to Premier during the year.
The fall in production was driven by natural decline from the existing wells as well as a shutdown of the facilities in January for a mooring chain replacement.
The FPSO contract has now been extended to December 2017.
Elsewhere in Mauritania, Premier relinquished its non-operated interest in PSC-A, which contains the Banda gas development and PSC-B, which contains the Tiof and Tevet discoveries.
EXPLORATION AND APPRAISAL The Tapendar-1 exploration well was drilled on PSC C-10 in the first half of 2014 and was plugged and abandoned as a dry hole.
Subsequently, the joint venture partners agreed to exit the licence on 30 November 2014.
38 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements HIGHER UK PRODUCTION, DRIVEN BY IMPROVED OPERATING EFFICIENCY AT THE BALMORAL AREA, INCREASED CONTRIBUTIONS FROM HUNTINGTON AND ROCHELLE AND FLUSH PRODUCTION FROM KYLE, RESULTED IN A STRONG RISE IN UK CASH FLOWS IN 2014, DESPITE THE SHARP FALL IN THE OIL PRICE IN THE SECOND HALF OF THE YEAR.
KEY MILESTONES WERE REACHED ON PREMIERS OPERATED SOLAN AND CATCHER PROJECTS.
IN ADDITION, THE SALE OF THE HIGH COST SCOTT AREA ASSETS FOR US$130 MILLION WAS SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETED IN DECEMBER.
Highlights and achievements Average production of 19.4 kboepd, up 30.3 per cent on 2014 Government approval and partner sanction of the Catcher development Solan facilities installed West of Shetland Sale of the high cost Scott area assets completed UNITED KINGDOM BUSINESS UNIT REVIEWS continued Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 39 PRODUCTION In 2014, UK production averaged 19.4 kboepd, an increase of 30.3 per cent on the corresponding period 2013: 14.9 kboepd.
Production from the Premier-operated Balmoral area exceeded expectations, averaging 3.2 kboepd during 2014 2013: 2.5 kboepd, as the asset benefitted from improved operating efficiency and the reinstatement of five wells, four at the end of 2013 and one in 2014.
Production from the non-operated Wytch Farm asset was also strong, averaging 5.6 kboepd 2013: 5.5 kboepd again driven by high operating efficiency as well as a successful programme of infill drilling which saw four new wells brought on-stream in the first half of 2014.
Production from Scott, Telford and Rochelle averaged 3.8 kboepd, broadly in line with expectations.
While production from the fields was impacted by several unplanned shutdowns, reservoir productivity was strong when unconstrained by facilities, with Rochelle, for example, achieving rates of up to 100 mmscfd gross.
In December Premier successfully completed the sale of the Scott area assets for a consideration of US$130 million.
As part of the transaction, all associated decommissioning costs liabilities were transferred to the buyer.
Average production from the non-operated Huntington field was 5.7 kboepd 2013: 3.5 kboepd.
Although the group benefitted from a full year of production from the asset, production performance from the field was significantly below expectations due to lower operating efficiency as a result of downtime on the production facilities and restrictions on exporting the gas through the CATS pipeline system.
Most recently, production from the field has been restricted while repairs are undertaken to a topsides valve on the CATS riser platform which failed to re-start in early December following a planned outage.
The field is now expected to re-start full production in mid-March.
Since December 2011, the non-operated Kyle field underwent redevelopment following storm damage to the Banff FPSO to which the field ties-back.
That work was successfully completed in 2014 and Kyle was brought back on-stream in July.
The field benefited from early flush production with peak rates in excess of 7 kbopd gross.
While flush production has continued into 2015 with the field currently averaging around 5 kbopd, this is expected to decline during the year.
DEVELOPMENTS Further progress was made on the Premier-operated Solan project West of Shetland during 2014.
The onshore construction of the subsea oil storage tank, jacket and topsides were completed and the facilities were successfully installed at the end of the summer using the Heerema Thialf heavy lift vessel.
The first producer and injector wells also successfully completed in September with good flow rates achieved.
40 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements Commissioning commenced in November with the arrival of the Safe Scandinavia flotel which is able to accommodate up to 400 people.
This programme, however, has taken longer than anticipated due to poor weather conditions and low productivity over the winter period.
Whilst productivity has improved in recent weeks, additional accommodation modules will be required to achieve habitation on the platform.
Further flotel slots have been identified whilst conversion of the drilling rig contracted to arrive in April is also being considered.
As a result, first oil will be later than the previous guidance of the second quarter of 2015 and Premier will provide further updates to the market as the work progresses.
Premier continues to target plateau production rates from the field of 20-25 kbopd gross by year-end.
Cash spend to 31 December 2014 stood at US$1.4 billion.
Premier agreed to extend its loan to Chrysaor to ensure the project remains fully funded to first oil.
In return, Premier will take 100 per cent of the projects cash flow after certain deductions until the loan and interest has been repaid.
As at 31 December, the loan and interest outstanding stood at US$547 million.
However, Premier continues to work with Chrysaor and potential providers of debt finance on a partial sale or refinancing of the Chrysaor loan.
The Premier-operated Catcher area project is progressing on budget and on schedule.
The development achieved partner approval and government sanction in 2014 and the project is now well into the execution phase.
Engineering procurement and construction of key subsea equipment, including the drilling templates, gas export line, pipeline manifolds and subsea trees and control systems are under way.
Fabrication of the FPSO hull has also commenced, with first steel cut in Japan in early January 2015.
Offshore construction activity is planned to commence in mid-2015 with the installation of the subsea facilities, including the gas export line and drilling templates.
Preparations for development drilling with the Ensco-100 jack up rig are well advanced and the campaign is on track to commence mid-year.
BUSINESS UNIT REVIEWS continued 41 EXPLORATION Premiers UK North Sea exploration efforts are focused on near-field exploration opportunities close to its existing developments and producing assets.
In particular, preparation is under way to drill an exploration well at the Laverda prospect to the north of the Catcher area hub in 2016.
Work also continues on the Bagpuss and Blofeld heavy oil prospects, located on the Halibut Horst, a well-defined basement high within the Moray Firth.
The joint venture partners are targeting the first half of 2016 for the drilling of the Bagpuss well.
2014 saw Premier continue to high grade and rationalise its UK North Sea exploration portfolio with a number of licences either relinquished or sold over the course of the year.
Outlook Solan field targeted to be at plateau production rates of 20-25 kbopd by year-end Development drilling scheduled to commence at Catcher mid-2015 Exploration focus on near-field exploration opportunities US$2.7 billion of UK corporate tax losses and allowances 42 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements THE PREMIER-OPERATED CHIM SO FIELD OUT-PERFORMED EXPECTATIONS IN 2014 AS WE CONTINUED TO MAXIMISE PRODUCTION DELIVERY AND TO IMPROVE THE RELIABILITY OF THE FACILITIES.
THE SUBSEA TIE-BACK OF THE DUA FIELD WAS COMPLETED SUCCESSFULLY IN JULY, EXTENDING PLATEAU PRODUCTION AND THE FIELD LIFE OF CHIM SO.
Highlights and achievements Record production and cash flow achieved from Chim So Oil sold at a premium to Brent Operating efficiency from the Chim So facility of 84 per cent, up 20 per cent on 2013 Dua on-stream VIETNAM BUSINESS UNIT REVIEWS continued Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 43 PRODUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT In 2014, production from Block 12W, which contains the Chim So and Dua fields, exceeded expectations averaging 16.9 kboepd 13.7 kbopd of oil and 15.4 mmscfd of gas net to Premier, up 19.9 per cent on 2013.
During 2014, Premier completed significant upgrades to the Chim So FPSO aimed at maximising production deliverability and operating efficiency.
This included upgrades to the boilers and gas compressors as well as the installation of an additional diesel generator to improve the reliability of power generation.
As a result, operating efficiency from the Chim So facility increased to 84 per cent during 2014, up 20 per cent on 2013.
Record production rates of 19.2 kboepd net were achieved in November and December and the field is currently producing over 20 kboepd net.
44 The three well subsea tie-back of the Dua oil field to the Chim So facilities was completed, with first oil from the field achieved in July 2014.
Following the completion of the Dua drilling programme, the West Telesto rig drilled two further water injector wells at Chim So to provide pressure support to the fields oil production.
This, together with new production from Dua, will extend plateau production and the field life of Chim So.
In January 2015, Premier surpassed the milestone of 30 mmbbls gross of production from Chim So.
This strong performance from Block 12W has generated significant cash flows for the group and the costs incurred to bring both Chim So and Dua on-stream have now been fully recovered.
Outlook Continued optimisation of Chim So production Maintain strong operating efficiency performance Growth opportunities to sustain production under consideration BUSINESS UNIT REVIEWS continued Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 45 NEW COUNTRY ENTRY - EXPLORATION IN ADDITION TO EXPLORING IN OUR EXISTING CORE AREAS, PREMIER LOOKS TO BUILD BUSINESS UNITS IN NEW COUNTRIES VIA AN EXPLORATION-LED ENTRY STRATEGY.
THE FOCUS IS ON EMERGENT PLAYS THAT, WITH EXPLORATION SUCCESS, HAVE THE ABILITY TO DEVELOP INTO NEW BUSINESS UNITS IN THE 2018 TO 2025 TIME FRAME.
IN THESE NEW COUNTRIES PREMIER HAS A STRICT DISCIPLINED APPROACH TO INVESTMENT ENSURING THAT COST EXPOSURE IN THE EXPLORATION PHASE IS MINIMISED AND ONLY THE BEST OPPORTUNITIES ARE MATURED TO DRILL-READY STATUS.
AT YEAR-END, PREMIER HAD ESTABLISHED SUCH EXPLORATION POSITIONS IN BRAZIL, IRAQ, KENYA AND THE WESTERN SAHARA SADR.
Highlights and achievements New 3D seismic acquired over Premiers Foz Do Amazonas basin acreage Local office opened in Rio fide Janeiro, Brazil in 2014 BRAZIL NEW COUNTRY ENTRY IRAQ 46 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements Premier entered Brazil in 2013 securing three licenses in the underexplored offshore regions of the proven Foz Do Amazonas and Cear basins.
In 2014, a small representative office was established and new 3D seismic data was acquired over Premiers Foz Do Amazonas basin acreage.
The full processed products are expected to be available in the first half of 2015.
Acquisition of new 3D data over the Cear basin acreage is expected to commence in July 2015.
The earliest exploration well on Premiers acreage in Brazil will not be until 2017.
Premier holds a 30 per cent non-operated interest in Block 12, onshore Iraq, in the under-explored western part of one of the worlds most prolific oil basins.
At year-end a 3D seismic survey acquisition programme was 75 per cent complete and it is anticipated that processed products will be available in the third quarter of 2015.
There is one commitment well on this licence which is planned to be drilled in late 2016 or early 2017. BUSINESS UNIT REVIEWS continued Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 47 Premier entered Kenya in 2012 and, following the withdrawal from our offshore acreage in 2014, the company focussed on one onshore licence Block 2B.
This licence covers a Tertiary sub-basin within the Anza Graben and was assessed as a potential look-a-like to the successful plays drilled recently both in Uganda and further west in Kenya.
The first well on the block Badada-1, drilled in early 2015, did not find hydrocarbons.
Premier has no further commitments in Kenya beyond the drilling of this well.
Offshore SADR, Premier holds 45,000 square kilometres net of acreage across five licences.
At present, all SADR licences are in abeyance pending the countrys admission to the United Nations.
Premier maintains two small new venture groups, one in London and one in Singapore, tasked with evaluating exploration-led entry options in new countries.
Any new entry will be dependent on the quality of the opportunity and its ability to create value at our conservative oil price assumptions at the time.
Outlook Acquisition of new 3D data over the Cear basin acreage planned for 2015 Continue to look for opportunities in new countries which can deliver either high impact prospects or play opening opportunities with significant follow-on potential
