18 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Principal Risks and Uncertainties On behalf of, and in consultation with, the Board of Directors, the Group Risk Committee is responsible for identifying, assessing and prioritising all material risks facing the Group and ensuring, where possible, that appropriate action is taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
The table below highlights the major risks identified which may affect the Groups ability to deliver its business model and strategy, and the measures taken to address them.
Risks Description of risks Measures to reduce the risks Market risks Political and economic The Group conducts a substantial proportion of The Group has a diverse geographic portfolio: instability its operations in emerging markets which have Indeveloping its corporate strategy, and in order significant capacity for profitable growth, but to help mitigate the risk that could arise in any one whichalso have an increased risk of political particular territory, the Board seeks to maintain andeconomic instability.
an appropriate balance both between mature and emerging markets and, within the developing world, between its operations in different territories.
In addition, the Group has extensive and long established experience in all key markets and the Board continually monitors those markets toensure that any specific risks or opportunities are identified and addressed as they arise.
Demand risks Demand for the Groups products may be adversely Extensive knowledge of the Groups selected impacted by changes in consumer preferences.
markets is a core strategic pillar and the Group actively monitors the needs and aspirations of The increasingly competitive environment and consumers on a regular and ongoing basis and continued growth of discounters could adversely iscontinuously developing new products to impact the rate of sales growth and profit margins.
The Group will continue to invest in selected brands and selected markets in order to drive profitable sales growth.
The Board believes that competition ishealthy as it encourages and motivates the Groups operations across the world to do their best to serve the interests of consumers and our brands.
19 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Risks Description of risks Measures to reduce the risks Raw materials In common with other companies within its sector, The Group takes measures to protect against the Groups profitability is affected by price and the short-term impact of these fluctuations and supply fluctuations in raw materials used in the shortfalls: however, failure to recover higher costs manufacture of its products.
Key items, such as or shortfalls in availability could have a negative oilsand fats, packaging materials and energy are impact on profits.
The Group continually monitors subject to fluctuations in price and availability.
the price and availability of materials against forecast demand to ensure that there are adequate resources to continue in production throughout the world.
The Group also continues to refine its raw material forecasting processes and to strengthen itsprocurement capabilities.
Financial risks Foreign currency and The international nature of the Groups activities The Group requires its operating units to hedge their treasury risk gives rise to both transactional exchange rate risk material transaction exposures on sales and purchases with the main exposure relating to US Dollar trade conducted in currencies other than their functional balances and translation exposure when the results, currencies where possible.
The Group does not actively assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are hedge its translation exposures as these are of an translated into Sterling.
accounting rather than a cash nature: however, the international spread of the Groups operations itself reduces dependence on individual currencies.
The Group maintains a centralised treasury function which operates on a non-speculative basis in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Board of Directors and reviewed during the year by the Board and the Audit Committee.
The aim of this function is to mitigate the effects of any adverse movements in exchange rates and interest rates on the Groups financial results and support operating units in treasury matters.
Operational risks Staff retention and The Group recognises that in order to deliver The Board believes that there is an attractive recruitment sustained strong results it requires the right calibre employment proposition across the Group in place of people at all levels of the business.
In particular, which will continue to attract capable recruits and the Group must compete to recruit and retain that key management and personnel are sufficiently capable individuals within the business including well recognised, incentivised and challenged in order training them in the skills and competencies which to retain them as far as possible.
are required to deliver profitable growth.
Reputation risks Should the Group fail to meet high product safety, Product safety, social, environmental and ethical social, environmental and ethical standards in all standards continue to be the cornerstones on which operations and activities, its corporate reputation our business is based.
They are key focus areas for could be damaged, leading to the rejection of our the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, a products by consumers, damage to brands and standing sub-committee of the Board.
Should any diversion of management time into rebuilding issues arise in these areas, the Group has processes ourreputation.
in place to enable a quick response.
The Groups strategic report incorporates the Chairmans statement, business model, key performance indicators, financial review, business reviews, principal risks and uncertainties and those areas incorporated by crossreference.
By Order of theBoard Alex Kanellis Chief ExecutiveOfficer 29 July2014
