Risks and uncertainties UNDERSTANDING AND MANAGING OUR RISKS Risk management All QinetiQ business operations are graded within a Value Pipeline.
Within the context of the Core, Explore Risk management includes the methods and processes used by QinetiQ to manage risks and seize opportunities and Test for Value strategy the Boards commercial appetite is: related to the achievement of our strategic objectives.
It provides a framework for identifying particular events Hungry for opportunities relating to increased market or circumstances relevant to the Groups objectives risks share where we have proven delivery to existing and and opportunities, assessing them in terms of likelihood potential new customers and magnitude of impact, determining a response Balanced for opportunities that translate proven strategy and monitoring progress.
By identifying and delivery into new markets or new capability delivery proactively addressing risks and opportunities, we are into existing customers or that commit QinetiQ to better able to protect and create value for our stakeholders.
unlimited or excessive liabilities Progress continues to be made to fully embed these Cautious for opportunities that involve new capability processes and to improve their effectiveness.
The Risk or delivery into new markets and any opportunity into & CSR Committee has run for a full year focusing on risks a new country outside the US and the UK where the primary impact is non-financial, with the Audit Committee retaining a focus on what might be termed The Board agrees and reviews its tolerance of risk purely financial risks.
The differentiation between pure through appropriate delegations of authority to the financial and non-financial risk has aided both the Executive and senior leaders.
Executive and Board risk review process, allowing for The Board recognises that QinetiQ operates in complex greater focus on the effectiveness of relevant mitigations.
geographical and regulatory environments and supports Risk appetite local decision making within defined delegation of The QinetiQ Board recognises that risk management authority.
The Board requires all employees to abide is a complex process and should reflect both the need by relevant legal requirements as a minimum.
to take risk and avoid harm.
It also recognises that in The Group Risk Register todays operational environment closed statements do The Group Risk Register consists of material risks relating not help the organisation, as inevitably issues are rarely to effective delivery of our strategy.
These risks may black and white and ultimately success or failure will be emerge as standalone risks or be present through the determined by shareholders and regulators as well as aggregation or interlinking of risks.
The register considers: public opinion.
The authority, resources and coordination of those The QinetiQ risk appetite focuses on critical risk areas involved in the identification, assessment and necessary to achieve our strategic goals.
It aims to management of the significant risks faced by provide clear boundaries, operational flexibility and the Group guidance to support the thinking of executives and senior leaders so that they can make and provide evidence for The response to the significant risks which have been identified by management and others decisions that reflect the need to protect our prized possession, trust.
Three categories of appetite are The monitoring of reports from Group management defined as follows: The maintenance of a control environment directed Hungry: Willing to consider all delivery options and towards the proper management of risk eager to be innovative and to choose options offering The Group Risk Register is reviewed by the Executive and potentially higher business rewards, with a mature the Board.
In addition, the risk owners present an update understanding of inherent risk of current status and mitigating actions by rotation Balanced: Preference for delivery options that have throughout the year.
a low or moderate degree of residual risk and where successful delivery also provides an acceptable level of reward and value for money Cautious: Avoidance of risk and uncertainty is the key objective, a greater level of control and mitigation may be required.
Significantly greater returns expected for commercial opportunities to offset risk 22 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: strategy Directors report Financial statements Additional information Risks relating to strategy Potential impact Mitigation Associated strategic driver Defence market Any reduction in government defence and security spending Our focus on a range of markets in aerospace, defence and 1 in either the UK or the US could have an adverse impact on the security as well as adjacent sectors provides a degree of portfolio 3 Groups financial performance.
The Group will continue to review trends in its The financial burden on both UK and US Government budgets traditional markets expenditure in order to align the business from the current economic downturn may lead to reduced with those trends.
spending in the markets in which the Group operates.
The MOD has made considerable progress in balancing its budget.
This could be exacerbated by: In defence research, where QinetiQ is the private sector market Structural changes in UK MOD Defence Equipment and Support leader, spending has been stabilised at about 400m p. a. UK General Election in May 2015 and the next Strategic Defence until 2015. and Security Review SDSR The sale of US Services removes the Groups exposure to the US Current plans of both US and UK Governments are to drawdown federal services market.
troops from Afghanistan by the end of 2014.
The Group is managing the impact of drawdown from Afghanistan by maintaining a market focus and competitive positioning in adjacent markets, which are not directly conflict-related.
Following the Currie Review, a Bill and regulations to introduce QinetiQ and other defence industry partners have been fully the Single Source Procurement Reform are now subject to the engaged with the MOD in the development of the new framework Parliamentary process and scheduled to be approved mid-2014.
The impact will be to replace the Yellow Book in 2015 with a The MOD has requested that industry test and provide feedback legally binding framework for how single sourced work must on the proposed new reporting as it is developed prior to be contracted to ensure that a fair and reasonable price is paid implementation, so that the transition is effective for all parties.
for goods and services procured in the absence of competition.
This could have an adverse impact on the Groups financial performance.
The Reform Bill as currently drafted only affects new single sourced contracts from the beginning of 2015.
Organisational Conflicts of Interest OCI may occur where the QinetiQ takes proactive steps to manage any potential OCI and Group provides services to both a defence end-user customer maintain its ability to provide independent advice.
Since March as well as those within the defence supply chain.
2012, QinetiQ has operated under the generic formal compliance regime, replacing a QinetiQ-specific one.
This change has not affected the rigour of the compliance process.
The aerospace, defence and security markets are highly QinetiQ seeks to focus on areas within these markets in which competitive.
The Groups performance may be adversely affected its deep customer understanding, domain knowledge, technical should it not be able to compete in the markets in which it aims expertise and platform independence provide a strong proposition to operate.
and a significant advantage in competitive bidding.
Key to strategic drivers 1 Customers 2 People 3 Innovation 4 Productivity A All 23 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Risks and uncertainties continued Risks relating to strategy continued Potential impact Mitigation Associated strategic driver Contract profile A material element of the Groups revenue is derived from In February 2013 the Group signed the LTPA for a third five-year 1 one contract.
The LTPA is a 25-year contract to provide test, period with the MOD.
The next break point is in 2018.
4 evaluation, and training services to the MOD.
The original The Group continues to achieve strong customer performance contract was signed in 2003.
The LTPA operates under five-year and satisfaction levels, and significantly exceeded the agreed periods with specific programmes, targets and performance minimum performance rating of 80% in 2013. measures set for each period.
The Group has achieved significant cost savings for the MOD The LTPA directly contributed 16% of the Groups revenue and on delivered services, and is on track to deliver 180m of savings supported a further 10% through tasking services using LTPA over the life of the contract.
The amounts payable under some government contracts can The contracts and orders pipeline is regularly reviewed by senior be significant and the timing of the receipt of orders could have operational management.
a material impact on the Groups performance in a given reporting period.
Some of the Groups revenue is derived from contracts that have The nature of many of the services provided under such a fixed price.
There is a risk that the costs required for the delivery fixed-price arrangements is often for a defined amount of effort of a contract could be higher than those agreed in the contract or resource rather than firm deliverables and, as a result, mitigates as a result of the performance of new or developed products, the risk of costs escalating.
operational over-runs or external factors.
Any significant increase The Group ensures that its fixed-price bids and projects are in costs which cannot be passed on to a customer may reduce the reviewed for early detection and management of issues which profitability of a contract or even result in a contract becoming may result in cost over-run or excessive delivery risk.
Some of the Groups contracts have terms, not unusual in defence, that provide for unlimited liabilities for the Group, or termination rights for the customer.
Working in a global marketplace QinetiQ operates internationally.
Risks include: regulation While the Group has a growing geographical footprint, 3 and administration changes, taxation policy, political instability, its traditional activities are confined to the UK and the US.
civil unrest, and differences in culture.
Relationships or contracts in new markets are assessed for their Negative events could disrupt some of the Groups operations inherent risks, using our International Business Risk Assessment and have a material impact on its future financial performance.
process, before being formally agreed.
Emerging and reputational risk Our reputation is a highly valuable asset and as an innovative An internal project has been launched to identify potential A company we can operate at the cutting edge of current scientific emerging reputational risks and evaluate their materiality and regulatory thinking.
Failure to identify, measure and manage emerging, political, public, regulatory and reputational trends could materially impact Group performance and shareholder value.
24 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: strategy Directors report Financial statements Additional information Risks relating to strategy continued Potential impact Mitigation Associated strategic driver US foreign ownership regulations In the US, the Group undertakes work that is deemed to be of The Group maintains procedures to ensure that extant 1 importance to US national security and is therefore conducted arrangements remain effective and to respond to any changes that under foreign ownership regulations, which require operation might occur in US attitudes to foreign ownership of such activities.
Successful migration of Cyveillance to a legal entity not governed The regulations are designed to insulate these activities from by these regulations, the creation of a revised proxy regime for undue foreign influence as a result of foreign ownership.
Global Products and the agreed divestment of the US Services Failure to comply with the regulations could result in sanctions, division have reduced the burden of these regulations.
suspension or debarment from government contracts, as well The section entitled Management and control of US subsidiaries as reputational damage to our brand.
on page 61 of this report provides details of the Proxy agreement.
The Proxy agreement itself may present operational management challenges impacting performance.
Risks relating to people Recruitment and retention The Group operates in many specialised engineering, technical The Group conducts regular activities to identify key roles 2 and scientific domains.
Succession plans are in place looking internally Key capabilities and competencies may be lost through failure at candidates ready now or in need of development to fill to recruit and retain employees due to internal factors, as well particular roles and externally to identify people QinetiQ as macro factors across the sector affecting the desirability, may wish to attract.
intake and training of engineers, scientists and technologists.
QinetiQ has made improvements in employee engagement and conducts an annual satisfaction survey.
QinetiQ is leading industry in The 5% Club, a campaign to increase the recruitment of graduates and apprentices.
See also case study on page 16.
Breaches of security and IT systems failure The Group operates in a highly regulated IT environment.
Information systems are designed with consideration to single 1 The data held by QinetiQ is confidential and needs to be secure, points of failure and the removal of risk of minor and major against a background of increasing cyber threat.
A breach of data security or IT systems failure could have an The Group maintains business continuity plans that cover impact on our customers operations, resulting in significant geographical assets as well as the technical capability of reputational damage, as well as the possibility of exclusion employees.
These plans cover a range of scenarios including from some types of government contracts.
loss of access to IT and are regularly tested.
The Groups financial systems are required to be adequate Data security is assured through a multi-layered approach that to support US and UK Government contracting regulations.
provides a hardened environment, including robust physical security arrangements and data resilience strategies.
Comprehensive internal and external testing of potential vulnerabilities is conducted along with 24 7 monitoring.
The Group engages with US and UK Government contracting audit agencies, to enable them to test relevant financial systems and data, and implements any recommended improvement plans.
25 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Risks and uncertainties continued Risks relating to people continued Potential impact Mitigation Associated strategic driver Significant breach of relevant laws and regulations The Group operates in highly regulated environments and The Group has robust policy, procedures and training in place A recognises that its operations have the potential to have an to ensure that it meets all current regulations.
impact on a variety of stakeholders.
The Group manages the effective identification, measurement Failure to comply with particular regulations could result in and control of regulatory risk.
a combination of fines, penalties, civil or criminal action.
Local management continuously monitor local laws.
Professional In addition, failure may also lead to suspension or debarment advice is sought when engaging in new territories to ensure that from government contracts, as well as reputational damage the Group complies with local and international regulations.
Key areas of focus for the Group include the following: Safety liability of products, services and advice.
QinetiQ continues to be externally authorised for regulated design and maintenance services in the aviation sector.
A Director of Engineering and Technology has been appointed and is leading programmes focused on engineering and technical competency and independent technical assurance.
Workplace and occupational health, safety and Safety and environmental systems continue to be accredited environmental matters.
QinetiQ is building on existing programmes to focus on human factors and behavioural safety training to embed its safety culture.
See page 37 Bribery and ethics.
The QinetiQ Code of Conduct states that the Group does not tolerate bribery and corruption.
Annual business ethics training is mandatory for all employees across the Group and the Board.
Systems exist for managing international business, agents, gifts and hospitality.
Performance is reviewed externally and benchmarked against others in this sector.
See page 36 International trade controls.
Continual compliance has been supported by a programme to improve QinetiQs handling of legacy materials as well as to further improve our systems and processes for the handling and management of new materials and electronic data.
Investment in this area supports our plans for growth in the international arena as well as building confidence in managing existing requirements.
26 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: strategy Directors report Financial statements Additional information Risks relating to financial management and markets Potential impact Mitigation Associated strategic driver Defined benefit pension obligations The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme.
Scheme performance is reviewed regularly by Group management 4 There is currently a deficit between the projected liability of the in conjunction with the schemes independent Trustees.
scheme and the value of the assets it holds.
External actuarial and investment advice is regularly taken The size of the deficit may be materially affected by a number of to ensure the best interests of both the Group and the factors, including inflation, investment returns, changes in interest scheme members.
rates and improvements in life expectancy of members.
The Group and Trustees reduced future liabilities in March 2012 An increase in the deficit may require the Group to increase by switching from RPI to CPI for indexation purposes and agreeing the cash contributions to the scheme, which would reduce the recovery payments of 10.5m per annum over six years.
Groups cash available for other purposes.
The scheme was closed to future accrual on 31 October 2013.
At the last triennial funding valuation on 30 June 2011, the deficit was A hedge of 20% of liabilities and an inflation cap for liabilities was 74.7m: the likely cost of a buyout would be significantly higher.
Tax legislation QinetiQ is liable to pay tax in the countries in which it operates, External advice and consultation are sought on potential changes 4 principally the UK and the US.
in tax legislation in the UK and the US enabling the Group to plan Changes in tax legislation in these countries could have an adverse for and mitigate potential changes.
impact on the level of tax paid on profits generated by the Group.
The Group is currently actively engaging with industry, MOD and In the UK, R&D Expenditure Credits RDEC were introduced from industry bodies regarding R&D tax credits.
1 April 2013 and will be mandatory from 1 April 2016, replacing Opportunities continue to be explored to manage both effective the R&D super deduction.
Until that date, QinetiQ will continue tax rate ETR and cash tax impacts in line with the Board endorsed to claim the super deduction while the treatment of RDEC for Tax Strategy.
MOD single source contracts remains under discussion between The Group has 191.4m of UK tax losses carried forward as at industry and the Government.
Exchange rates The Group is exposed to volatility in exchange rates as a result The Group actively hedges all significant transactional foreign 4 of the international nature of its operations.
exchange exposure as described in the notes to the financial This includes a translational impact on the key financial statements and has adopted hedge accounting.
statements as a result of the Group reporting its financial results The Groups objective is to reduce medium-term volatility to cash in sterling.
The Group has limited transaction exposure as its revenue and The Group protects its balance sheet and reserves from adverse related costs are often borne in the same currency, principally foreign exchange movements by financing acquisitions in North US dollars or sterling.
America with US dollar-denominated borrowings, thereby partially Of the Groups total revenue, approximately 50% is contracted in mitigating the risk as US dollar earnings are used to service and sterling, 40% in US dollars and 3% in euros.
Inflation, credit and interest rates The Group relies on the proper functioning of the credit markets The Group maintains a prudent level of committed funding 4 which could have an impact on both the availability and associated facilities: a five-year multi-currency facility totalling 268m was costs of financing.
provided by its relationship banks and signed in 2011.
This is The Group is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that currently undrawn.
borrowings are issued at floating interest rates.
The Group also uses fixed-rate debt instruments issued to US private placement investors with maturity dates up to 2019.
The Group is exposed to inflation spikes above the The Group manages inflation risks through appropriate 4 long-term average.
27 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
