AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED This review includes quarterly reports from the head of The group maintains a sound system of internal control which is imbedded at all its operations and sites, as part internal audit in respect of findings from internal control of the boards commitment to the long term success reviews and testing, assurances obtained in relation to of the company and the protection of the value of its the certications required under SOX necessary for the reputation and assets in order to safeguard the interests companys NASDAQ listing and other assurances from of its shareholders.
regular management reviews as appropriate.
An effective system of operational and financial controls, The group carried out an assessment of its internal including the maintenance of qualitative financial records, control over consolidated financial reporting pursuant to is an important element of the groups internal control.
Section 404 of SOX and the United States Disclosure The system of internal control provides reasonable rather Rules and Transparency Rules.
The management of the than absolute assurance that the groups business company, which is responsible under SOX for establishing objectives will be achieved within the risk tolerance levels and maintaining an adequate system of internal controls dened by the board.
over consolidated financial reporting, evaluated the effectiveness of that system using the COSO framework The board has ultimate responsibility for the groups 2013.
Based on that evaluation, the management of system of internal control and risk management and the company concludes in its annual report on Form discharges its duties through determining the risk appetite 20-F led with the SEC that the system of internal control of the business and its risk tolerance, as detailed in the over consolidated financial reporting was effective as at risk management section, as well as overseeing the risk 31 December 2014. management strategy and ensuring that management is responsible for maintaining the established control The board is responsible for environment.
The groups executive committee develops determining the nature and Risk and monitors the internal control environment and also extent of the significant risks management oversees risk management including the identification the group has to manage in of risks and development and implementation of order to achieve its strategic objectives.
The board risk mitigation plans.
The executive committee has believes in the maintenance of sound risk management established a strategic planning, budgeting and and internal control systems.
forecasting system against which it monitors monthly financial and operational information along with trading Every year, the board reviews the effectiveness of the results and cash flow information.
On a quarterly basis, groups risk management and internal control systems, the executive management reviews performance against which cover all material financial, operational, compliance, budget and forecast along with financial and operational reputational and sustainable development risks.
This reviews and analysis of material variances at local mine review relies on assessments undertaken by the audit board meetings and also reports performance and committee and such assessments occurred throughout findings to the board.
Risk is managed by means of the risk management triangle shown below.
The board, at The audit committee reviews the internal control the pinnacle of the triangle, has reserved for its approval process, including quarterly financial reporting, and its the management of risk.
The board considers the groups effectiveness on an annual basis to ensure it remains strategic plan annually and when issues arise which may robust in identifying control weaknesses as well as to affect the strategic plan.
In addition, at its quarterly comply with SOX and internal audit requirements.
The group is focused on maintaining a sound system of internal meetings the board considers the companys five-year control, based on the groups policies, procedures and plan, group valuation and the groups corporate models guidelines, in all operations.
RISK MANAGEMENT TRIANGLE Board Board charter Group strategy Five-year plan and evaluation Annual report and form 20-F Quarterly reports Risk evaluation and assessment Audit committees Annual insurance review Internal audit reports Executive Quarterly operational board meetings committee and Monthly management meetings management Weekly executive meetings Environmental, health and safety committee meetings Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 162 At the audit committee meeting held in August 2014, the The groups management team was actively involved in committee reviewed the annual risk register and the risk all the groups operations throughout the year, including management framework which are used by the board numerous visits to the groups sites and operations, and management to identify and scrutinise key risks attending monthly meetings with general managers and participating in weekly meetings with other senior facing the group, and considered whether those risks are members of staff, in each case to discuss critical issues appropriately managed.
The risk register was presented to affecting the operations, all of which are undertaken to the audit committee by the head of internal audit following assist in reducing the groups risk exposure.
its update in conjunction with senior management.
The risk register and framework use the companys existing As part of the preparation of the companys annual report risk matrix and universal risk prioritisation and rating scale, on Form 20-F, which is filed with the SEC, the substantial which grade and prioritise perceived and known risks.
risk factors are again identified and set out, highlighting The risk register assists management in identifying and to the market those aspects which could have a material assessing the key risks facing the business.
Features of effect on the companys business.
the risk register include the risk area: the actual risk: detail regarding responsibility: the inherent risk assessment: The board identified and assessed the principal risk controls and mitigation in place: and the residual risk factors and uncertainties which it considers either assessment.
The inherent risk assessment features two individually or in combination as having the potential to key components, the first being a measure of probability have a material adverse effect on the groups business.
and the second a measure of the impact were such a risk to arise.
The audit committee acknowledges there are The groups strategy takes into account known risks but many risks inherent to a mining business that will always there may be additional risks unknown to the group and exist and the challenge is to manage them effectively.
other risks, currently believed to be immaterial, which could develop into material risks.
Full details relating to By its nature, the risk register is a dynamic document the groups industry generally can be found in the annual subject to change.
However, it is used by management report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC, a copy of which is to perform their duties while at the same time allowing the available on the companys website.
internal audit function to review and evaluate the activities of management in their efforts to control issues of risk From its assessment the board has itemised several key and assess whether these activities are sufficient for the risks, including the Key Performance Indicators KPIs mitigation and management of risk.
and how these are being managed.
Key risks and uncertainties KPI Impact Policies and systems Mitigation External risks Risk: Gold price volatility Realised gold Earnings and cash flow volatility Long term financial The group constantly monitors the price from sudden or significant strategy and market in which it operates.
The internal declines in the gold price or monitoring.
treasury committees responsibilities reserves downgrades as a result Treasury policies.
include monitoring and discussing the of changes in the gold price.
gold price which is reported to the executive committees and the board on an ongoing basis.
Forecasting and budgeting assumptions relating to commodities are prudent and monitored by the board and executive committee.
Risk: Country risk Total Inadequate monitoring of inPolicies to ensure Successful relationships with shareholder country political instability and that the group is governments, senior in-country officials return changes to political environment meeting the terms and other key external stakeholders performance may impact the ability to sustain of its agreed and are built and maintained.
signed licences and includes delivering on and adhering conventions.
The group actively country monitoring monitors regulatory and political and stakeholder developments as well as the country risk management ratings on a continuous basis.
Risk: Corporate, social and environmental responsibility Total Poor management of stakeholder, Social and Attention is placed on maintaining shareholder community and government environmental sound relations with local communities return expectations and a lack of policies.
and working with these groups to performance corporate and social responsibility Commitment to enhance these relationships.
The may lead to the inability to sustain improvement of groups environmental committee, operations in the area and impact communities.
under the chairmanship of the CEO, on the groups ability to expand Regular continues to address these issues and into other regions.
communication with reports quarterly to the board.
of stakeholder relations at executive committee meetings.
Regular dialogue with the affected communities by senior executives.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 163 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Key risks and uncertainties continued External risks continued KPI Impact Policies and systems Mitigation Risk: Supply routes Total Due to the remote location of the Stock cover policies Utilisation of local partners and shareholder groups operations the disruption with minimum levels knowledge of the region.
Buffer stocks return of supply routes may cause delays set for operations.
performance with construction and ongoing Commitment to Alternative supply routes tested and mine activities.
Financial risks Risk: Production and capital cost control Cash cost Failure to control cash costs Budgeting and Comprehensive budgeting process per ounce.
per ounce will result in reduced reporting processes.
encompassing all expenditure Capital profits.
Failure or inability to Project approval approved by the board.
Executive expenditure monitor capital expenditure process.
Capital approval for all major expenditure and and cost and progress of capital projects expenditure policy.
Commitment management resulting in financial losses and and expenditure incurred made with targets.
Review of Return expenditure against budget on regular on capital basis and reporting to the board and employed.
Risk: Insufficient liquidity, inappropriate financial strategy and inability to access funding from global credit and capital markets Liquidity The group may be required to Financial strategy, The board closely monitors the groups profile seek funding from the global cash forecasting operational performance and cash credit and capital markets to and management.
flows against plan, along with a fivedevelop its operations and Capital forecasting year forecast.
This assists the board projects.
The recent weaknesses and monitoring.
in understanding the variety of risks in those markets could adversely facing the group and the likelihood affect the groups ability to obtain that future external funding might be financing and capital resources required.
This advanced understanding required by the business.
of the cash requirements of the group allows the board to manage the risks of sourcing funding in difficult market conditions.
The group limits exposure on liquid funds through a treasury policy of minimum counterparty credit ratings, counterparty settlement limits and exposure diversification.
Risk: In-country tax regimes Taxation Failure to adapt to changes in Use of experts to The board regularly monitors tax related fines tax regimes and regulations may review changes in positions and changes in conjunction or penalties result in fines, financial losses and legislation and tax with management and where necessary corporate reputational damage.
The chief executive Failure to react to tax notifications meetings with officer and chief financial officer, along from authorities could result in government officials.
with in-country executives, regularly financial losses or the seizure Review of regulatory engage with tax authorities and of assets.
Inability to enforce filings to ensure governments to address the impact of legislation over tax or incorrectly compliance.
any proposed changes to taxation or applied legislation could result fiscal regimes.
Where necessary the in lengthy arbitration and loss of company will seek resolution through profits or company assets.
Operational risks Risk: Sustained resource and exploration failure Resources The groups mining operations Resources and The group publishes its resources and and reserves may yield less gold under reserves committee.
reserves calculations based on gold actual production conditions Resources and prices which are lower than the current than indicated by its gold reserves policy.
Review at committee reserves figures, which are Adherence to and board level of the gold price during estimates based on a number of industry standards.
the year as well as any changes to the assumptions, including mining cost of production.
Close monitoring and recovery factors, production and reconciliation of resource to mined costs and gold price.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 164 KPI Impact Policies and systems Mitigation Risk: Environmental, health, safety and security incident No significant Failure to maintain environmental Environmental, Formal safety system in place.
and or health and safety health, safety and Recording and certification of training.
Lost Time standards resulting in a significant security policies.
Reporting procedures in place with Injury environmental or safety incident Environmental, breaches reported to the executive Frequency or deterioration in safety incident health, safety and committee if necessary on a weekly Rates.
rates or deterioration in safety security team.
basis and quarterly reporting to the performance standards resulting Monitoring system of board.
Leadership accountability in loss of life or significant loss of incidents.
Ebola crisis for incidents throughout the group time and disruption or damage to committee.
Ebola by setting of environmental, health operations.
A lack of preparedness and Use of external experts in respect safe-guarding in relation to the of environmental, health, safety and outbreak of Ebola in the countries security matters.
A dedicated Ebola and the local communities within crisis committee is in place actively which the group operates in could monitoring developments in relation to result in disruption to operations.
Ebola outbreak preparedness in place at all sites including: specialised Ebola training for medical staff, designated Ebola quarantine areas and equipment, screening of all personnel at entry and exit points, and emergency procedures in place should a suspected case arise.
Risk: Risks associated with underground mining Ore tonnes The groups underground projects Annual business plan.
Assistance with the underground produced.
at the Loulo gold mine in Mali Monthly reporting.
operations from a third party mining Cost per and at the Kibali gold mine in the Annual strategic contractor.
Democratic Republic of Congo review.
Dedicated executive team and monthly review of are subject to the risks associated owner mining team in performance against budget.
Board review of actual performance against with underground mining which place at operations.
may affect the profitability of the plan on a continuous basis.
Established owner mining team at the Loulo gold group.
The group is anticipating to transition from contractor mine.
Comprehensive underground mining business and operational plans in to owner mining at the Loulo gold mine in Mali and therefore place which include a detailed transition plan.
Business plans and performance the group may be subject to the risks associated with this are actively reviewed and managed by the executive committee.
The changeover to owner mining will include significant capital requirements and may affect the production levels and profitability of the operation.
The owner mining model may not yield the same performance and efficiencies as has historically been achieved.
Strategic risks Risk: Lack of identification of new exploration targets Resources Lack of identification of new Exploration Continuous management, review and and reserves exploration targets may lead to project pipeline monitoring of the exploration targets by statement a loss of revenue and an inability and evaluation management and board including use to grow and meet strategic policies.
Long term of the resource triangle which identifies objectives.
Exploration and business strategy the number of exploration targets and development are costly activities and investment in the stage of development of an asset.
with no guarantee of success, but exploration activities.
Regular review of exploration activities by are necessary for future growth of executive committee.
Board review of the group.
exploration targets on a quarterly basis.
Risk: Failure to attract and retain key staff and poor succession planning Staff turnover The loss of key staff, the lack of Succession planning.
Executive team conducts formal 360 internal succession planning and HR policies, training reviews of teams against performance the failure to attract appropriate and development of measures.
Communication staff may cause short term staff.
mechanisms in place to ensure disruption to the business and grievances are reported and resolved.
Executive and employee incentive schemes in place.
Board review of manpower situation on a continuous basis, which includes review of market trends and skills analysis, as well as approval from board for action to be taken where gaps have been identified.
