Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Addressing our risks Risk Potential impact Regulatory and tax risk Regulation Adverse regulatory changes in legislation continue to represent a Regulatory changes could increase the cost significant risk.
Changes in political and social attitudes to gambling in of doing business.
our key markets and negative publicity surrounding the gambling industry could inuence regulators perception of gambling and could lead to increased gambling regulation.
Taxation Adverse change in scal legislation continues to be a significant risk.
Any increases in the levels of taxation We are subject to gambling taxation and levies in Great Britain and the or levies to which we are subject, or the other countries in which we operate.
From December we will also be required implementation of any new taxes or levies to pay UK Remote Gaming Duty 2014, a point of consumption tax for remote to which we will be subject, could have a digital gaming.
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Operational risk New online gaming platform transition and implementation The Group is in the course of planning to replace its online gaming platform, This project is a key strategic enabler, so any which is of significant strategic importance to the Group.
This will be the failures in the delivery of the project risk having single largest IT project that it has undertaken in recent years.
The key risks an adverse effect on the ability to optimise the for this project include failure to: a select the optimum supplier: b specify digital platform and its associated business, correctly the Groups requirements with the result that the platform is not consequently impacting profitability.
t for purpose: c define clearly the governance structure for the project: d deliver the project on time and on budget: e manage adequately the transition from the existing platform: and f provide for an appropriate exit strategy.
Volatility of gaming win Win percentages for gambling activities can vary over a short period of time, Gaming win directly impacts profitability.
although they will stabilise over a longer period.
The business is also vulnerable to the potential impact of a small number of customers who can create volatility from the level of their gaming win.
22 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 For more information see pages: 16 Our strategy 28 Operating review 51 Corporate governance Mitigation Further information We participate actively in trade bodies presentations to Government 28 Operating review and opposition parties.
As we have done in previous years, during the 42 Tax fact le period under review, we have arranged key stakeholder familiarisation visits to some of our sites in order that stakeholders can have an opportunity to see our businesses in operation.
This enables stakeholders to gain a better understanding of the positive effect of our business activities, including the provision of a safe environment within which adults can enjoy gambling, the creation of employment and the generation of revenues for the Exchequer.
An update on Ranks approach to regulatory and scal reform can be 42 Tax fact le found at www.
pdf or by written request to the company secretary.
The project is in its planning stages and is engaging experienced 28 Operating review personnel to manage the schedule, budget and deliverables.
A governance structure is being developed and roles and responsibilities agreed.
Professional procurement and project management approaches have also been selected and implemented to provide structure for the key activities of the project.
Gaming limits are actively used to manage the exposure of the 28 Operating review business at all times.
Programmes are in place to manage high staking VIP customers through a dedicated VIP team and reward programmes exist to manage and incentivise the loyalty of these important customers to encourage play over longer periods.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 23 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Potential impact Loss of licences Ranks gaming licences are fundamental to its operation.
In the British The loss of licences could have an adverse effect venues part of the business there is a requirement to hold an operators on our business and profitability and prevent us licence from the Gambling Commission the body responsible for regulating from providing gambling services.
commercial gambling in Great Britain in respect of each of the licensed activities undertaken.
Additionally, it is necessary to hold premises licences from the relevant local authority in which each venue is situated, one for gambling activities and one for the sale of alcohol.
Our UK customer facing transactional websites require a licence from the Alderney Gambling Control Commission, the body responsible for the regulation of eGambling in the States of Alderney where our remote gambling operations are based.
Additionally, with effect from 1 October 2014, an operators licence for our remote operations will be required from the Gambling Commission.
Our operations in Spain and Belgium are also subject to licensing requirements in the jurisdictions and local areas in which they operate.
External events Customers may be prevented or deterred from accessing our clubs due to This could have an adverse effect on our factors such as extreme weather, illness or disease epidemics, terrorist threats, business and profitability.
As reported in our strikes and public transport system failures.
2013 14 half year results, the hot weather in July 2013 adversely affected our results.
Business continuity and disaster recovery Due to the venues based nature of much of the business, the Groups If business continuity and disaster recovery significant reliance on technology, and the criticality of staff in serving plans failed to operate successfully the business customers and running the business, serious disruptive events such as would experience delays in recovering critical building re, pandemic or serious technology failure may cause an revenue generating activities or operational interruption to the ability to operate elements of the business if business processes, such as financial reporting, causing continuity and disaster recovery plans failed to operate successfully.
both financial and reputational damage.
Wage rise ination We employ a large number of employees at or just above the minimum Changes generating significant employment wage.
significant increases to the national minimum wage or other cost ination could negatively impact the significant changes to employment regulation could have an adverse Groups profitability.
impact on the Groups results.
Information technology risk IT outsourcing transition and implementation Rank is in the process of outsourcing certain of its IT services including Issues with the provision of core IT services may helpdesk, desktop support, server administration and network operations.
affect the smooth operation of business activities There are inherent risks in undertaking a project of this nature and and consequently revenue.
importance, including supplier selection, implementation, the impact on employee morale and retention during the consultation and transition periods, and effective communication with the supplier.
Reliance on technology The Group is highly dependent on complex technology and advanced If our prevention measures for technology information systems, with many interfaces and a significant number of attacks should fail our reputation may be separate suppliers.
The pace of business change and development means harmed and customers deterred from using that IT changes such as new software coding, systems enhancements and our services, which may in turn have a material new software application integrations are undertaken continually and adverse effect on our financial performance.
consequently these systems are inherently vulnerable to experiencing Failures in service provision could also render malfunctions, failures, or cyber attacks such as viruses or hacker intrusion.
the Group unable to serve customers during Comprehensive technology resilience and systems protection measures such service interruptions, again having an are in place but it is difficult to detect all threats and vulnerabilities in adverse effect on revenue and profit.
order to prevent all service interruptions and problems.
24 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Mitigation Further information Rank has a dedicated compliance function that is independent of 51 Corporate governance operations and a separate internal audit function that is independent of both operations and the compliance function.
Rank maintains a strong and open relationship with the Gambling Commission.
Since entering the online gaming market, Rank has worked hard to build a similarly strong and open relationship with the Alderney Gambling Control Commission.
Whilst these matters are outside our direct sphere of inuence, we continue to work hard to better prepare ourselves for such eventualities, particularly in terms of co-ordinating with our digital businesses and making sure that employees can get to work.
A Group business continuity plan is in place and regularly reviewed.
Departmental plans are required for all critical departments and premises, and managed by the director of security.
IT plans in particular are being continually reviewed in light of the transfer of risk being experienced as part of the IT outsourcing project.
Rank maintains continual monitoring of the regulatory environment 35 Operating responsibly to ensure that changes are identied and prepared for as early as possible.
The formal supplier selection process was audited by the Groups 35 Operating responsibly internal audit function and was found to have been properly conducted.
A supplier has been selected who has extensive experience in similar transition projects.
Knowledge transfer plans are in place to mitigate any issues with losing existing employees, and alternative job roles have been made available where suitable to help manage morale and retention.
In September 2013, a chief information officer started with the 18 Our future priorities Group and he has also implemented a security improvement programme which is underway, including measures such as enhancing the existing information security team with additional expert staff and adding a further range of detective and preventative measures to improve the security of technology based assets.
The IT outsourcing currently being conducted also adds to the resources for providing business support and resilience around key systems.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 25 Strategic report Str Str Str S Str St Str Str Str Str Str tr t tr ra a a a a at at at at ate ate a a ateg gi gic gic gic gic gic gic g r repor por ort t t t t t t t t t t Dec 13 Refurbishment completed Major refurbishments at Leicester and St Giles casinos were completed.
These two venues were part of the acquired estate from Gala Coral where we invested 17.8m in the year.
26 26 26 2 2 26 2 26 26 26 2 26 26 6 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 The The The The T Th Th Th Th Th Th h h h R R Ra Ra R Ra ank nk nk k Gro Gro Gro Gro ro roup up up P P Plc Plc Plc Pl Plc Plc Plc P P P c c c c c: A : A :A : Annu nnu nnu nnu nnu nnu n n u u u ual al al al a al l Rep Rep Rep Rep Rep Re ort or ort ort t an an an an n n n n nd F d F dF d Fina ina in ina nan nci nci nci n nci c al al al l l l l St Sta Sta Sta S Sta atem tem te tem em e ent ent ent e e e t t t t t ts 2 s 2 s2 s 2 s 2 s 2 s s s 2014 01 0 014 01 0 01 014 014 01 1 14 4 4 4
