Other Information Our Relationships and Principal Operating Risks challenges in enforcing or extending our current intellectual property Water scarcity protections, or any protections we may obtain in future, in the same Water is vital for the making of raw and packaging materials, manner as in more developed regions such as the United States and manufacturing and use of many of our products.
While water is plentiful is European Union.
We have obtained patent protection for a variety of our some regions, it is increasingly scarce in others.
Similar to the effects of intellectual property, including the composition of some of our products climate change, which are interconnected with water availability, water such as detergent and certain devices such as air freshener products.
scarcity could affect the Groups ability to source materials, make and Certain countries may adopt measures to facilitate competition within their deliver relevant products for our consumers.
As with carbon, the Group markets from generic manufacturers, and refuse to recognise patent has developed an industry leading approach to understanding the water protection.
Additionally, expiry of our patents may increase competition impacts of our products lifecycle.
Our approach not only looks at total and pricing pressures, and adversely impact our sales revenue, if generic water used across each lifecycle stage but also takes into account water products in the same or similar product class were to emerge.
This helps us prioritise efforts to drive water use efficiency.
similarly impacted if competitors lose patent protection in a product class in which we compete.
restricted Substances list RB has been monitoring and reviewing ingredients for the past 13 years We may face challenges to our intellectual property rights from third and has been carrying out a range of ingredients removal and restriction parties, who allege that we are infringing on their rights.
If we are unable programmes outlined in our Restricted Substances List formerly our to successfully defend against allegations of infringement, we may face Global Ingredients Guidelines.
Our objective is to continually improve various sanctions, including injunctions, monetary sanctions for past the environmental, safety and sustainable profile of our products, by infringement, product recalls, alterations to our intellectual property, systematically removing specific ingredients from product formulae and products, and or packaging, which could result in significant expense and packaging device component specifications.
Our Restricted Substances List negative publicity, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial combines regulatory, sustainability and safety requirements for generic condition and results of operations.
ingredient groupings, plus specific directions on the use or the prohibition of use of specific raw materials ingredients to assist formulators and Sustainability and risk management other Company employees in the development and marketing of products The Board has identified and assessed the range of sustainability and that meet these commitments.
associated reputational risks and concluded that there are limited material risks to the Groups long and short-term value arising from sustainability Supply Chain responsibility and human rights matters, other than potential risks common to similarly sized businesses Most product, component and raw material supply chains present a operating in its industry sectors and with similarly well-known brands.
number of potential reputational risks relating to: labour standards: health, safety and environmental standards: raw material sourcing: and the social, The Group focuses on a number of sustainability topics, including but not ethical and environmental performance of third party manufacturers and limited to: other suppliers.
The Groups Global Manufacturing Standard for responsible production GMS mandates minimum requirements regarding Climate change these issues, in line with international guidelines, for the Groups own The effects of climate change could disrupt the Groups supply chain manufacturing sites, third party manufacturers and suppliers.
In addition, by affecting the Groups ability to source raw materials, manufacture the Groups Responsible Sourcing of Natural Raw Materials Policy outlines products and distribute products.
The Group has taken a leadership minimum requirements for natural raw materials used in RBs products and position with regard to its products total carbon footprint, by seeking to packaging, in line with the Groups policy that these materials are sourced understand, measure and reduce the GHG emissions generated by all responsibly and with zero deforestation.
Management processes and stages in the product lifecycle for its global product portfolio and including controls in place include Group, area and regional monitoring and amongst other things: the raw and packaging materials provided by its assessment of compliance with the GMS, natural raw material and other suppliers: the Groups own direct manufacturing and other operations: requirements.
transportation of both raw materials and finished products: the retail sale of its products: consumers use of its products: and the disposal recycling health & Safety of those products and their packaging.
Accidents caused through a failure of the Groups safety management systems could potentially lead to loss of life for one or more of the Due to the Groups industry sectors and product categories the GHG Groups employees.
The Group maintains an external certification to emissions originating from energy use at its direct operations are of OHSAS 18001 for the Groups management of health and safety issues medium-to-low impact in comparison to those of other similarly sized and a programme covering manufacturing sites, warehouses, distribution companies, as assessed for example in recent reports of the independent centres and laboratories.
Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, www.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 132
