Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Governance report Directors Remuneration report continued The Remuneration Policy Component Purpose link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance framework This Remuneration Policy, determined by the Redrow Remuneration Committee the Committee, will be effective following Pension To provide a market Individuals are eligible to The maximum DC contribution N A shareholder approval at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
competitive element of participate in the Companys cash supplement in respect of fixed remuneration for Defined Contribution DC a financial year is 20% of Policy Table for Executive Directors retirement planning.
pension scheme or receive base salary.
Component Purpose link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance framework a pension allowance Base salary To provide a market Salaries are determined by the There is no prescribed maximum N A cash supplement.
competitive element Committee taking into account salary.
Any salary increases will Executive Directors who are of fixed remuneration all relevant factors such as: normally be in line with those of members of the Companys to attract and retain the size and complexity of the wider workforce.
Defined Benefit DB pension leaders of the required the Company, the scope and The Committee has discretion to scheme will continue to receive calibre to deliver the responsibilities of the role, award larger increases where it benefits under the terms of that strategy.
the skills and experience of considers this appropriate, such scheme.
There will be no new the individual, and performance as to reflect for example : entrants or accrual of future in role.
benefits under the DB scheme.
a significant change in the The Committees assessment size and complexity of the Annual A variable pay The Committee determines 100% of salary Performance is assessed against of the competitive market Company: bonus opportunity which participation levels each year.
key financial and operational positioning of base salaries is motivates and rewards Targets are set by the performance measures linked to based on consideration of an increase in scope and annual performance and Committee at the start of the the delivery of the strategy and market data from UK companies responsibility of the role, delivery of the strategy relevant financial year and are shareholder value determined of similar size and complexity, or a change in role: on an annual basis.
assessed following the year end.
each year by the Committee.
and companies in the housean Executive Director being building sector.
Deferral aligns reward A portion currently 50% of any The current performance moved to market positioning with long term value bonus earned will be deferred measures are disclosed on Salaries are normally reviewed over time: and of Redrow shares.
into Redrow shares, which are pages 68 and 69 of the Annual annually, with any changes an Executive Director falling awarded in the form of nil-cost Remuneration Report.
effective at the start of the below competitive market options which vest after a period financial year.
Currently, discretion to adjust the measures Salaries effective from 1 July half of the deferred shares vests and or weightings in future years 2014 are shown on page 69 of the after one year and half after two to reflect prevailing financial, Annual Remuneration Report.
years, subject to continued strategic and operational employment.
Benefits To provide a market Benefits may include: a company Benefit provision, for which there N A objectives of the business or of competitive benefits car or equivalent cash is no prescribed monetary Following exercise of a vested the individual.
However, a package to support the allowance, private medical maximum, is set at an deferred share award, minimum of 50% of the total Director in fulfilling insurance, permanent health appropriate level for the specific participants will be entitled to will always be based on key their role.
insurance, fixed term group nature and location of the role.
receive an amount equal to the financial measures.
income protection and a aggregate of any dividends Participation in all employee The Committee has discretion death in service benefit.
which they would have been share plans is subject to to adjust the level of pay out if entitled to receive as a Executive Directors may also statutory limits.
the outcome from a formulaic shareholder during the period participate in all-employee share assessment does not between the grant and plans on the same basis as other appropriately reflect underlying satisfaction of the award.
In future years, the Committee The Committee has discretion retains the discretion to change to include, where it considers the deferred amount and or it appropriate to do so, other lengthen the deferral period.
benefits to reflect specific individual circumstances, such Where appropriate, the as housing, relocation, travel, Committee may determine or other expatriate allowances.
that deferral is in the form of an equivalent cash award which in all other respects mirrors the terms of the deferred share awards.
Clawback provisions apply to both the cash and deferred elements see pages 64 and 65.
62 63 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014
