Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Governance report Directors Remuneration report continued Choice of performance measures and target setting Component Purpose link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance framework For the annual bonus and LTIP, performance measures are chosen which help to drive and reward the achievement of the Groups Long Term Designed to motivate Awards may be made under the The maximum award which The LTIP is based on strategy and also provide alignment between employees and shareholders.
The Committee reviews measures each year to ensure Incentive and reward long-term Redrow plc 2014 Long Term may be granted in respect of performance measures aligned they remain appropriate and reflect the future strategic direction of the Group.
Plan LTIP performance and Incentive Plan LTIP subject a financial year will normally to the creation of long-term delivery of the strategy, to approval of the LTIP from not exceed 100% of salary.
shareholder value, measured Targets for each performance measure are set by the Committee with reference to internal plans and external expectations.
and provide alignment shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
over a performance period of at Performance is measured on a sliding scale so that incentive payouts increase pro-rata for levels of performance in between the However, in exceptional with Redrow least three years.
The current threshold and maximum performance targets.
Awards are normally in the circumstances only, the shareholders.
performance measures are: form of nil-cost options and Committee may make awards Differences in pay policy for employees and Executive Directors vest subject to the satisfaction of up to 200% of salary.
50% based on earnings per The principles applied to the remuneration of Executive Directors are essentially the same as those for the Company.
The difference of performance conditions share EPS : and between pay for Executive Directors and employees is that for Executive Directors the variable pay element forms a greater measured over a period of 50% based on return on proportion of the overall package and the total remuneration opportunity is higher to reflect the increased responsibility of the role.
capital employed ROCE The Committee may also While remuneration practices vary across the full employee population, they are based on the same broad principles which underpin For threshold performance, 20% determine that awards are made the policy for Executive Directors set out above.
For example: of the maximum vests.
in the form of conditional share Remuneration packages should be sufficient to attract and retain the calibre of talent necessary to deliver the strategy for awards or as an equivalent The Committee retains shareholders: cash award which in all other discretion to include additional respects mirrors the terms of or alternative financial A significant number of Group employees are eligible to participate in bonus or incentive arrangements designed to drive a shared the LTIP.
performance measures and or responsibility for delivering performance for shareholders: adjust the weightings in future Clawback provisions apply years to reflect prevailing Redrow operates a number of share incentive plans to encourage employee share ownership and align employees with the see page 65. strategic or operational interests of shareholders.
The deferred bonus plan is cascaded to senior management.
All employees are entitled to participate in Awards under the 2014 LTIP may objectives of the business the Save As You Earn SAYE share option plan under which employees are granted options and encouraged to save in order to incorporate the right to receive aligned with shareholder invest in Company shares: and in cash or shares the aggregate value creation.
value of dividends paid on vested All employees are eligible to participate in the defined contribution pension scheme.
Performance conditions shares between the vesting date applicable to 2014 LTIP awards Executive shareholding guidelines and the date on which the may be amended if an event Under the shareholding guidelines, Executive Directors are expected to build and retain a shareholding in the Group at least awards are satisfied, on such occurs which causes the basis as the Committee may equivalent to 100% of base salary.
The expected level of shareholding should be met within five years of appointment to the Board.
Committee to consider that an determine, which may assume amended performance condition Clawback the reinvestment of these would be more appropriate and For awards under the annual bonus plan including deferred share awards made in respect of the 2015 financial year onwards and dividends in shares on a not materially less difficult cumulative basis.
awards under the 2014 LTIP, the Committee has discretion to claw back awards in the event of a material misstatement of the to satisfy.
Companys audited financial results or employee misconduct.
Dividend amounts are not paid on any awards until such time as In such circumstances, at any time prior to the fifth anniversary of the payment of any cash bonus or vesting of a deferred bonus the performance conditions are LTIP award, the Committee has discretion to: achieved and shares vest.
reduce, cancel or impose further conditions on outstanding deferred bonus LTIP awards: or Where an individual waives any current or future right or entitlement to a remuneration payment or other benefit which he would require the participant to repay in cash or shares some or all of the value delivered from a deferred bonus LTIP awards: and or otherwise be eligible to receive under any of the components set out in the Policy Table above, the Committee may determine that a charitable donation, which is, in its opinion, equivalent to the value of that payment or benefit, may be made by the Company.
require the participant to repay some or all of any cash bonus received.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any Where a charitable donation has been made in accordance with the Remuneration Policy, clawback will not apply.
discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Remuneration Policy For deferred bonus plan awards granted in previous years, if a participants gross misconduct has resulted in the material misstatement set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the Remuneration Policy came into effect or ii at a time of the Group accounts or the accounts of one of its members, any unexercised awards will lapse immediately and the participant when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in will forfeit any shares previously acquired under awards made under that plan.
consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee agreeing awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time Corporate events the award is granted.
Awards under the deferred bonus plan, 2004 LTIP and 2014 LTIP will normally vest early in the event of a takeover or winding-up of the Company and, in the case of the 2004 LTIP and the deferred bonus plan, if the Company goes into administration or a voluntary Prior to the effective date of this Remuneration Policy, long-term incentive awards were granted under the Companys 2004 LTIP.
arrangement is proposed with its creditors.
In these circumstances, deferred bonus awards vest in full: the 2014 LTIP awards vest Awards have been granted in the form of nil-cost options or equivalent cash-settled awards with vesting being dependent on taking into account the relevant performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, time pro rating to reflect performance conditions.
The number of shares or notional shares subject to awards and the performance conditions are set out the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed: and the 2004 LTIP awards vest, unless the Committee determines in the Annual Remuneration Report.
The performance conditions applicable to these awards may be amended if the Committee otherwise, to the extent the performance conditions have been satisfied, time pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the performance reasonably considers it would be a fairer measure of performance or it would be in accordance with the conditions terms.
Subject period that has elapsed.
Alternatively, awards may be rolled over for equivalent awards in a different company.
to approval by shareholders of the 2014 LTIP, it is not anticipated any further awards will be granted under this plan.
Awards granted under this plan are not subject to recovery arrangements.
If the Company is or is likely to be affected by a demerger, special dividend, delisting or other event which in the Committees opinion, may affect the current or future value of the Companys shares, the Committee may allow some or all of the awards to vest.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Remuneration Policy for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative The extent to which 2014 LTIP awards vest in these circumstances will be calculated on the same basis as set out above for a takeover.
purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval.
The terms of awards may be a in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital, delisting, special dividend or distribution, demerger or other event which may in the Committees opinion, affect the current or future value of the Companys shares, adjusted or b amended in accordance with the plan rules.
64 65 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Governance report Directors Remuneration report continued The service agreements provide for formal notice to be served to terminate the agreement, by either the Company or the Executive Illustration of Remuneration Policy Director, with the required period of notice shown in the table.
The agreements do not include any provisions for pre-determined The charts below illustrate the potential value of the remuneration packages for the Executive Directors under the following compensation for early termination.
The Committee may terminate service agreements immediately by making a payment in lieu scenarios no share price growth is assumed : of notice consisting of base salary, benefits and pension for the unexpired period of notice.
At the discretion of the Committee, Minimum reflects fixed pay only base salary and pension contributions as at 1 July 2014 and benefits included using the this payment may be made as instalments over the period, subject to a duty to mitigate, or as a lump sum.
disclosed values for the year ended 30 June 2014.
For future appointments, it is the Committees policy that notice periods will normally be 12 months from both the Director and the Target reflects fixed pay, target bonus 50% of salary and LTIP awards vesting at threshold i. e. 20% of salary.
Company, and that payments in lieu of notice will comprise no more than base salary, benefits and pension only over the unexpired period of notice.
Maximum reflects fixed pay, maximum bonus 100% of salary and maximum LTIP awards 100% of salary.
The Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment are detailed in formal letters of appointment as shown in the table below.
Each Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Executive Chairman appointment is for a fixed initial period of three years although this term is terminable upon either party giving three months notice.
John Tutte Barbara Richmond Steve Morgan Letter of appointment 000 000 000 2,000 1,200 1,600 Name Position Engagement date Dated 1,800 1,744 1,408 Alan Jackson Deputy Chairman and 19 08 09 17 09 13 1,400 1,000 991 1,600 Senior Independent Director 1,200 31% 1,400 33% 800 Debbie Hewitt Non-Executive 19 08 09 17 09 13 31% 1,000 1,200 Nick Hewson Non-Executive 01 12 12 01 12 12 1,042 807 1,000 600 800 595 10% 11% 31% 10% 33% 31% 800 Policy on payments following directors termination of service 26% 600 29% 26% 664 400 381 600 484 On termination, the Committees objective is to find an outcome which is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, 400 taking into account the specific circumstances and performance of the individual, as well as any relevant contractual obligations and 400 200 incentive plan rules.
100% 64% 38% 100% 64% 38% 200 100% 60% 34% 200 As described in the section above, contractual payments in lieu of notice would be limited to salary and contractual benefits and 0 0 0 may be made in instalments subject to mitigation.
Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum The Committee has discretion to make a payment under the annual bonus in respect of the year of leaving where an individual is Approach to recruitment remuneration designated a good leaver as described below.
In such circumstances, the maximum bonus opportunity would normally be On appointment of a new Executive Director, the Committee would seek to offer a remuneration package which can secure reduced pro-rata to reflect the portion of the year served.
Any payment would remain subject to performance against the original individuals with the necessary skills and experience to lead the business and deliver the strategy.
At the same time, the Committee targets and, if practicable, would be assessed and paid in cash as part of the normal year end assessment process.
would intend to pay no more than it believes is necessary to facilitate such recruitment.
Outstanding awards under the deferred bonus plan and the LTIP would be treated in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
Under Executive Directors would be appointed on to the remuneration package set out in the Policy Table for Executive Directors.
Salaries these rules, if the participant leaves as a good leaver, then the treatment of outstanding awards will be as follows: would typically be set at an appropriately market competitive level to reflect skills and experience, although, if appropriate, the Committee may set salaries towards the lower end of the market range to allow future salary progression to reflect performance Deferred bonus.
Nil-cost options will be exercisable for a period of six months following the date of cessation.
Options will be in the role.
In accordance with the Policy Table, the Committee also has discretion to include other benefits such as housing or exercisable in full unless for awards made in respect of 2015 and subsequent financial years other than in the case of death the relocation benefits, if relevant to reflect specific individual circumstances.
The maximum level of variable remuneration which Committee exercises discretion to reduce the awards pro-rata to reflect the extent to which the vesting period had elapsed at the may be awarded excluding any compensatory awards referred to below would be as set out in the Policy Table.
date of cessation: and Where an individual forfeits outstanding incentive awards with a previous employer, the Committee may offer compensatory awards to LTIP.
Awards will normally continue to the original vesting date although the Committee may determine that awards vest facilitate recruitment.
These awards would be in such form as the Committee considers appropriate taking into account all relevant factors following cessation.
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, awards be reduced pro-rata to reflect the extent to which including the form, expected value, anticipated vesting and timing of the forfeited awards.
The value of any compensatory awards would be the performance period has elapsed at the date of cessation.
The Committee will decide the extent to which the award vests in no higher, in the opinion of the Committee, than the value forfeited.
While cash may be included in the recruitment package to reflect the these circumstances, taking account of the extent to which the performance condition is satisfied.
If an individual dies, his LTIP forfeiture of cash-based incentive awards, the Committee does not envisage that substantial golden hello cash payments would be offered.
awards will normally vest shortly following his death and his 2014 LTIP awards will only be time pro-rated if the Committee considers it appropriate.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Companys existing share plans.
Share awards may be granted under the Companys LTIP in excess of the limits set out in the Policy Table above to provide compensatory buyout Circumstances in which a participant will be considered a good leaver are: death, ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, awards only which may be subject to any performance conditions the Committee considers appropriate, in accordance with the retirement or the sale of the individuals employing company or business outside of the Group.
If necessary, awards may be granted outside of these plans as currently permitted under the Listing Rules, but within Where an individual leaves the Company for any other reason, deferred bonus and unvested LTIP awards will lapse.
the limits set out in this section.
The Committee retains discretion to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-Executive Director would normally be in line with the structure set out in the existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim Policy Table for Non-Executive Directors.
arising in connection with the termination of a directors office or employment.
The details and rationale for any such payments Service contracts would be disclosed in the Annual Remuneration Report.
The service agreements of the Executive Directors are rolling contracts which were entered into on the dates shown in the table below.
Notice period from Notice period from Name Contract date the Director the Company Steve Morgan 01 01 11 6 months 6 months John Tutte 01 07 14 12 months 12 months Barbara Richmond 18 01 10 6 months 12 months 66 67 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014
