FINANCIAL REVIEW 58 PRINCIPAL RISKS Principal risks risk will not materialise and or adversely affect our business or The Group has established risk management practices that are embedded into the operations of the businesses, based on the financial performance.
Our risk management and internal control Internal Control-Integrated Framework 2013 issued by the processes are described in the Corporate Governance section.
Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Adescription of the business and a discussion of factors affecting Commission COSO.
The principal risks facing the business, performance is set out in the Chief Executive Ofcers report and which have been considered by the Audit Committees and Boards, Business Review.
Financial risks are discussed in the Chief are described below.
While our process is robust and includes Financial Ofcers report and in note 18 to the combined financial consideration of risks that would threaten the Groups business statements.
Our approach to managing environmental and other models and its solvency, it is not possible to identify every risk that non-financial risks is set out in the Business Review and the could affect our businesses, and the actions taken to mitigate the separate Corporate Responsibility Report.
risks described below cannot provide absolute assurance that a EXTERNAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Economy and Demand for our products and services may be Our businesses are focused on professional markets which have market impacted by factors such as the economic generally been more resilient in periods of economic downturn.
conditions environment in the US, Europe and other We deliver information solutions, many on a subscription basis, major economies, and levels of government which are important to our customers effectiveness and funding.
We have extended our position in long-term global growth markets through organic new launches supported by the selective acquisition of small content and data sets.
We continue to dispose of businesses that no longer t our strategy.
Intellectual Our products and services are largely We actively engage in developing and promoting the legal property rights composed of intellectual property content protection of intellectual property rights.
Our subscription delivered through a variety of media.
We rely contracts with customers contain provisions regarding the use of on trademark, copyright, patent and other proprietary content.
We are vigilant as to the use of our content intellectual property laws to establish and and, as appropriate, take legal action to challenge illegal protect our proprietary rights in these distribution sources.
There is a risk that our proprietary rights could be challenged, limited, invalidated or circumvented which may impact demand for and pricing of our products and services.
Data resources A number of our businesses rely extensively We seek as far as possible to have proprietary content.
Where upon content and data from external sources.
content is supplied to us by third parties, we aim to have contracts Data is obtained from public records, which provide mutual commercial benefit.
We also maintain an governmental authorities, customers and active dialogue with regulatory authorities on privacy and other other information companies, including data-related issues, and promote, with others, the responsible competitors.
The disruption or loss of data useof data.
sources, either because of changes in the law or because data suppliers decide not to supply them could adversely affect our products andservices.
Paid Our scientific, technical and medical STM We engage extensively with stakeholders in the STM community to subscriptions primary publications, like those of most of our better understand their needs and deliver value to them.
We are competitors, are published largely on a paid open to serve and are currently serving the STM community under subscription basis.
There is continued debate a broad range of payment models that can sustainably provide in government, academic and library researchers with the critical information tools that they need.
We communities, which are the principal focus on the integrity and quality of research through the editorial customers for our STM publications, and peer review process: we invest in efficient editorial and regarding to what extent such publications distribution platforms and in innovation in platforms and tools to should be funded instead through fees make content and data more accessible and actionable: and we charged to authors or authors funders and or ensure vigilance on plagiarism and the long-term preservation of made freely available in some form after a research findings.
If these methods of STM publishing are widely adopted or mandated, it could adversely affect our revenue from paid subscription publications.
indd 58 06 03 2015 09:08 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 59 STRATEGIC RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Customer Our businesses are dependent on the We are focused on the needs and economics of our customers and acceptance of continued acceptance by our customers of employ user-centred design and customer analytics to provide products ourproducts and services and the value content and innovative solutions that help them achieve better outcomes and enhance productivity.
Failure to meet evolving customer needs could impact demand for our products and consequently adversely affect our revenue.
Competition Our businesses operate in highly competitive We gain insights into our markets, evolving customers needs, the markets, which continue to evolve in potential application of new technologies and business models, responseto technological innovations, and the actions of competitors.
These insights inform our market legislative and regulatory changes, the strategies and operational priorities.
We continuously invest entrance of new competitors and other significant resources in our products and services, and the factors.
Failure to anticipate market trends infrastructure to support them.
could impact the competitiveness of our products and services and consequently adversely affect our revenue.
Acquisitions We regularly make small acquisitions to Acquisitions are made within the framework of our overall strengthen our portfolio.
If we are unable to strategy, which emphasises organic development.
We have a well generate the anticipated benets such as formulated process for reviewing and executing acquisitions and revenue growth and or cost savings for managing the post-acquisition integration.
This process is associated with these acquisitions this could underpinned with clear strategic, financial and ethical criteria.
We adversely affect return on invested capital closely monitor the integration and performance of acquisitions.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Technology Our businesses are dependent on electronic We have established procedures for the protection of our platforms and networks, primarily the technology assets.
These include the development of business failure internet, for delivery of products and continuity plans, including IT disaster recovery plans and back-up services.
These could be adversely affected if delivery systems, to reduce business disruption in the event of a our electronic delivery platforms or networks major technology failure.
experience a significant failure, interruption, or security breach.
Data security Our businesses maintain databases and We have established data privacy and security programmes and information that are accessed online, evolve our programmes in line with emerging threats.
We test and including personal information.
Breaches of re-evaluate our procedures and controls with the aim of ensuring our data security or failure to comply with that personal data is protected and that we comply with relevant applicable legislation or regulatory or legislative, regulatory and contractual requirements.
contractual requirements could damage our reputation and expose us to risk of loss, litigation and increased regulation.
Supply chain Our organisational and operational We select our vendors with care and establish contractual service dependencies structures are dependent on outsourced and levels that we closely monitor, including through key performance offshored functions.
Poor performance or indicators and targeted supplier audits.
We have developed failure of third parties to whom we have business continuity plans to reduce disruption in the event of a major failure by a vendor.
outsourced activities could adversely affect our business performance, reputation and financial condition.
Talent The implementation and execution of our We have well established management development and talent strategies and business plans depend on our review programmes.
We monitor capability needs and ability to recruit, motivate and retain remuneration schemes are tailored to attract and motivate the high-quality people.
We compete globally and best talent available at an appropriate level of cost.
We actively across business sectors for talented seek feedback from employees, which feeds into plans to enhance management and skilled individuals, employee engagement and motivation.
particularly those with technology and data analytics capabilities.
An inability to recruit, motivate or retain such people could adversely affect our business performance.
indd 59 06 03 2015 09:08 FINANCIAL REVIEW 60 PRINCIPAL RISKS FINANCIAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Pensions We operate a number of pension schemes around the We have professional management of our pension world.
Historically, the largest schemes have been local schemes and we focus on maintaining appropriate asset versions of the dened benefit type in the UK, the US and allocation and plan designs.
We review our funding the Netherlands.
The assets and obligations associated requirements on a regular basis with the assistance of with those pension schemes are sensitive to changes in independent actuaries and ensure that the funding plans the market values of assets and the market-related are appropriate.
assumptions used to value scheme liabilities.
Adverse changes to, inter alia, asset values, discount rates or ination could increase future pension costs and fundingrequirements.
Tax Our businesses operate globally and our earnings are We have clear and consistent tax policies and tax matters subject to taxation in many differing jurisdictions and at are dealt with by a professional tax function, supported differing rates.
We seek to organise our affairs in a tax by external tax advisers.
We maintain an open dialogue efficient manner, taking account of the jurisdictions in with the relevant tax authorities and are vigilant in which we operate.
However, tax laws that apply to our ensuring that we comply with tax legislation.
businesses may be amended by the relevant authorities or interpreted differently, which could adversely affect our reported results.
Treasury The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements Our approach to funding and the management of areexpressed in pounds sterling and are subject to financial risks, including interest rate and foreign movements in exchange rates on the translation of the currency exposures, is described in note 18 to the financial information of businesses whose operational combined financial statements.
currencies are other than sterling.
The US is our most important market and, accordingly, significant uctuations in the US dollar exchange rate could signicantly affect our reported results.
Macro economic, political and market conditions may also adversely affect the availability of short and long-term funding, volatility of interest rates, currency exchange rates and ination.
REPUTATIONAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Ethics As a world-leading provider of professional information Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is provided to solutions to the STM, risk & business information, legal, every employee and is supported by training.
It and exhibitions markets we are expected to adhere to encompasses such topics as fair competition, high standards of independence and ethical conduct.
anti-bribery and human rights and encourages open Abreach of generally accepted ethical business and principled behaviour.
We have well established standards could adversely affect our business processes for reporting and investigating instances of performance, reputation and financial condition.
Our major suppliers are required to adopt our Supplier Code of Conduct.
Environmental Our businesses have an impact on the environment, We are committed to reducing these environmental principally through the use of energy and water, waste impacts by limiting resource use and efficiently generation and, in our supply chain, through paper use employing sustainable materials and technologies.
and print and production technologies.
Failure to Werequire our major suppliers and contractors to manage our environmental impact could adversely meetthe same objectives.
We seek to ensure that all affect our reputation.
ourbusinesses are compliant with relevant environmental regulation.
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 2 to 60, has been approved by the Board of Reed Elsevier PLC in accordance with local UK requirements.
By order of the Board Registered Ofce Henry Udow 13 Strand Company Secretary London 25 February 2015 WC2N 5JR 94118 Reed AR p048-060.
