Risk management Given the scale of our business, the Board recognises that, whilst it aims to maximise returns, the nature, scope and potential impact of our key business and strategic risks must be understood and managed.
The successful delivery of Regus strategy parties or terminate risk by ceasing Effective risk management requires depends on our ability to identify and particular activities or operations.
Regus awareness and engagement at all levels manage the risks associated with has zero tolerance of financial and ethics of our organisation.
It is for this reason that our business.
non-compliance and ensures that Health, risk management is incorporated into the Safety, Environmental & Security risks are day-to-day management of our business, Regus business may be impacted by managed to levels that are as low as as well as being reflected in the Groups various risks leading to failure to achieve reasonably practicable.
The Board strategic targets for growth, loss of financial oversees the risk management strategy and standing, cash flow, earnings, return on Whilst overall responsibility for the risk the effectiveness of the Groups internal investment, and reputation.
Not all these management process rests with the Board, control framework.
Risk management is at risks are wholly within the Groups control it has delegated responsibility for assurance the heart of everything we do, particularly and it may be affected by risks which are not to the Audit Committee.
Executive as we look to grow across multiple markets yet manifested or reasonably foreseeable.
management is responsible for designing, around the world.
For this reason, we implementing and maintaining the Effective risk management is critical to conduct risk assessments throughout necessary systems of internal control.
achieving our strategic objectives and the year as part of our business review process and all investment decisions.
protecting our personnel, assets and our A list of key risks is prepared and the Board These activities include: reputation.
Regus therefore has a collectively assesses the severity of each comprehensive approach to risk risk, the likelihood of it occurring and the Monthly business reviews of all countries management, as set out in more detail in strength of the controls in place.
approach allows the effect of any mitigating procedures to be reflected in the final Individual reviews of every new location A critical part of the risk management assessment.
It also recognises that risk investment and all acquisitions.
process is to assess the impact and cannot be totally eliminated at an likelihood of risks occurring so that Annual planning process for all markets acceptable cost and that there are some appropriate mitigation plans can be and Group functions.
risks which, with its experience and after developed and implemented.
due consideration, the Board will choose Annual risk assessment exercise, with For all known risks facing the business, to accept.
six-monthly reviews with participation of Regus attempts to minimise the likelihood all senior managers.
As risk management continues to move up and mitigate the impact.
According to the the agenda, the activity of the Audit nature of the risk, Regus may elect to take or Committee has become more important tolerate risk, treat risk with controls and and increasingly embedded in the mitigating actions, transfer risk to third Groups activities.
Board Defines Regus risk appetite Overall responsibility for risk Assesses effectiveness of internal and tolerance management compliance control systems Audit Committee Reviews effectiveness of internal Monitors progress against internal Approves the annual internal and controls and external audit recommendations external audit plans Senior leadership team Accountable for the design and Accountable for the regular review Contributes to the identification implementation of risk management and appraisal of key risks and assessment of key risks processes and controls General management Responsible for compliance and ensuring that staff are adequately trained Business assurance function Assists management and the Board in conducting risk studies Reviews risk profiles Advises and guides on policies and internal control framework Tests compliance with internal controls 20 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Principal risks Risk Mitigation Progress in 2014 Strategic Lease obligations The single This risk is mitigated in a number of ways: During 2014, the number of flexible greatest financial risk to Regus is leases as a percentage of the total 1 92% of our leases are flexible, meaning that they are represented by the financial increased from 84% to 92%.
At the either terminable at our option within six months and commitments deriving from the end of 2014, we were operating or located in or assignable to a standalone legal entity, portfolio of leases held across 2,269 locations in 850 towns and which is not fully cross guaranteed.
individual centres are sustained by their own Whilst Regus has demonstrated profitability and cash flow.
During the most recent consistently that it has a downturn we were able to negotiate revised terms with fundamentally profitable our partners to reflect downward movements in market business model which works in rates to help recovery.
all geographies, the profitability 2 Around a quarter of our leases with landlords are of centres is impacted by variable in nature, which means that payments to movements in market rents, landlords vary with the performance of the relevant which, in turn, impact the price centre.
In this way the risk to profitability and cash flow at which Regus can sell to of that centre from fluctuations in market rates is its customers.
softened by the consequent adjustment to rental costs.
The fact that the outstanding In a number of cases, we take no risk at all since the lease terms with our landlords lease is signed by a partner who also undertakes all of are, on average, significantly the capital investment and pays us a fixed percentage of longer than the outstanding revenues as well as a share of centre profit.
terms on our contracts with our 3 The sheer number of leases and geographic diversity of customers creates a potential our business reduces the overall risk to our business as mismatch if rentals fall the phasing of the business cycle and the performance significantly, which can impact of the commercial property market often varies from profitability and cash flows.
country to country and region to region.
4 E ach year a significant number of leases in our portfolio reach a natural break point.
The Group has taken a number of actions to mitigate this We increased the number of centres Economic downturn An risk: operating on performance related economic downturn could leases by 33%.
adversely affect the Groups 1 Almost a quarter of our leases are performance related operating revenues thereby to a greater or lesser extent and our rental payments, if We also increased the scale of our reducing operating performance any, vary with revenues earned by the centre.
network by 24% and added 166 new or, in an extreme downturn, result towns and cities.
Our monthly in operating losses.
2 Lease contracts include break clauses when leases can business performance reviews be terminated at our behest.
The Group also looks to provide early warning of any impact stagger leases in locations where we have multiple on our business performance and centres so that we can manage our overall inventory in allow management to react with those locations.
More generally, investment in our management team has also led 3 We review our customer base to assess exposure to a to improved, more responsive particular customer or industry group.
decision-making at a country and 4 The increasing geographic spread of the Groups area level.
network increases the depth and breadth of our business and provides better protection from an economic downturn in a single market or region.
Shifting demand and technology Regus continually invests in R&D to develop new products The Group increased spend on R&D trends Technology and services to increase its competitive advantage, by 21% in 2014. developments are driving protect current revenues and unlock potential new demand for flexible working.
Failure to recognise these could mean Regus product offering is sub-optimal.
com 21 Risk management continued Risk Mitigation Progress in 2014 Financial Exchange rates The principal 1 Given that transactions generally take place in the Overall in 2014 the movement in exposures of the Group are to functional currency of Group companies, the Groups exchange rates had a negative the US dollar and the euro with exposure to transactional foreign exchange risk translation impact and decreased approximately 32.4% of the is limited.
reported revenue, gross profit and Groups revenues being operating profit by 99.7m, 2 Where possible, the Group attempts to create natural attributable to the US dollar 24.4m and 11.4m respectively.
hedges against currency exposures through matching and 14.2% to the euro.
income and expenses, and assets and liabilities, in the During 2014 cross currency swaps Any depreciation or appreciation same currency.
were taken out on 165m of debt of sterling would have an adverse securities to retain the currency 3 The Group, where deemed appropriate, uses currency or beneficial impact to the profile of the Groups external debt swaps to maintain the currency profile of its external debt.
Groups reported financial following the issue of a 210m loan performance and position note which was used to repay respectively.
The Group does not sterling debt on the Groups generally hedge the translation revolving credit facility.
exchange risk of its business results.
Rather, it assumes that shareholders will take whatever steps they deem necessary based on their varied appetites for exchange risk and differing base currency investment positions.
Funding The Group relies on The Group constantly monitors its cash flow and financial During 2014, the Group raised an external funding to support a net headroom development and maintains a 12-month rolling additional 164m by issuing 210m debt position of 138m at the end forecast.
The Group also monitors the relevant financial of debt securities.
The loss of these ratios against the covenants in its facilities to ensure the consisted of 165m of three-year facilities would cause a liquidity risk of breach is being managed.
notes and 45m of five-year notes.
The issue also helped to improve the The Group also stresses these forecasts with downside overall maturity profile of the Groups scenario planning to assess risk and determine potential debt facilities.
Together with the Groups banking The Board intends to maintain a prudent approach to the facility of 320m, committed until Groups capital structure by holding the net debt : Group September 2017, it has 484m of EBITDA leverage ratio below c. 1.5 times.
Part of the annual planning process is a debt strategy and Net debt : EBITDA ratio at 31 action plan to ensure that the Group will have sufficient December 2014 of 0.6 times.
There is funding in place to achieve its strategic objectives.
significant headroom on each of the covenant ratios.
The Group also constantly reviews and manages the maturity profile of its external funding.
During 2014 the Group was accorded Afor long-term debt and A1 for short-term debt by an independent credit rating agency, which makes additional sources of financing potentially available.
Interest rates Operating in a The Group constantly monitors its interest rate exposure During 2014, to take advantage of net debt position, an increase in as part of its monthly Treasury Review.
the low interest rate environment interest rates would increase and to provide certainty of financing As part of the Groups balance sheet management it finance costs.
costs and cash flows over the utilises interest rate swaps.
medium term, the Group has taken out swaps to convert a substantial proportion of its debt from floating to fixed rates.
22 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk management continued Risk Mitigation Progress in 2014 Operational Loss of critical systems The Regus manages this risk through: We undertake regular testing of Groups systems and applications business continuity procedures 1 Business continuity plans.
are housed in a central data to ensure that they are adequate centre.
Should the data centre and appropriate.
2 A detailed service agreement with our external data be impacted as a result of centre provider which incorporates appropriate back-up circumstances outside the procedures and controls.
Groups control there could be an 3 Ensuring appropriate business interruption insurance adverse impact on the Groups is in place.
operations and therefore its financial results.
Fraud Landlord and supplier Regus manages this risk through: and procurement related fraud 1 A rigorous investment approval process to review the proposed deal structure against local market conditions and alternatives.
2 Centralised procurement contracts with suppliers for key services and products.
3 Standardised processes to manage and monitor spend.
4 Strong governance framework and policies on gifts and hospitality, business conduct and bribery and corruption.
5 Regular reviews to monitor effectiveness of controls.
Growth Ensuring demand is there to Regus mitigates this risk by: On aggregate, our new centres support our growth Regus has continue to perform in line with 1 Each investment or acquisition proposal is reviewed and undertaken significant growth to management expectations and are approved by the Investment Committee.
develop local and national delivering attractive returns.
Adding capacity carries 2 The monthly business review process monitors new the risk of creating overcapacity.
centre development against the investment case to Failure to fill new centres would ensure that the anticipated returns are being generated.
create a negative impact on 3 As part of the annual planning process, a growth plan is the Groups profitability and agreed for each country which clearly sets out the cash generation.
Human Resources Ability to recruit at the right level Mitigating actions include: The strengthening of our senior Our ability to increase our management team and country 1 Succession planning discussions are an integral part of management capacity and management teams has been an our business planning and review process.
capabilities through the hiring of ongoing activity over the last year.
experienced professionals not This investment in people is 2 Part of the annual planning process is the Human only supports our ability to delivering a return, reflected in the Resources Plan, and performance against this Plan is execute our growth strategy but reduction of overheads as a reviewed through the year.
also enables us to improve percentage of revenue and the 3 Regular external and internal evaluation of the succession planning throughout strong financial performance of the performance of the Board.
During 2014, we also increased the size and diversity of our Board with the appointment of Nina Henderson.
Training and employee One of the key items in the Human Resources Plan is the During 2014 we successfully engagement As a service Global Induction & Training Plan, which sets out the key recruited and trained approximately based business the strength and objectives for the forthcoming year.
Performance against 3,500 employees, many through the capabilities of our increasingly these objectives is reviewed through the year.
In geographically diverse team are 2014 there were over 283,000 Our employee survey also provides insight into employee critical to achieving our training modules completed.
issues which is then used to improve the Plan.
