34 The table below sets out what we believe to be SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
Each is linked to one or more of our RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES strategic priorities: 1: Strengthen customer relationships 2: Invest to capture growth 3: Operational excellence 4: Shape our future 5: Build a winning organisation The table does not cover all of the risks that the Group may face.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management or deemed to be less material at the date of this report may also have an adverse effect on the Group.
Risk and description Potential impact and key mitigations 2014 2014 Assessment Movement Competitive environment trends Potential impact The risk of adverse commercial impact Adverse business performance, price and volume pressure, on Rexam from customer and competitor adverse terms and margin erosion.
This risk can be driven by Key mitigations dependency on key customers, competitor We continue to focus on value adding service and innovation, activities and behaviours, price and as well as investing in our production capacity and our volume pressure or contract negotiations.
HIGH capabilities to strengthen relationships with our customers Increased and optimise our competitive cost position.
Strategic priorities: 1, 2, 3, 4 During the year, we carried out global bids and negotiations with some of our major customers, implemented a customer and competitor strategy review and analysis, worked to improve our pricing process and focused on cost reduction and efficiency.
Continued economic slowdown Potential impact The risk of economic slowdown and Adverse business performance, price and volume pressure, sluggish recovery in Rexams key markets and eroded customer and consumer confidence.
and its impact upon demand for consumer Key mitigations packaging.
This remains one of the key Rexam continues to manage capital investment closely and risks for the Group.
is focused on maximising utilisation of assets to ensure we align our capacity with volume demand.
Strategic priorities: 1, 2, 3 We use scenario planning and modelling based on potential HIGH Stable upside and downside risk analysis within our strategic planning and annual budgeting and forecasting processes to identify mitigating actions which would be implemented should this risk increase further.
Continued cost improvement measures were implemented during 2014 with ongoing focus on lean initiatives, efficiency savings, supply chain management and innovation see pages 9 and 10.
Financial impact from Potential impact country based instability Social unrest, liquidity issues, currency fluctuations and The risk of political, socioeconomic and lack of availability, trade sanctions affecting our business, legal uncertainties within a country or political instability, war and terrorism, security threat to our region that Rexam operates in and its people and assets.
Our Key mitigations expansion in emerging markets means Emerging market risks are assessed in detail by management that this is a risk area to which we will when considering investment opportunities through due continue to be exposed.
diligence reviews prior to investment and risk assessment during capital evaluation process.
Strategic priorities: 2, 4 HIGH Increased We leverage on the ground market and country intelligence from local management with support from external advisors.
Additionally, business continuity plans are in place at plant, sector and Group level, and these plans were reviewed, benchmarked and tested in 2014.
Preparedness plans have been built for operations in countries facing rapidly changing environments.
Actions to further improve business continuity management were identified during the year and will be implemented going forward.
For update on our operations in Russia, see page 12.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 35 Risk and description Potential impact and key mitigations 2014 2014 Assessment Movement Cyber attack and data security Potential impact Risks of a data security incident which Business interruption, financial losses, loss of confidential could be driven by, for example, cyber data, negative reputational impact and breach of regulations.
attack, virus, or technology failure.
Key mitigations Rexams IT security procedures and processes including mobile Strategic priorities: 4 devices and Cloud services are in place, covering areas around antivirus software, backups, access and password control.
Disaster recovery plans are also in place and these are tested twice a year along with system penetration and vulnerability tests.
In the case of a disaster or technology HIGH failure, there are clear responsibilities between IT and business Stable units to ensure operations can continue during any downtime.
In 2014, an information asset review was completed.
Additionally, we rolled out laptop encryption and standardised and improved access controls to desktops.
The transformation of the global data centre is progressing as planned.
Other ongoing projects are the installation of a vulnerability tool on our network to improve visibility of server operating systems and the implementation of role based restrictions on our key transactions to improve controls to sensitive access.
Aluminium and other Potential impact input costs increases Margin erosion, loss of volumes, loss of competitive Aluminium represents our most advantage against direct competitors or other beverage significant raw material cost, followed by packaging products.
metal premiums, other raw materials, Key mitigations energy and fuel costs.
These costs are The majority of our aluminium ingot costs are charged to driven by market volatility, regulatory our customers on a pass through or back to back hedged changes and requirements, and non pass through basis.
For the remaining aluminium, hedging controllable costs.
strategy and mechanisms are in place to manage the aluminium cost and associated currency exposures.
The HIGH Strategic priorities: 1, 3 Increased conversion cost from ingot to aluminium coil is covered by long term supply contracts.
During the year, there was a significant increase in aluminium premiums due to increasing warehouse queue and availability issues.
The new LME rules on warehouse load out rates were implemented in February 2015, which could normalise premium levels in the longer term.
In Brazil, we have entered into a medium term contract with an energy provider to manage the energy cost and supply exposure as a result of the continuing drought crisis in the country.
36 SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk and description Potential impact and key mitigations 2014 2014 Assessment Movement Business interruption Potential impact Every business faces the potential risk Operational disruption, a significant adverse impact on our of a major disruption to internal facilities ability to meet customer requirements, potential additional or the external supply chain which could contractual liabilities and a consequential impact on be caused by natural disaster, loss or financial performance.
scarcity of supply, industrial disputes, Key mitigations supplier failure, technology failure, There are established business continuity management unplanned outages and physical damage protocols and procedures across the Group, and clarity on as a result of fire or other such event.
responsibilities between Group functions and business units, in the event of disaster.
Ongoing maintenance programmes Strategic priorities: 1, 3, 5 are also in place at manufacturing plants and facilities.
MEDIUM Increased Strong relationships with suppliers enable us to make flexible sourcing arrangements for key supplies and we ensure appropriate levels of inventory are maintained.
Additionally, mechanisms are in place to monitor the financial and operational viability of our key suppliers.
Insurance programmes, reviewed on an ongoing basis, are in place to cover losses associated with business interruption for a stipulated period as a result of property damage or supply failure.
There were no significant changes during 2014. Business units across the Group continued to focus on risk mitigation, including the drawing up, refinement and testing of business continuity and disaster recovery plans.
Tax risks Potential impact In an increasingly complex international Additional tax liabilities, fines and penalties, and tax environment, some uncertainties are reputational impact.
inevitable in estimating our tax liabilities.
Key mitigations We seek to plan and manage our tax affairs efficiently in the Strategic priorities: 4 HIGH Stable jurisdictions in which we operate.
Tax planning will complement and be based around the needs of our operating businesses.
With dedicated internal tax experts and the use of external tax advisors where required, we exercise our judgement in assessing the required level of provision for tax risk and allocate resources appropriately to protect our position.
Changes in consumer tastes, Potential impact nutritional preferences, health Adverse business performance, loss of market share or and environment related concerns business and being substituted by other forms of beverage The risk of changing consumer trends packaging products.
resulting in a shift in demand away from Key mitigations beverage cans or from our customers We continue to monitor and focus on market and consumer MEDIUM products for which Rexam manufactures Stable trends as well as political developments through internal packaging.
Drivers of this risk can include and external business intelligence services and through our lifestyle and taste changes, nutrition and involvement in national and international packaging and health considerations or environmental environmental associations in the jurisdictions in which concerns.
Strategic priorities: 1, 4 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 37 Risk and description Potential impact and key mitigations 2014 2014 Assessment Movement Environmental, fire, Potential impact health and safety Health and safety incident, financial exposure, business The risk of a significant environmental disruption and reputational damage.
contamination, fire or health and safety Key mitigations issue at one of our locations.
We continue to carry out regular environment, health and safety EHS audits in cooperation with internal and external Strategic priorities: 5 specialists to drive best practice.
The audit approach provides the basis for delivering a more sustainable and robust MEDIUM Stable improvement of EHS management systems and performance at all sites and strives for continuous improvement in our key health and safety KPI measures.
During the year, we continued with our fire safety and property protection audit supported and performed by an independent provider, and invested a total of c 5m in fire safety and property protection.
We have also developed a three year world class safety roadmap.
Changes in packaging legislation Potential impact and regulatory environment Changes in packaging legislation and regulation could affect The Group is subject to applicable laws producer responsibility for recycling, recycled content and carbon and regulations in the global jurisdictions footprint, while landfill taxation represents an increasing risk.
Packaging will Key mitigations continue to be a focus for government Rexam continually monitors developments in laws and legislators working within the regulations in the jurisdictions that may affect our business.
This is performed through established and effective membership of relevant trade associations, by direct collaboration with MEDIUM Strategic priorities: 4 Stable governmental and non governmental organisations and through our own efforts which include a legislative risk monitoring tool.
This ensures the best possible chance of shaping a constructive outcome which is not detrimental to Rexam or its stakeholders.
Rexam also focuses on investment in new innovation and technology programmes to ensure continuous enhancements in our packaging products and manufacturing processes.
See also page 10 in relation to our sustainability strategy.
Pension deficit Potential impact Risk relates to cash contributions, charges Adverse financial impact to the Group as a result of a to the income statement and balance pension deficit.
Key mitigations Rexams retirement benefit risk management is overseen by Strategic priorities: 5 the Retirement Benefits Committee RBC which is chaired by the finance director.
The RBC reviews all proposed new MEDIUM Stable undertakings and improvements to retirement benefits.
Managing pension deficit volatility on the balance sheet and general derisking of funded plans, which includes equity, interest rate and inflation risks, are undertaken by pension plan fiduciaries in consultation with the RBC.
Cash contributions are paid to the respective plans to ensure that there are adequate assets to meet the plans obligations.
38 SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk and description Potential impact and key mitigations 2014 2014 Assessment Movement Fraud, bribery and internal Potential impact control failure Financial loss, reputational damage and breach of laws.
The risk of an internal control failure such Key mitigations as a Rexam employee committing fraud The Rexam Code of Conduct provides a framework for all or bribery due to lack of integrity or of our policies at Group, sector and individual businesses.
A Group control framework, setting out key financial controls to be applied across the Group, is in place to ensure Strategic priorities: 5 consistency and further enhance the control environment.
Rexams Raise Your Concern whistle blowing hotline also MEDIUM allows employees to raise any concerns regarding behaviour Stable that does not conform to Rexam policies.
This was reviewed and relaunched during 2014.
During the year, anti fraud and bribery workshops were held across the Group to increase employees awareness and ensure compliance.
Additional workshops will continue to be rolled out in 2015.
New service providers were appointed for the whistle blowing hotline and online compliance training respectively, in order to obtain the required service level in meeting our objectives in these areas.
Funding and other financial risks Potential impact Risks related to the cost and availability Financial exposure due to interest rates, foreign currencies of funds to meet our business needs, and commodities price volatility, and lack of funding to meet movements in interest rates, foreign our requirements.
currency exchange rates as well as Key mitigations commodity prices.
Rexams financial risk management is based upon sound economic objectives and good corporate practice.
Rexam Strategic priorities: 2, 3 MEDIUM negotiates funding requirements in a timely manner ensuring Stable appropriate headroom is secured to mitigate the risk of lack of availability.
Derivative and other financial instruments are used to manage exposures under conditions agreed by the board.
Further details of our financial risks and the way in which we mitigate them are set out in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Counterparty default Potential impact Risk of counterparty failure including, Financial losses, service and supply disruptions.
for example, bank, insurer, customer Key mitigations or supplier.
The continued challenging A range of financial counterparties are used, and we apply macroeconomic environment in certain strict limits determined by qualitative and quantitative measures regions or countries in which Rexam on our exposure to each of them.
The risk of insurer failure MEDIUM Decreased operates requires focus in this area.
is monitored by our insurance broker and reported to Rexam immediately if an issue arises.
Customer credit limits are imposed and their credit risk, as well as suppliers, is reviewed and monitored.
In addition, there are procedures across the Group to manage working capital tightly, including customers overdue debts reporting.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 39 Risk and description Potential impact and key mitigations 2014 2014 Assessment Movement Insufficient talent and Potential impact knowledge capital Performance declines or lack of growth due to lack of Risk of insufficient talent and lack of bench strength.
Key mitigations As part of our focus to build a winning organisation, we Strategic priorities: 5 LOW Stable continue to invest in active talent management, succession planning and the development needs of our employees.
We also carry out an employee survey across the Group approximately every 18 months and review the outcome of the survey to address areas that require improvement.
An additional risk has been added in light of the Ball offer for Rexam.
The transaction may not complete if any regulatory pre condition and or other conditions to which the offer is subject are not satisfied or waived.
Rexam PLC takeover Potential impact The risks associated with Rexam PLC Negotiations with customers and suppliers may prove being taken over by another organisation.
These risks may have a significant impact Potential business interruption due to employee turnover on key relationships with customers, or resignation may consequently lead to loss of valuable suppliers, employees and other stakeholders experience, expertise and business networks.
due to the lack of certainty regarding completion of the transaction and Key mitigations how it will be implemented.
All major customers and suppliers have existing contracts in place and will have senior level interactions to ensure business as usual.
Internally appropriate communication and retention compensation packages will be put in place to enable employee engagement and retention.
External communication with all stakeholders will be managed across the Group in a co-ordinated and consistent manner.
