32 RISK MANAGEMENT RISK OVERVIEW KEY ACTIVITIES DURING 2014 Our Group is exposed to Effective management of risk is essential to Our global volumes grew across the the delivery of our business objectives, to the business in 2014 but the competitive a number of risks that can achievement of sustainable growth and to the environment remained challenging.
have a financial, operational protection of our people, assets and reputation.
Also, there continues to be exposure to commodity prices, metal premiums and and reputational impact.
Risk management is continually evolving, and other costs, as well as the trend towards we have a well established approach to risk global procurement contracts by our A proactive approach to management that is responsive to changes in customers.
These risks were assessed the business and operating environment.
We the management of risk and mitigating actions were put in place ensure that key risks are fully defined and to address and respond to the risk events.
is therefore critical to the mitigating actions are in place to monitor and manage these risks.
We maintain close We continue to work on the success of Rexam.
working relationships between Group functions development of our Enterprise Risk and business units to understand and address Management ERM framework.
Additionally, for benchmarking, we focus of the risk programme in 2014 obtain external input on current and future included the extension of risk based risk trends and concerns.
auditing: completion of a risk maturity survey which gave confirmation of We strive to ensure that risk management is our approach and identified some embedded into day to day business processes opportunities for further development: and operations such that it overlays at all anti fraud and bribery workshops levels of the organisation see page 16.
This throughout the business and business ensures that potential risks are identified at continuity management workshops.
an early stage, escalated as appropriate and We also continued the development mitigations are put in place to manage such of a three year Group world class risks.
Through the risk management process safety roadmap.
and communication, there is a robust periodic risk review involving all functions at Group Additionally, we made improvements level and senior representatives of individual to the risk management system to business units.
We recognise the importance improve efficiency in reporting.
We of risk awareness and of the risk escalation also introduced the concept of risk process, and we continue to cultivate an velocity and appropriate risk ratings, appropriate risk culture in our businesses.
which will be applied to risk reviews from 2015 onwards.
Senior executive management formally review risks and mitigations for the Group 2015 focus and each of the business units biannually.
The focus for Group ERM in 2015 will The review focuses on identifying risks that include business continuity management could significantly impact the business and to ensure resilience, reviewing long term considers in detail the various impacts of the risks with Group Sustainability, developing risks and the mitigations in place.
The Audit new tools for commodity exposures and and Risk Committee see page 57 continues improving our competitive advantage.
to review the overall risk profile of the Group We will continue with our efforts to and validate the risk register, to ensure that the ensure that the people who work in Committee remains effective in discharging our business remain safe.
its responsibility to the board.
The Committee also receives updates on emerging or topical Internal audit has increased its scope risks as part of the review process, including and remit to ensure the effectiveness reviews with our businesses.
Two of the four of our risk mitigation plans and actions regions, South America and North America, and this will be further extended presented their risks and mitigation plans to during 2015. the Audit and Risk Committee in person during the year.
We also regularly assess the risks and monitor the key risk indicators in the light of changes and development around the Groups operating and external environment, and this is reported to the board each month.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 33 REXAM RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS Day to day processes and operations Suppliers, Functions & Macroeconomics Strategic Audit competitors business units & other external planning, assessments, & customers review & risk analysis forecasting & external input & behaviour monitoring budgeting process benchmarking Risk identification Risk assessment Risk mitigation action & monitoring Best practice & risk experience sharing & learning BI-ANNUAL ERM FRAMEWORK REVIEW & REPORTING with senior management and Audit & Risk Committee REXAM RISK MANAGEMENT TOOL HEAT MAP MATRIX Competitive environment trends 1 Continued economic slowdown 2 13 7 Financial impact from 3 country based instability Cyber attack and data security 4 Aluminium and other input 5 14 cost increases 6 Business interruption 7 Tax risks 8 11 3 5 8 Changes in consumer tastes, nutritional preferences, health 2 12 4 6 1 9 related concerns and environment related concerns 10 9 Environmental, fire, health and safety 10 Changes in packaging legislation 15 and regulatory environment 11 Pension deficit 12 Fraud, bribery and internal control failure 13 Funding 14 Counterparty default 15 Insufficient talent and 1 2 3 4 5 knowledge capital Rare Probability Almost certain Risk leadership team, global functions & committees input Risk Impact Major impact Insignificant impact 1 2 3 4 5
