Principal risks and uncertainties The focus on the six value drivers articulated on pages 8 to 10 has been accompanied by a significant review of the principal risks and uncertainties the business faces.
Overview of Rio Tintos risk management framework Our risk management framework recognises that managing risk effectively is an integral part of how we create value, and fundamental to our business success.
The responsibility for identifying and managing risks lies with all of Rio Tintos managers and business leaders.
They operate within the Group-wide framework to ensure that risks are managed within agreed thresholds.
The framework, underpinned by Rio Tintos Risk policy and standard, includes clearlydefined oversight responsibilities for the board of directors and the Executive Committee, supported by the Risk Management Committee.
It also outlines the roles played by central support functions, by Group Risk, and by Group Audit & Assurance to support effective risk analysis and management across Rio Tinto.
This approach reflects a three lines of defence model for the management of risks and controls: First line of defence: ownership of risk by the operations.
Second line of defence: control of risk by Group functions and management committees.
Third line of defence: assurance of our systems by Group Audit & Assurance.
More information on the Groups approach to risk management can be found in the corporate governance section on page 62.
Board of directors and board committees Provides oversight across the risk management process, confirms that managements risk thresholds reflect the level of risk the board is willing to accept in pursuit of strategic objectives and monitors Group-level risks Group Risk Executive Committee Responsible for maintaining Responsible for risk strategy and appropriate risk policy and standard, accepting risks inherent in key providing co-ordination and support investments and in strategic, of Group-level risk management Business risk owners business or annual plans activity and risk reporting Managers across the business are accountable and responsible for effective risk identification Central support functions Risk Management Committee and management Provide targeted expertise and Responsible for ensuring that support to risk owners, develop and significant risks to Group-level maintain risk specific controls to objectives are identified and for ensure effective management of ensuring the risk management material Group-level risk within process is effective agreed thresholds Group Audit & Assurance Responsible for providing reasonable assurance that the systems for internal control are adequate and effective Risks may materialise individually, simultaneously or in combination and could Risk factors significantly affect the Groups: Rio Tintos business units and functions assess the potential economic and short, medium and long-term business and prospects: non-economic consequences of their respective risks using the framework defined by the Groups Risk policy and standard.
Principal risks and earnings, cash flow and financial position: uncertainties are those that the Risk Management Committee, business unit overall financial results and product demand: or function determine to have potential material consequences at a Group current asset values: level.
They also include factors that may trigger a succession of events that, in future asset values and growth potential: aggregate, become material to the Group.
Once identified, each principal risk or uncertainty is reviewed by the relevant internal experts and by the Risk safety record and the long, medium and short-term health of its Management Committee.
employees: environmental and social impact on neighbouring communities: Pages 15 to 17 describe the currently-known principal risks and uncertainties that could materially affect Rio Tinto or its ability to meet its strategic social licence to operate: or objectives.
There may be additional risks unknown to Rio Tinto and other risks, Group or business unit reputation.
currently not believed to be material, which could turn out to be material.
The The principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in connection risk factors outlined do not include the management detail on how each is with any forward-looking statements in this document and the cautionary managed and mitigated, or the controls established to decrease the likelihood statement on the inside front cover.
or impact of these risks occurring.
This is discussed in more detail on page 62.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS External risks Factor Nature Commodity prices and global Commodity prices and demand are volatile and strongly influenced by fluctuating world economic conditions.
The Groups demand for the Groups policy is to sell its products at prices that reflect the value of our products in the market and not to enter into price hedging products are expected to remain arrangements.
uncertain Past strong demand for the The Group is highly exposed to the Chinese market.
Chinas demand for any of the Groups products, and iron ore in Groups products in China could particular, could be substantially affected by: be affected by future : developments in that country financial or banking market conditions impacting investment: an accelerated shift from infrastructure-led to service-oriented growth: or a material change in energy policy.
Any or all of these may adversely affect the Groups profitability and cash position.
Rio Tinto is exposed to The vast majority of the Groups sales are denominated in US dollars, which is also the currency used for holding surplus fluctuations in exchange rates cash, financing operations, and presenting external and internal results.
Although many costs are incurred in US dollars, a significant portion are incurred in, or influenced by, the local currencies of the countries where the Group operates, principally the Australian dollar and Canadian dollar.
The Groups normal policy is not to hedge foreign exchange rates and so the Group may be adversely affected by appreciation in the value of other currencies against the US dollar, or to prolonged periods of exchange rate volatility.
Currency fluctuations may negatively impact the Groups profitability and dividend payments as well as rating agency metrics and asset carrying values.
Political, legal and commercial The Group operates across a large number of jurisdictions, resulting in exposure to a broad spectrum of economies, political changes in the places where the and legal frameworks and societal norms.
Each jurisdiction poses unique complexities and challenges that in turn impose Group operates risks on the value chain, from new business development through to closure and rehabilitation, and on asset carrying values.
These can include: difficulty in obtaining agreements, leases or permits for new activities: renegotiation, unilateral variation or nullification of existing agreements, leases and permits: changes in government ownership levels in Group businesses: changes in taxation rates, regimes or international tax agreements: currency and foreign investment restrictions: limitations to power, water, energy and infrastructure access: and general increases in regulation and compliance requirements.
 behaviour or circumstance may also present uncertainties to our operating environment: unclear land title and rights to land and resources including Indigenous title : political and administrative change, policy reform, and changes in law or government regulation: an inherent culture of bribery and corruption: violent criminal or sectarian tensions.
Any such jurisdictional instability or legislative uncertainty that impacts the Groups operations may result in increased costs, curtail or negatively impact existing operations and or prevent the Group from making future investments.
Community disputes in the Some of the Groups current and potential operations are located in or near communities that may regard these operations countries and territories in as being detrimental to them.
Community expectations are typically complex, with the potential for multiple inconsistent which the Group operates stakeholder views that may be difficult to resolve.
Stakeholder opinion and community acceptance can be subject to many influences, for example, related industries, operations of other groups, or local, regional or national events in any of the places where we operate.
These disputes can disrupt our operations and may increase our costs, thereby potentially impacting our revenue and profitability.
In the extreme, our operations may be a focus for civil unrest or criminal activity, which can impact our operational and financial performance, as well as our reputation.
Increased regulation of Rio Tintos operations are energy-intensive and depend on fossil fuels.
In numerous jurisdictions, there is increasing greenhouse gas emissions could regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, tighter emission reduction targets and progressive introduction of carbon pricing adversely affect the Groups mechanisms.
These may raise worldwide energy, production and transport costs over the medium to long term, which may cost of operations increase the Groups cost base and potentially negatively impact the Groups profitability.
Regulations, standards and The resources sector is subject to extensive health, safety and environmental laws, regulations and standards alongside stakeholder expectations community and stakeholder expectations.
Evolving regulation, standards and stakeholder expectations could result in regarding health, safety, increased costs, regulatory action, litigation or, in extreme cases, threaten the viability of an operation.
environment and community evolve over time and unforeseen changes could have an adverse effect on the Groups social licencetooperate, business viability and reputation riotinto.
com 15 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Strategic risks Factor Nature The Groups exploration and Rio Tinto identifies new orebodies and mining properties through its exploration programme, and develops or expands other development of new projects operations as a means of generating shareholder value.
Exploration is not always successful and there is a high degree of might be unsuccessful competition for world-class orebodies.
The Group may also not be able to source or maintain adequate financing, or may be unable to find willing and suitable joint venture partners to share the cost of developing large projects.
Furthermore, project execution may not proceed as planned and project budgets and schedules may prove inaccurate, all of which may negatively impact the Groups profitability and the mineral resources from which future cash flows should come.
Rio Tinto may fail to Potential acquisitions may not succeed and the Group may not be able to successfully divest assets it wishes to sell, resulting successfully execute in unforeseen pressure on the Groups cash position or reducing the Groups ability to expand operations as a means of divestments and acquisitions generating shareholder value.
All business combinations or acquisitions entail a number of risks, including the cost of effectively integrating acquisitions to realise synergies, significant write-offs or restructuring charges, and unanticipated costs and liabilities.
The Group may also be liable for the past acts, omissions or liabilities it has acquired that were unforeseen or greater than anticipated.
The Group may also face liabilities for divested entities if the buyer fails to honour all commitments or the Group agrees to retain certain liabilities.
Large outsourcing programmes The Group is implementing business transformation programmes to increase efficiency.
These include outsourcing and offmay result in exposure to thirdshoring elements of important business support delivery as well as increasing procurement of goods and services from party failure, or loss of emerging market suppliers.
The Group may be exposed to business continuity failure impacting financial performance, loss of intellectual property intellectual property or data, data privacy violations and or reputational damage as a result of third-party failure or actions.
Financial risks Factor Nature The Groups reported results The Group may be required to record impairment charges as a result of adverse developments in the recoverable values of its could be adversely affected by assets including goodwill.
Significant assumptions in the determination of recoverable value include, but are not limited to: the impairment of assets pricing of the Groups commodities and products, reserves and resources, infrastructure availability, discount and foreign including goodwill currency exchange rates, operating and development cost projections, and the timing of expenditure and revenues related to major projects.
In addition, the occurrence of unexpected events, or events beyond the Groups control that adversely impact its business, may have an impact on the assumptions underlying the recoverable value of its assets.
The foregoing items are not exhaustive and impairments may be caused by factors currently unknown to the Group.
To the extent that the recoverable value of an asset is impaired, such impairment will negatively impact the Groups profitability during the relevant period.
Discount rates used in Discount rates are utilised to determine provisions for costs of known future obligations such as close-down and determining provisions and remediation as well as valuing assets for impairment testing and capital allocation purposes.
Discount rates may vary over asset valuations may change, time as underlying assumptions change.
These assumptions include observable long term government bond yields, market causing changes to provisions, risk premiums, and other situational changes such as change in political stability in a particular jurisdiction.
asset carrying values and Changes to the discount rate may impact the size of provisions recognised, lead to changes in the carrying value of assets, or capital allocation alter the capital allocated to various projects.
The Groups liquidity and Both the Groups ability to fund planned expenditure such as capital growth, mergers and acquisitions, innovation and other cash flow expectations may objectives or obligations as well as the ability to weather a major economic downturn could be compromised by inadequate not be realised, inhibiting access to sufficient liquidity, including external financing sources such as bank financing or capital markets.
planned expenditure Failure to reduce costs may Failure to reduce costs may have an adverse impact on our operating margins and the viability of our capital result in reduced margins expansion projects.
Operational risks Factor Nature Estimates of ore reserves are There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, including subjective judgments and determinations based on uncertain assumptions that are based on available geological, technical, contract and economic information.
Previously valid assumptions may that, if changed, could result in change significantly with new information, which may result in changes to the economic viability of some ore reserves and the need to restate ore reserves the need for them to be restated.
In addition, volatility in commodity prices can result in substantial adjustments in the Groups recognition of ore reserves.
Labour disputes could lead Some of the Groups employees, including employees in non-managed operations, are represented by labour unions under to lost production and or various collective labour agreements.
The Group may not be able to renegotiate agreements satisfactorily when they expire increased costs and may face difficult negotiations, higher wage demands or industrial action.
In addition, labour agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage and labour disputes may arise even in circumstances where the Groups employees are not represented by labour unions.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Factor Nature Some of the Groups The Group has invested in and implemented new technologies both in information systems and in operational initiatives, technologies are unproven and some of which are unproven and their eventual viability cannot be assessed with certainty.
The actual benefits of these failures could adversely impact technologies may differ materially from expectations.
costs and or productivity The Group may be exposed to Rio Tinto operates within a complex supply chain depending on suppliers of materials, services, equipment, and major failures in the supply infrastructure, and on providers of logistics.
Supply chain failures, or significantly increased costs within the supply chain, chain for specialist services, for whatever reason, could have an adverse effect on the Groups business.
equipment and materials Joint ventures, strategic The Group participates in several joint venture and partnership arrangements, and it may enter into others, all of which partnerships or non-managed involve risk.
Whether or not the Group holds majority interests or maintains operational control in its joint ventures, its operations may not be partners may: successful and may not comply have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with, or opposed to, those of the Group: with the Groups standards exercise veto rights to block actions that the Group believes are in its or the joint ventures best interests: or be unable or unwilling to fulfil their obligations under the joint venture or other agreements, such as contributing capital to expansion or maintenance projects.
Where these joint ventures are controlled and managed by others, the Group may provide expertise and advice but has limited control over compliance with its standards and objectives.
Controlling partners may take action contrary to the Groups interests or policies, resulting in adverse impact to the Groups operations, financial performance, legal liability or reputation.
Natural disasters and events vulnerable to a range of Mining, smelting, refining and infrastructure installations are vulnerable to natural events including earthquakes, subsidence, interruptions, not all of which drought, flood, fire, storm and climate change.
are covered fully by insurance 2.
Sustained operational difficulties Operating difficulties are many and various, ranging from geological variations that could result in significant ground or containment failure to breakdown of key capital equipment.
Reliable roads, rail networks, ports, power generation and transmission, and water supplies are required to access and conduct our operations and deliver product to market.
Limitations, delayed development, bottlenecks or interruptions in infrastructure, including as a result of third parties gaining access to our integrated facilities, could impede our ability to deliver products.
Information technology and cyber security The Group relies heavily on information technology and process control systems to support our business.
In common with most large global companies, the Group has experienced cyber attacks and is faced with ongoing threats to the confidentiality, integrity and availability of such systems.
An extended failure of critical system components, caused by accidental or malicious actions, including those resulting from a cyber security attack, could result in a significant environmental, health or safety incident, commercial loss or interruption to operations.
Major operational failure The Groups operations involve chemicals and other substances stored under high temperature and pressure, with the potential for fire, explosion or other loss of control of the process, leading to a release of hazardous materials.
This could occur by accident, systems failure or a breach of operating standards, and could result in a significant environmental, health or safety incident.
Sustained pandemic The Group has exploration, development projects and operations in numerous countries and is reliant on effective global shipping transportation movements to deliver product to markets.
The sustained outbreak of a pandemic may result in health exposure to our workforce as well as the temporary closure of a site or access to shipping transportation movements, adversely impacting financial performance.
The Groups insurance does not cover every potential loss associated with its operations and adequate coverage at reasonable rates is not always obtainable.
In addition, insurance provision may not fully cover its liability or the consequences of any business interruption.
Any occurrence not fully covered by insurance could have an adverse effect on the Groups business.
The Group depends on The Groups ability to maintain its competitive position is dependent on the services of a wide range of highly-skilled and the continued services of experienced personnel available in the locations where they are needed.
Failure to recruit and retain key staff, and the key personnel inability to deploy staff worldwide, where they are most needed, could affect the Groups business.
Similar constraints may be felt by the Groups key consultants, contractors and suppliers, thereby impacting the Groups operations, expansion plans or business more generally.
The Groups costs of closeClose-down and reclamation works to return operating sites to the community can be extensive and costly.
Estimated costs down, reclamation, and are provided for, and updated annually, over the life of each operation but the provisions might prove to be inadequate due to rehabilitation could be higher changes in legislation, standards and the emergence of new, or increases in the cost of, reclamation techniques.
In addition, than expected the expected timing of expenditure could change significantly due to changes in the business environment that might vary thelifeofanoperation.
