20 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES m AnAgIng OUR RISK Ashtead has a rigorous risk management framework designed to identify and assess the likelihood and consequences of risk and to manage the actions necessary to mitigate its impact.
A detailed description of this framework is given on pages 28 and 29.
Set out below are the principal business risks that currently impact the group and information on how we mitigate against them.
Our risk profile evolves as we move through the economic cycle and commentary on how risks have changed is included below.
INCREASED RISK CONSTANT RISK DECREASED RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CHANGE In the longer term, there is a link Prudent management through the Our performance is currently ahead of between demand for our services different phases of the cycle.
the economic cycle and we therefore and levels of economic activity.
Flexibility in the business model.
expect to see further upside as the The construction industry, from which Capital structure and debt facilities economic recovery becomes more we earn the majority of our revenue, is arranged in recognition of the cyclical sustained.
However, our longer term ECONOMIC cyclical and typically lags the general nature of our market and able to planning is focused on the next CONDITIONS economic cycle by between 12 and withstand market shocks.
downturn to ensure we have the 24 months.
financial firepower at the bottom of the cycle to achieve the next step-change in business performance.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CHANGE The already competitive market could Create commercial advantage by Our competitive position continues to become even more competitive and we providing the highest level of service, improve.
We are growing faster than could suffer increased competition consistently and at a price which most of our larger competitors and the from large national competitors or offers value.
market, and continue to take market COMPETITION small companies operating at a local Excel in the areas that provide share from our smaller, less well level resulting in reduced market barriers to entry to newcomers: financed competitors.
industry-leading IT, experienced personnel and a broad network and equipment fleet.
Regularly estimate and monitor our market share and track the performance of our competitors.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CHANGE Debt facilities are only ever committed Maintain conservative below two We took the opportunity afforded by for a finite period of time and we need times net debt to EBITDA leverage strong debt markets to increase our ABL to plan to renew our facilities before which helps minimise our facility to $2bn, reduce the interest rate they mature and guard against default.
grid and extend its maturity to 2018.
In FINANCING Our loan agreements also contain Maintain long debt maturities.
addition, we accessed the long-term fixed conditions known as covenants with Use of an asset-based senior facility rate debt markets and added $400m to which we must comply.
means none of our debt contains our 6.5% notes due 2022 at a yield to quarterly financial covenants when maturity of 5.6%.
At 30 April 2014, our availability under the facility facilities were committed for an average exceeds $200m.
of six years and availability under the ABL was $916m.
Strategic report Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 21 POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CHANGE We are heavily dependent on technology Robust and well-protected data Our business continuity plans were for the smooth running of our business centres with multiple data links to reviewed, updated and tested during given the large number of both units of protect against the risk of failure.
equipment we rent and our customers.
Detailed business recovery plans BUSINESS A serious uncured failure in our point which are tested periodically.
CONTINUITY of sale IT platforms would have an Separate near-live back-up data immediate impact, rendering us unable centres which are designed to be to record and track our high volume, able to provide the necessary low transaction value operations.
services in the event of a failure at the primary site.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CHANGE Retaining and attracting good people is Provide well-structured and Our compensation and incentive key to delivering superior performance competitive reward and benefit programmes have continued to evolve and customer service.
packages that ensure our ability to reflect market conditions and the to attract and retain the employees economic environment.
Staff turnover Excessive staff turnover is likely to PEOPLE we need.
remains relatively low, based on impact on our ability to maintain the Ensure that our staff have the right historical levels.
appropriate quality of service to our working environment and equipment customers and would ultimately impact We continue to invest in training and to enable them to do the best job our financial performance adversely.
career development with nearly 300 possible and maximise their courses offered across both businesses.
Invest in training and career development opportunities for our people to support them in their careers.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CHANGE We need to comply with laws and Maintain appropriate health and safety The overall incident rate continued to regulations governing occupational policies and procedures regarding decline in Sunbelt and A-Plant, although health and safety matters.
Furthermore, the need to comply with laws and we saw a higher incidence of strains and accidents could happen which might regulations and to reasonably guard sprains in A-Plant.
This resulted in a result in injury to an individual, claims our employees against the risk reduced RIDDOR reportable rate of 0.45 HEALTH against the Group and damage to of injury.
2013: 0.48 in Sunbelt but an increase AND SAFETY our reputation.
Induction and training programmes to 0.52 in A-Plant 2013: 0.35. reinforce health and safety policies.
Programmes to support our customers exercising their responsibility to their own workforces when using our equipment.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CHANGE Failure to comply with the frequently Maintaining a legal function to We monitor regulatory and legislation changing regulatory environment oversee management of these risks changes to ensure our policies and could result in reputational damage and to achieve compliance with practices reflect them and we comply with or financial penalty.
COMPLIANCE Group-wide ethics policy and Our whistle-blowing arrangements are well WITH LAWS AND whistle-blowing arrangements.
established and the Company Secretary Evolving policies and practices to take REGULATIONS reported matters arising to the Audit account of changes in legal obligations.
Committee during the course of the year.
Training and induction programmes ensure our staff receive appropriate During the year over 1,100 people in training and briefing on the relevant Sunbelt and over 700 in A-Plant underwent policies.
induction training and additional training programmes were undertaken in safety.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CHANGE We need to comply with the numerous Policies and procedures in place at We continue to seek to reduce the laws governing environmental protection all our stores regarding the need to environmental impact of our business matters.
These laws regulate such issues adhere to local laws and regulations.
and invest in technology to reduce the as wastewater, stormwater, solid and Procurement policies reflect the need environmental impact on our customers ENvIRONMENTAL hazardous wastes and materials, and for the latest available emissions businesses.
In 2013 14 we reduced our air quality.
Breaches potentially create management and fuel efficiency tools carbon emission intensity ratio to 121 hazards to our employees, damage to in our fleet.
2013: 129 in Sunbelt and 101 2013: 112 our reputation and expose the Group to, Monitoring and reporting of carbon in A-Plant.
Further detail is provided on amongst other things, the cost of emissions.
pages 36 and 37. investigating and remediating contamination and also fines and penalties for non-compliance.
