Strategic Report PRINCIPAL RISKS Managing our risks to deliver better power for a changing world are in a good position to assess how far is designed to identify and manage, rather Rolls-Royce benefits from operating a risk controls and actions are effective.
than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve management framework within a riskbusiness objectives and to provide reasonable conscious organisation.
Risk management The Executive Leadership Team ELT assists but not absolute assurance against material is built into our day-to-day activities and the Board in determining the nature and misstatement or loss.
Our risk management forms an integral part of how we work.
From extent of the principal risks it is willing to process is a key element of the Groups internal our engineering design, through to engine take in achieving its strategic objectives.
control system and will develop in line with production, servicing and how we run our During 2014, as part of the full and half-year our activities, and in response to the risks operations, risk management is a key results process, the ELT reviewed key risks and uncertainties that arise.
enabler for delivering our brand promise: which had been reported by the Divisions trusted to deliver excellence.
These were cross-checked Risk management is implemented using a with the risks that the ELT had identified Group-wide framework and software tool Given the rapid growth of the business over from its own assessments, from which and a network of trained experts.
the past few years and the changing risk it developed a list of principal risks.
environment that we work in, we have been Divisions and their business units and reviewing how far the risk management When the ELT reviews the principal risks functions are accountable for identifying framework continues to meet our needs it takes into account changes in external and managing risk in line with Group across the Group.
This work is now largely strategic factors such as the competitive requirements and they formally review risks complete and we will be rolling out some environment, technology, cyber security at least twice yearly.
Business continuity plans improvements across the organisation to and macro-economic developments as well are put in place by the businesses to mitigate help ensure greater consistency across the as potential operational, financial and continuity risks.
different parts of our operations.
Part of this compliance risks.
Changes in our risk profile review has looked at risk governance and are highlighted to the Board.
The Board Risk thresholds are set at each level across the how the Board assesses our principal risks can regularly review and challenge whether Group and any risks identified that meet the and satisfies itself that these are being the Groups principal risks are the right ones agreed threshold are captured in the Group managed appropriately.
to focus on and have an opportunity to risk software tool and escalated to Group discuss with senior management how they level as part of a well structured reporting RISK GOVERNANCE are being managed.
The Board is very and review system.
The review of our risk management conscious of the need to both keep the list framework has been conducted alongside of principal risks under active review and This framework benefits from overall the governance review described on page to consider potential risks as an explicit part coordination by the Groups enterprise risk 56.
The Board has decided that, from January of its discussions.
team, led by the director of risk, which is 2015, the principal risks will be reviewed responsible for disseminating risk policy and by the Board or the most appropriate board OUR RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES processes.
To help ensure full coverage and committees to make sure that there is The Board is responsible for the Groups efficiency we are currently conducting a risk, sufficient focus and independent oversight system of internal control and for control and assurance mapping exercise to on the risks.
During the year, the relevant maintaining and reviewing its effectiveness give the Board and committees that have committees will carry out deep dives to from a financial, operational and compliance oversight responsibility a clearer picture of review their allocated risks in detail and then perspective.
This system of internal control how the internal control and risk management report to the Board.
This will ensure that we framework is working in practice.
Our risk framework ensures that Joint ventures constitute an increasingly large The Board risks are identified, managed and part of the Groups activities.
Responsibility for communicated at every level of internal control procedures in joint ventures ELT & board the Group.
committees lies with the managers of those operations.
We seek to exert influence over such joint Key risks are subject to review and ventures through board representation.
Division functions challenge by the ELT and are used Management and internal audit regularly to assist the Board in determining review the activities of these joint ventures Business units our principal risks.
and the director of internal audit and the Audit Committee have been taking a close look at audit coverage in this area.
Programmes PAGE 62 PAGES 71 AND 72 DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE 50 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report The Board is very aware that the values and behaviours required, which in changes to limits: reviewing the risk effectiveness of risk management is highly turn will strengthen our risk culture.
indicators for principal risks: and, hearing dependent on behaviours, as a good process from management how risks that exceed does not automatically lead to a good PRINCIPAL RISKS the revised thresholds will be managed.
Our ethics and compliance During the year, the ELT and Board focused improvement programme, aimed at on the principal risks and the actions being securing compliance with our ethical taken to manage them.
This involved: standards, will help.
The launch of the new discussing changes to the risk register: Global Code of Conduct is reinforcing the considering key risk thresholds and agreeing The following table describes the principal risks facing the Group notwithstanding that there are other risks that may occur and may impact the achievement of the Groups objectives.
RISK OR UNCERTAINTY AND POTENTIAL IMPACT HOW WE MANAGE IT Operating a safety first culture PRODUCT FAILURE Applying our engineering design and validation process from initial design, Product not meeting safety expectations, or through production and into service causing significant impact to customers or the The Safety and Ethics Committee reviewing the scope and effectiveness environment through failure in quality control.
of the Groups product safety policies to ensure that they operate to the highest industry standards see Safety and Ethics Committee on page 66 Operating a safety management system SMS, governed by the product safety review board, and subject to continual improvement based on experience and industry best practice.
Product safety training is an integral part of our SMS Improving our supply chain quality Crisis management team chaired by the Director Engineering and Technology or General Counsel as appropriate This principal risk is subject to review by the Safety and Ethics Committee Continuing investment in adequate capacity, and modern equipment and BUSINESS CONTINUITY facilities see Aerospace Business review on page 33 Breakdown of external supply chain or internal Identifying and assessing points of weakness in our internal and external facilities that could be caused by destruction of supply chain, our IT systems and our people skills key facilities, natural disaster, regional conflict, Selecting and developing stronger suppliers financial insolvency of a critical supplier or scarcity of materials which would reduce the ability to Developing dual sources or dual capability meet customer commitments, win future business Developing and testing incident management and business continuity plans or achieve operational results.
Crisis management team chaired by Director Engineering and Technology or General Counsel as appropriate Customer excellence centres providing improved response to supply chain disruption This principal risk is subject to review by the Audit Committee Customer Innovation Profitable growth STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 51 Strategic Report PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED RISK OR UNCERTAINTY AND POTENTIAL IMPACT HOW WE MANAGE IT A ccessing and developing key technologies and service offerings which COMPETITOR ACTION differentiate us competitively see Innovation and Technology on page 21 The presence of large, financially strong Focusing on being responsive to our customers and improving the quality, competitors in the majority of our markets means delivery and reliability of our products and services that the Group is susceptible to significant price Partnering with others effectively pressure for original equipment or services even where our markets are mature or the competitors Driving down cost and improving margins see Chief Executives review are few.
Our main competitors have access to on page 17 and Chief Financial Officers review on pages 26 and 27 significant government funding programmes Protecting credit lines as well as the ability to invest heavily in technology and industrial capability.
Investing in innovation, manufacturing and production, and continuing governance of technology programmes Understanding our competitors This principal risk is subject to review by the Board Where possible, locating our domestic facilities and supply chain in POLITICAL RISK countries with a low level of political risk and or ensuring that we maintain dual capability Geopolitical factors that lead to an unfavourable business climate and significant tensions between Diversifying global operations to avoid excessive concentration of risks major trading parties or blocs which could impact in particular areas the Groups operations.
For example: explicit trade The international network of Rolls-Royce and its business units proactively protectionism, differing tax or regulatory regimes, monitoring local situations potential for conflict, or broader political issues.
Maintaining a balanced business portfolio with high barriers to entry and a diverse customer base see Chief Executives review on pages 15 and 16 and business model on pages 24 and 25 Proactively influencing regulation where it affects us see Sustainability on page 45 This principal risk is subject to review by the Board M ajor programmes are subject to Board approval see Additional financial MAJOR PROGRAMME DELIVERY information on page 160 Failure to deliver a major programme on time, Reviewing major programmes at levels and frequencies appropriate to their within budget to specification or technical performance against key financial and non-financial deliverables and potential performance falling significantly short of risks throughout the programmes life cycle see Additional financial customer expectations, or not delivering the information on page 160 planned business benefits, would have potentially Conducting technical audits at pre-defined points and performed by a team significant adverse financial and reputational that is independent from the programme consequences, including the risk of impairment of the carrying value of the Groups intangible Requiring programmes to address the actions arising from reviews and audits assets and the impact of potential litigation.
and monitoring and controlling progress through to closure Applying knowledge management principles to provide benefit to current and future programmes This principal risk is subject to review by the Board Customer Innovation Profitable growth STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 52 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report RISK OR UNCERTAINTY AND POTENTIAL IMPACT HOW WE MANAGE IT Taking an uncompromising approach to compliance COMPLIANCE Operating an extensive compliance programme.
This programme and the Non-compliance by the Group with legislation Global Code of Conduct are disseminated throughout the Group and are or other regulatory requirements in the heavily updated and reinforced from time-to-time to ensure their continued relevance, regulated environment in which it operates and to ensure that they are complied with both in spirit and to the letter.
The for example: export controls, use of controlled Global Code of Conduct and the Groups compliance programme are supported chemicals and substances, and anti-bribery and by appropriate training see Safety and Ethics Committee on page 67 corruption legislation compromising the ability A legal and compliance team is in place to manage our compliance programme to conduct business in certain jurisdictions and and any ongoing regulatory investigations see Safety and Ethics Committee exposing the Group to potential reputational on page 68 damage, financial penalties, debarment from government contracts for a period of time, and or Lord Gold has reviewed the Groups current compliance procedures and the suspension of export privileges or export credit Group has continued to implement an improvement plan financing, any of which could have a material adverse effect.
Implementing a comprehensive REACH compliance programme.
This includes establishing appropriate data systems and processes, working with our suppliers, customers and trade associations and conducting research on alternative materials This principal risk is subject to review by the Safety and Ethics Committee Maintaining a strong balance sheet, through healthy cash balances and MARKET SHOCK a continuing low level of debt The Group is exposed to a number of market risks, Providing financial flexibility by maintaining high levels of liquidity and some of which are of a macro-economic nature.
an investment grade A credit rating see Additional financial information For example, oil price or foreign currency exchange on page 161 rates, and some which are more specific to the Sustaining a balanced portfolio through earning revenue both from the sale Group, such as liquidity and credit risks, reduction of original equipment and aftermarket services, providing a broad product in air travel or disruption to other customer range and addressing diverse markets that have differing business cycles operations.
Significant extraneous market events could also materially damage the Groups Deciding where and what currencies to source in, and where and how much competitiveness and or creditworthiness.
This credit risk is extended or taken.
The Group has a number of treasury policies would affect operational results or the outcomes that are designed to hedge residual risks using financial derivatives foreign of financial transactions.
exchange, interest rate and commodity price risk see Additional financial information on page 160 and note 17 This principal risk is subject to review by the Audit Committee Establishing defence in depth through deployment of multiple layers of IT VULNERABILITY software protection and processes including web gateways, filtering, firewalls, intrusion, and advanced persistent threat detectors and integrated reporting Breach of IT security causing controlled or critical see Audit Committee report on pages 71 and 72 data to be lost, made inaccessible, corrupted or accessed by unauthorised users impacting the Running security and network operations centres Groups operations or reputation.
Actively sharing IT Security information through industry, government and security forums This principal risk is subject to review by the Audit Committee The Strategic Report was approved by theBoard on 12 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by PAMELA COLES Company Secretary 53
