STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE MANAGE RISK Managing Business Risks The assessment and management of risk is the responsibility of the Board, and the development and execution of a comprehensive and robust system of risk management is a high priority in Rotork.
Managing the risks to our business is essential to the long-term success and sustainability of the Group and our approach to risk is intended to protect the Overall responsibility interests of shareholders and all interested for maintaining the parties.
The risk management process is an risk management Rotork plc Board established way of identifying and managing process and risk, first at divisional board level, and then for determining risk the Group as a whole and it works within our appetite.
governance framework set out in our Corporate Governance Statement, see page 54.
The Boards role in risk management involves Audit Committee promoting a culture that emphasises integrity provides oversight of Audit Committee at all levels of business operations.
This includes the internal control ensuring that risk management is embedded framework.
within the core processes of the Group, determining the principal risks, communicating these effectively across the businesses and setting the overall policies for risk management Executive and senior and control.
The geographic spread of our management activities makes communication of these Integrated Business Risk Management incorporating consider risk policies and standards a key part of ensuring review by the Management Team management for the consistency across all of our operations.
The Group Finance Director is responsible for risk management within the Group and leads Detailed risk the development of the risk management assessment process and the tools used.
The Board approves and consideration of Controls Fluid Gears Instruments Corporate risk appetite for the Group and considers the mitigation is carried Division Systems Division Division consequential actions in terms of mitigation out at the divisional Division where possible and appropriate.
36 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information Determining Risk Appetite This is an ongoing process involving regular The Board is responsible for determining the assessment of the risks, with clear and nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take consistent procedures for monitoring, updating in achieving its strategic objectives.
This risk and implementing appropriate controls to appetite is not only considered during the risk manage the identified risks.
We are therefore review meetings but also during a number of confident that we have a methodology for other Board discussions during the year.
These ensuring that the Groups approach to dealing include strategy discussions, consideration of with individual risks is robust and timely.
insurance coverage, setting of scope and timing of the internal audit, health and safety audit Classification of Key Risks programmes and amendments to Group We identify three main risk types: policies and procedures in areas such as whistleblowing and bribery and corruption.
The Strategic Risks that potentially could affect remuneration committee of the Board considers the strategic aims of the business, or those risks related to staff retention and the issues that could affect the strategic objectives nomination committee considers the risk that the Group is addressing: around succession planning.
In addition where specific risks are identified during the year these Operational Risks arising out of the are identified in the written reports received by operational activities of the Group relating to the Board each month.
areas such as logistics, procurement, product development and interaction with commercial Risk Management Process partners: and The major risks affecting the Group are first identified and considered by the divisional Financial Issues that could affect the finances boards during their regular meetings.
Once a of the business both externally from matters risk has been identified, it is allocated to one of initially outside of our control, and from the the directors to ensure the risk is appropriately perspective of internal controls and processes.
considered and the risk is managed.
Risks are categorised on a matrix reflecting likelihood and The risks considered during the process cover impact on the business.
The assessment of all aspects of the Groups activities and cover a likelihood is considered after allowing for the far wider range of areas including effect of mitigation whilst the impact is environmental, reputational and ethical risks as measured before allowing for mitigation such as well as product, competitor or financial risks, insurance recoveries.
The impact scale is but not all of these areas are represented in the determined as a function of annual profit so that top 10 risks which are listed on pages 38 and 39. each division has an appropriate benchmark.
These are categorised by the three main risk Once the assessment matrix is completed by areas identified above.
Mitigation, where each division, the risks are then aggregated and possible, is shown for each risk area identified.
re-evaluated in relation to the Group as a whole using an appropriate Group impact scale.
Identified risks are discussed and the progress Consider the overall Identify and assess reviewed at both Rotork Management Board and eectiveness of the individual risks Divisional Board meetings during the year.
control environment Senior management, in association with the full Board of Directors, meets twice a year to consider the Group risk matrix and progress with mitigating actions.
The external auditor is invited to attend one of the meetings each year.
Report any incidence Review previously of control failings identied risks and the eectiveness of mitigation Test the controls Design of controls to through management mitigate identied risks review and internal audit ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 37
