18 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Principal risks RPC is subject to a number of risks, both external andinternal, some of which could have a significant impact on the performance of its business.
A regular review is conducted of these risks to identify both the nature and magnitude of a risk and the manner in which it can be mitigated.
The risks that are seen as being particularly important at the current time are: Area Description of risk of risk Mitigation Polymer price Polymer resin, which is the key raw material used in the The Group is able to pass on the majority of polymer price and availability manufacture of rigid plastic packaging, represented 40% increases to its customers through agreed contractual ofthe operating costs of the business in 2013 14.
Polymer terms, providing an effective hedge against polymer price prices have risen consistently in recent years and are increases albeit with a time lag.
subject to volatility as they tend to follow the underlying The Group has also reduced its dependence on individual price of oil as well as being impacted by changes in global suppliers by adapting its manufacturing sites to convert a supply and demand.
wider range of polymer grades, to mitigate against supply In addition some sources of polymer supply are affected disruption.
by plant breakdowns and unscheduled maintenance which can result in shortages.
Dependence on The Group has long established relationships with a There is a high degree of mutual dependency between key customers number of key customers, with the top 10 accounting for RPC and its customers and because of the Groups size, over 29% of sales in 2013 14.
The loss of any one of these product range, geographical reach and the joint investment customers could adversely affect the Groups results in the often required to develop a product, many customers short-term.
have difficulty in moving their business to an alternative supplier in the short term.
In addition customer retention is strengthened by the Group remaining responsive to customer demands, by delivering high quality products, excellent customer service and developing innovative packaging solutions that can provide new sales opportunities for our customers.
Pricing and competitive The market for rigid plastic packaging, although The Group differentiates itself from its competitors by pressures fragmented, has become increasingly competitive, establishing long-term relationships with its customers particularly where there has been consolidation or through bespoke product development and through overcapacity in the market, exacerbated by the economic investing in new and innovative capabilities across a wide recession.
An increasing focus on pricing by customers puts range of conversion technologies.
In addition the Group pressure on margins and may lead to lost business where has improved its competitive position in the challenging customers have the capability to switch volumes to other economic environment of the last few years by focusing suppliers.
on cost reduction, improving productivity and operational efficiencies most recently through its Fitter for the Futurebusiness optimisation programme.
Economic environment and The continued impact of the recessionary economic The Group operates in a number of different markets cyclical patterns in the rigid environment in the UK and the Eurozone, to which 89% product, geographical, end customer or niches within the plastic packaging market ofthe Groups sales are made, has resulted in reduced rigid plastic packaging market, which serves to dilute the demand for some of our businesses.
Other factors, such effect of adversity of any one particular sector.
aschanges in consumer preferences and packaging The Group actively monitors the economic environment trends, also impact on demand.
andpatterns of demand, the impact this has on its businesses and responds by incremental and structural changes to its operations.
Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 Change in risk since the 2013 Annual Report Area Description of risk of risk Mitigation Business interruption Businesses face the potential risk of operations being The Group ensures that alternative sources of supply are and the loss of affected by disruption due to loss of supply, failures with available where possible, and where a problem is localised essential supplies technology, industrial disputes and physical damage arising in many cases it is possible to manufacture or supply the from re, ood or other catastrophe.
The loss of essential product from another site within the Group.
In addition all services or supplies could have a significant impact on the businesses have established protocols and procedures to Groups ability to service its customers.
ensure business continuity in the event of a major incident.
Supply of faulty or The Group has long established relationships with a The Group employs strict control measures and externally contaminated products number of key customers, with the top 10 accounting for accredited systems to ensure the safety and quality of over 29% of sales in 2013 14.
The loss of any one of these products that are manufactured.
The Group also has customers could adversely affect the Groups results in the appropriate insurance in place to cover product liability.
Safeguarding physical The risk of re represents a significant physical risk to Business sites have sprinkler and or smoke detection property and our employees the Group and the impact of a major catastrophe of this systems in place together with other preventive measures.
The health and safety of our Health and safety audits are regularly performed, in employees is the number one priority at all of our sites.
conjunction with internal and external specialists, to drive sites to best practice.
Funding and Risks relate to the cost and availability of funding for The Groups treasury activities are governed by policies financial risks the Groups businesses, movements in interest rates andprocedures approved and monitored by the Board.
and foreign currency exchange rates.
The Group has The Group negotiates funding requirements in a timely a translation exposure to the euro, as over 63% of manner ensuring appropriate headroom and funding the Groups earnings and net assets are reported in tenure is obtained to mitigate availability risk.
borrows at both xed and oating rates to give a degree of stability to the interest rate charged each year.
TheGroups balance sheet translation exposure to the euro is hedged by ensuring that borrowings in euros are matched to the Groups net assets in euros, and any significant transactional exposures in foreign currency are managed using approved financial derivatives.
Energy costs The Group uses significant amounts of electricity in the The Group has an energy purchasing strategy which manufacturing process.
The price of electricity is subject ensures that a proportion of electricity purchased is at to volatility and is a significant cost of manufacture for xed rates, and the business is focused on reducing the thebusiness.
electricity consumed per tonne of polymer converted through manufacturing efficiency improvements and the use of technical advances in equipment and processes.
TheGroup also participates in a Climate Change Agreement, through the British Plastics Federation, whichsets out energy reduction targets.
