Risk Management The Group supplies a wide range of services in many markets and countries.
This gives rise to a range of risks that need to be identified, assessed and managed.
The Groups system of planning, budgeting and performance review assists with this process.
The management of risk is not separated from the business, but is treated as an integral part of our culture and the way we operate.
Each of our businesses is expected to identify and take appropriate steps to mitigate risks associated with its operations.
An element of this risk management is the maintenance of an appropriate portfolio of insurance policies with suitable limits of indemnity.
These include policies in respect of physical assets as well as liabilities to third parties and employees.
Professional indemnity insurance is also maintained in appropriate parts of the Group to safeguard against losses arising from litigation associated with any shortfall in performance.
The Executive Committee oversees the management of risk to which the Group is exposed and reports those of a material nature to the Board together with recommendations for their mitigation.
The principal risks to which the Group is currently exposed are outlined below.
Health and Safety The Groups activities require the monitoring and management of the health and safety of its employees as well as sub-contractors, client personnel and the general public.
A failure to manage this risk correctly could expose our employees and these other groups to dangers as well as exposing the Group to significant potential liabilities and reputational damage.
Detailed health and safety policies and procedures are in place to minimise such risk.
The Groups approach to the management of health and safety is described on pages 15 and 16.
Economic Environment Economic uncertainty may cause the Groups clients to cancel, postpone or reduce existing or future projects.
Continuing projects may be subject to greater cost pressures.
The consequence is that we could have staff levels that exceed current workload and therefore incur the cost of unproductive time.
Although market factors are beyond our control, our exposure to a wide range of markets across the world mitigates the impact of downturn in any single market.
Our contractual order book is monitored regularly in comparison to the productive capacity of our fee earning staff.
Economic conditions in our various markets are closely monitored in order that pre-emptive action can, as far as possible, be taken as circumstances change.
Uncertainties continue in the Eurozone and in particular may affect performance of our businesses in The Netherlands and the Republic of Ireland, whilst the continued slowdown in the Australian natural resources sector has continued to affect our trading performance in that territory.
In addition the reduction in global oil prices and resultant project delays has had an impact on the performance of our Energy business.
We remain attuned to potential reductions in workload and take the necessary actions to reduce costs as and when this is required.
Political Events The change and uncertainty arising from political events may have an impact upon the markets in which we operate and our ability to deliver our services to clients.
Our operations in Kurdistan and Iraq were affected by conflict in the Middle Eastern region, whilst sanctions imposed on the Russian Federation may affect our business in that part of the world.
In addition recent State election results in Australia, as well as an indecisive outcome to forthcoming general election in the United Kingdom, may both reduce the demand for our services in those countries.
Whilst the wholesale avoidance of risks of this sort is impossible, in so far as they can be anticipated measures can be taken to match costs to anticipated workload.
The wide range of countries and markets that we serve will mitigate the effect of adverse political developments in particular countries.
Environmental and Health Risks Adverse occurrences of this type may affect our ability to deliver our services and our clients demand for them.
Our operations have previously been affected by environmental events such as Macondo oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
Although no events of this type have materially affected us in 2014, the possible spread of the Ebola virus into areas in Africa in which we operate could have an impact upon our operations and is kept under close review.
Whilst it is impossible to predict events of this type the wide range of markets that we serve will limit the impact of adverse occurrences in any specific country or region.
10 Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Information Systems A lengthy failure or discontinuity in our IT systems could have a significant impact upon our operations.
The Groups IT systems are centrally managed with certain specific functions carried out locally.
An annual Group plan is produced which includes measures designed to ensure reliability and resilience of the Groups systems as well as appropriate disaster planning.
The Group has operations in a large number of locations, which would enhance its ability to withstand any individual failure or malfunction.
The Group has never experienced a significant failure of its systems.
A cyber-attack upon our systems could result in loss of data, disruption to operations or direct financial loss.
The Group has previously suffered attacks of this nature but has never experienced any significant loss due to the effective operation of the systems and controls in place.
These systems as well as guidance given to employees remain under regular review.
Recruitment and Retention of Key Personnel The Groups services are performed by well-qualified and professional employees with expertise across a wide range of areas.
A failure to recruit and retain employees of appropriate calibre will, accordingly, impact our ability to meet our clients requirements and correspondingly to maintain and develop our business.
As previously reported, staff retention and recruitment issues had significant impact on our operations in North America during the year.
As a result of this we have reviewed and tightened our restrictive covenants.
As described on pages 13 and 14 the Group maintains competitive remuneration and incentive structures which are reviewed on a regular basis.
It also maintains an environment that is supportive of professional development through training and career opportunity.
Market Position and Reputation The Groups reputation for project delivery relies upon its public portrayal and the perception of existing and prospective clients.
A major failure of project management or delivery could, accordingly, impact our ability to win future work.
The Group operates quality control systems, many of which are externally accredited and are designed to enable our employees to provide a consistently high standard of work.
Litigation A failure to deliver our services in accordance with our contractual obligations may lead to a risk of the Group becoming involved in litigation.
In addition, as the contracting environment has evolved, clients in some of our businesses have sought to transfer certain risks to the consultants it engages.
The internal review processes operated by the Group seeks to ensure that contractual risks are properly scrutinised and mitigated as far as possible, whilst the management and quality control systems highlighted above minimise the risk of shortfalls in performance that may give rise to litigation.
The Group maintains professional indemnity insurance across appropriate parts of its businesses.
From time to time the Group receives claims from clients and suppliers some of which result in compensatory payments being made by the Group and its insurers.
The Board reviews significant claims at all meetings and is currently satisfied that the Group has provisions in its balance sheet the total of which is sufficient to meet all uninsured liabilities.
Compliance The Group is subject to a range of taxation and legal requirements.
A failure to comply with these obligations could give rise to legal liability, financial loss and reputational damage.
The Group has in place appropriate internal controls to deal with such matters and employs appropriately qualified employees through whom it monitors and responds to the regulatory requirements of the countries in which it operates.
Business Acquisitions As in the past the Group intends to develop and grow the business, in part, by making acquisitions.
A failure to identify acquired liabilities or to integrate acquired businesses could have an adverse impact on the Groups performance and prospects.
Detailed due diligence is performed on all potential acquisitions drawing upon both internal and external resources.
This will include an assessment of the ability to integrate the acquired business within the Group and its control environment.
The integration of the acquisitions made in 2013 has been successful and work in relation to those made during 2014 is proceeding well.
Funding The availability of sufficient and appropriate funding through the Groups bank facilities is important to support the Groups growth and in particular to fund acquisitions.
com 11 The Groups principal bank facility will expire in July 2016 and currently consists of a committed revolving credit facility with Lloyds of 125m.
It is anticipated that this facility will be replaced with a new facility, possibly involving other banks, during the middle part of 2015.
During the year the Groups position has been strengthened by the successful negotiation and completion of a $150m long term private shelf facility with Prudential Investment Management Inc.
Initial sums of 30m and US$34.1m repayable in September 2021 have been drawn against this facility.
A fixed interest rate of 4% is payable on this loan.
Financial Risk Management In addition to ensuring the availability of sufficient funding the Group faces a number of other financial risks which are fully described in note 30 to the Group Financial Accounts on page 69.
