18 Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Principal risks Focused on managing our risks The principal risks facing the group and considered by the board are detailed below.
The groups well-developed risk management process is described in the corporate governance section while financial risks are discussed in the Chief Financial Officers review on page 39 and in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
Principal risk Context Specific risks we face Possible impact The global brewing and beverages Failing to participate in the right Lower growth rate, profitability industry is expected to continue to opportunities.
There will continue to Paying too much to acquire a be opportunities to enter attractive business.
growth markets, to realise synergy Not implementing integration benefits from integration and to plans successfully.
Failing to identify and develop the capabilities necessary to facilitate market and category entry.
Consumer tastes and behaviours Failing to develop and ensure the Market positions come under are constantly evolving, and at an strength and relevance of our brands pressure, market opportunities increasingly rapid rate.
with consumers, shoppers and are missed, lower top line growth Competition in the beverage customers.
industry is expanding and Failing to continue to improve our becoming more fragmented, commercial capabilities to deliver complex and sophisticated.
brand propositions which respond appropriately to changing consumer preferences.
We believe that our people are our Failing to identify, develop and retain Failure to deliver the groups enduring advantage and therefore an appropriate pipeline of talented strategic and financial ambitions.
it is essential that we develop and managers for the present and future Lower long-term profitable maintain global management needs of the group.
With an increasingly high profile Regulation places increasing Lower growth, profitability and debate over alcohol consumption restrictions on the availability and reduced contribution to local in many markets, the alcohol marketing of beer.
industry is coming under more Tax and excise changes cause Loss of consumer goodwill pressure from national and pressure on pricing.
international regulators, NGOs Anti-alcohol advocates erode and local governments.
A key aspect of the Fosters Failing to deliver integration Lower growth rates and acquisition was the delivery of objectives and commercial and profitability.
a turnaround plan with specific operational excellence targets Damage to the groups reputation and communicated financial communicated as part of the for strong commercial capability value creation.
and for making value creating Failing to achieve the synergy and acquisitions.
cost-saving commitments of the transaction.
We continue to execute major Failing to derive the expected Increased programme costs, efficiency programmes that will benefits from the projects currently delays in benefit realisation, simplify processes, reduce costs under way.
business disruption, reputational and allow local management Failing to contain programme costs damage, reduced competitive teams to focus more closely on or ensure execution is in line with advantage in the medium term.
There is increasing sophistication Disruption of information technology Loss of competitive advantage and reputational damage through of cyber-attack capabilities.
IT systems and a loss of valuable Businesss increasing demand for and sensitive information and assets.
the publicised loss of key operating systems and confidential data.
consumers and customers Significant business disruption.
personal data means legislators Failing to comply with tightening Adverse effect on profitability, rightly continue to impose tighter legislation poses a threat of significant cash flows or financial position.
Industry consolidation Change in consumer preferences Management capability Regulatory changes Acquisition of Fosters Delivering business transformation Information and cyber security Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 19 Mitigation Associated strategic elements Continued competitor and target analysis to consider strategic and financial implications Retaining a broad portfolio of operations.
Creating superior revenue growth and Potential transactions are subject to continual and rigorous analysis.
Only opportunities profitability for our investors.
with potential to create value are pursued.
Proven integration processes, procedures and practices are applied to ensure delivery of expected returns.
Activities to deliver synergies and leverage scale are in place, monitored closely and continuously enhanced.
Development of non-traditional capabilities to enter and grow profitably in new markets.
Ongoing evaluation of our brand portfolios in every market to ensure that they target Offering beers and soft drinks that appeal current and future opportunities for profitable growth.
Developing a beer category structure that enables us to grow both the value of the beer Creating superior revenue growth category, and our share of it.
and profitability for our investors.
Ensuring we have a deep understanding of changing consumer and industry dynamics in Producing economies of scale and skill.
key markets, enabling us to respond appropriately to opportunities and issues which may impact our business performance.
Building our brand equities through innovation and compelling marketing programmes: creating a pipeline of opportunities to support our premium offering.
Focus on monitoring and benchmarking commercial performance and developing the critical commercial capabilities that are required in order to win in local markets.
Building the groups leadership talent pipeline through our Global Talent Management Offering beers and soft drinks that appeal model, strategic people resourcing and long-term talent pipeline.
Sustaining a strong culture of accountability, empowerment and personal development.
Creating superior revenue growth and profitability for our investors.
Producing economies of scale and skill.
Rigorous adherence to the principle of self-regulation backed by appropriate policies and Retaining a broad portfolio of operations.
Offering beers and soft drinks that appeal Building licence to trade capabilities across the group to facilitate sound risk analysis and to local tastes.
Creating real and lasting economic Constructive engagement with government and all external stakeholders on alcohol-related and social benefits in communities.
Working collaboratively with them to address the harmful use of alcohol.
Investment to improve the economic and social impact of our businesses in local communities and working in partnership with local governments and NGOs.
Embedding of the SABMiller Ways its processes, systems and tools throughout the Retaining a broad portfolio of operations.
Offering beers and soft drinks that appeal Commercial efforts in market to effectively deliver volume, value and market share gains.
Continued monitoring of progress against the integration plan, including frequent and Creating superior revenue growth regular tracking of key performance indicators.
Senior leadership closely involved in monitoring progress and in making key decisions.
Creating superior revenue growth Mechanisms in place to track both costs and benefits.
Rigorous programme management and governance processes with dedicated resources Producing economies of scale and skill.
Continued articulation and implementation of information security policies.
Increased investment to improve information security awareness, intelligence and Creating superior revenue growth implementation of sound security processes.
Building and enhancing processes to deal with IT security incidents.
