Key performance indicators continued We monitor our financial performance against a number of different benchmarks.
These are set in agreement with the Board and used to evaluate progress against our strategy.
Financial KPIs Organic revenue growth Underlying operating profit margin Underlying cash conversion 5% 27.5% 107% 5% 117% 112% 111% 27.5% 27.4% 27.3% 27.3% 107% 106% 25.5% 4% 4% 2% Flat 2010 2011 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Description Organic revenue neutralises the impact Underlying operating profit excludes: Underlying cash conversion is calculated of foreign exchange in prior year figures as cash flows from operating activities, Recurring items including amortisation and excludes the contribution of current adjusted for cash acquisition-related of acquired intangible assets, acquisitionand prior year acquisitions, disposals and items and non-recurring cash items of related items, and fair value adjustments products held for sale.
2m 2013: 2m, divided by underlying Non-recurring items that management operating profit.
For a reconciliation of organic revenue judge to be one-off or non-operational to statutory revenue, turn to page 45.
Going forward, underlying cash The impact of foreign exchange is neutralised conversion will be calculated as in prior year figures.
above but also after operating capital Elsewhere in the Annual Report & Accounts we expenditure.
Current year underlying refer toorganic operating profit and margin, as cash conversion is 99% on this basis.
this measure better reflects like-for-like business performance year-on-year.
Underlying margin is included here for consistency with previous reports and to provide a five year comparator.
Organic operating profit is underlying operating profit further adjusted to excludethe contribution of current and prior year acquisitions, disposals and products held for sale.
For a reconciliation of underlying margin to organic margin, turn to page 45.
Performance 5% organic revenue growth represents an Underlying profit margin of 27.5% reflects a Underlying cash conversion has decreased important milestone in demonstrating that we reduction in overheads that previously supported by 5% this year as a result of foreign are on track to achieve our organic revenue non-core products that we disposed of last year, exchange movements and an increase growth target in 2015 of 6%.
The increase alongside improved profitability as a result of the in working capital.
in growth this year was primarily due to an increase in organic revenue, and disciplined cost acceleration in the rate of recurring revenue management.
We remain committed to delivering growth to 7%, up from 6% last year.
This was a 28% margin in 2015 in line with our stated driven by good progress with our software financial targets.
38 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Customer KPI Underlying EPS growth Recurring contract renewal rate 8% 83% 16% 83% 82% 81% 81% 81% 14% 12% 8% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 -2% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Underlying basic EPS is defined as underlying The number of contracts successfully renewed in the year as a percentage profit after tax divided by the weighted average of those that were due for renewal.
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as treasury shares.
Underlying profit after tax is defined as profit attributable to owners of the parent excluding: Recurring items including amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisitionrelated items, fair value adjustments and imputed interest Non-recurring items that managementjudge to be one-off or non-operational All of these adjustments are net of tax.
The impact of foreign exchange is neutralised in prior year figures.
For a reconciliation of underlying basic EPS to statutory basic EPS, turn to page 46.
Underlying EPS growth primarily reflects a Our recurring contract renewal rate has been consistently high at over decrease in the weighted average share base 80% for a number of years, which is testament to the value customers place due to the repurchase of shares during the year, on support.
and a reduction in the effective rate of tax.
Software subscription relationships have higher rates of renewal compared to This offsets higher finance costs resulting from support of around 90%.
Our subscription success this year has driven a shift our move to a 1x net debt to EBITDA ratio and a in the mix towards these higher quality relationships, which has led to an decrease in underlying operating profit following increase in the overall renewal rate of 1%.
the sale of non-core products last year.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 39 Principal risks and uncertainties Balancing risks and rewards Through our risk management processes, we manage risks as we execute on our strategic and business plans.
Our risks Risks can materialise and impact on both the achievement of business strategy and the successful running of our business.
A key element in achieving our strategy and maintaining services to customers is the management of these risks.
Our risk management strategy is therefore to support the successful running of the business by identifying and managing risks to an acceptable level and delivering assurances on this.
How we identify risk Our risk identification processes seek to identify risks from both a top down strategic perspective and a bottom up local operating company perspective.
Audit Committee Group Board Group Risk and Executive Committee Assurance Director Regional management Country CEOs The Board Country CEOs The Board has overall responsibility for risk management, the setting Country CEOs are responsible for the identification, reporting and of risk appetite and the implementation of the risk management policy.
ongoing management of risks in their respective countries.
Country The Board reviews the output from the Group Risk Report with specific CEOs facilitate local risk assessment exercises to review the key strategic focus on the top three risks.
risks and to identify top local risks within their country.
The outputs of these assessment exercises are sent to regional management and The Audit Committee the Group Risk and Assurance Director for review and challenge.
The Audit Committee reviews and challenges the Group Risk Report, Regional management which is then submitted to the Board.
It reviews all risks at each meeting and ensures adequate assurance is obtained over the risks that are Regional management are responsible for the reporting, challenge and identified.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for the independent ongoing management of risks in their respective regions.
Regional review and challenge of the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management, with support from the Group Risk and Assurance Director, management approach.
review and challenge the risk information from the countries and agree the regional response to the key strategic risks and the top regional risks.
Executive Committee Group Risk and Assurance Director The Executive Committee is responsible for the identification, reporting and ongoing management of risks and for the stewardship of the The Group Risk and Assurance Director is responsible for the facilitation risk management approach.
The Executive Committee identifies and and implementation of the risk management approach throughout Sage.
assesses the key strategic risks to the Group on an annual basis.
The The Group Risk and Assurance Director consolidates the regional risk outputs of the assessment are sent to the country CEOs for inclusion in reports and creates a Group Risk Report containing the responses to the their local risk assessment exercises.
In addition, the Group Risk Report is key strategic risks and the top local risks for Sage as a whole.
The Group reviewed and agreed by the Executive Committee prior to submission to Risk Report is sent to the Executive Committee for review prior to the Audit Committee and Board.
submission to the Audit Committee and Board.
40 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements y A f i n t a n l y e s d e I How we manage risk Our risk appetite Our risk management process has been built to identify, We use risk appetite as shown below to ensure the appropriate focus evaluate, analyse and mitigate significant risks to the is placed on the correct risks.
Identified risks are scored on a gross achievement of our business objectives.
and a net risk basis using our predefined scoring matrix.
Risks are then prioritised for mitigation based on both of these scores and using our risk appetite.
The top risks, currently three, are reviewed by the Board on an annual basis, with prioritised risks below the top three being reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Probable Likely Risk management process Possible Unlikely Minor Moderate Major Critical Impact This year we have aligned our risk reporting with our risk Ultimate risk and is unacceptable.
Risk treatment is required as soon as possible.
management process in order to give a more holistic view of our risk landscape.
Significant risk and is unacceptable.
Risk treatment is required within reasonable timeframes.
Identify the principal risk Moderate risk and is acceptable.
However, risk treatment may be considered in Evaluate the level of risk the longer term.
Analyse the potential impact Mitigate to lower risk exposure Limited risk and is acceptable.
No further action is required.
Turn over the page to see our principal risks and associated mitigations.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 41 E e v t a a l g u i a t i t M e Likelihood
