STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Report & Accounts 2014 17 risks and uncertainties risk, make an assessment of the residual integrated risk management teams being able to embrace increased levels and grouP risk PhilosoPhy of risk and pursue more opportunities, which likelihood and impact of each risk having a material impact on the operations ability The Board is ultimately responsible for should also allow the Group to increase its rate managing risk, and for the implementation of performance delivery without exceeding its to achieve its objectives, and to record any improvement measures that are targeted to of effective risk management procedures and risk appetite.
Across the Group, strengthen the operations internal control The Group aims to embed its risk management environment around each risk.
The results these are designed to align with the UK procedures within its existing business Corporate Governance Codes guidance on of these reviews are consolidated at divisional processes and corporate governance structure, level with an accompanying divisional overlay, Risk Management and Internal Control.
The rather than impose an inefficient administrative Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and divisional Principal Risk lists are then burden on its operations.
At a minimum, the reviewed by the Executive Committee.
the effectiveness of the Groups internal control Group aims to ensure that any individually systems that were in operation during the year, significant event that: Following review by the Executive Committee, and the fulfilment of this responsibility is a risk questionnaire is compiled and circulated described in the Audit Committee report on 1. h as or may result in the potential to to each Board member, who is required to pages 40 to 43. compromise its ability to achieve its make an individual assessment of the potential objectives: or An integrated risk management framework significance of each risk.
Completed continues to evolve within the Group, aimed 2. c ould lead to a material breach of policies questionnaires are reviewed and discussed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness and procedures: or at the Groups June Board meeting, following of the Groups risk management procedures.
which a Group Principal Risk list is compiled 3. c ould impact the delivery of earnings Seniors risk philosophy, embodied in a Risk and presented for review and discussion by the materially at a local operational level Philosophy Statement which has been rolled Board at the July Board meeting.
The final step out across the Group, is based around an i s identified, reported on and dealt with in the process is an update of all Principal Risks acknowledgement that profits are in part the through the Groups risk management as part of the annual budget-setting process reward for risk taking, and therefore risk should procedures.
and ultimately presented to the Board at its be embraced and managed effectively within January meeting.
In between formal updates, risk assessment and risk each business unit.
The Group aims to take the Board monitors progress in the rePorting ProCedures a relatively conservative approach to risk management of individual risks via ongoing The Group has a well-established annual management, targeting a developmental regular executive and divisional reporting process for identifying, evaluating and approach that is evolutionary rather than procedures and review and discussion at managing its significant risks.
Pursuit of opportunities is Board meetings.
starts in April each year with a risk review and encouraged, within an effective risk assessment conducted at each of the Groups PrinCiPal grouP risks management framework, as an essential Overall, the Groups risk profile was largely operations, facilitated by local senior component of a high-performance culture.
A Principal Risk list is generated unchanged in 2014 when compared to 2013. is acknowledged that strong risk management The principal potential risks and uncertainties, from each review, with individual risks assigned procedures are likely to enhance senior to the categories of Strategic, Operational, together with actions that are being taken to leadership decision-making capabilities, Compliance or Financial Reporting in nature.
mitigate each risk, are set out overleaf.
strengthen accountability and enhance Local management is required to record details stewardship of the Groups assets.
In turn of controls that are in place to mitigate each this can be expected to result in management the board exeCutive Committee divisional management risk management frameWork Key Responsibilities Operational Oversight 2nd line of Defence Top Down and Bottom Up Approach on Risk Has overall responsibility for ensuring the Group Development and implementation of strategy, Oversight from the Board and Executive Committee risk management process and systems of internal operational plans policies, procedures and budgets on all Risk Identification, Assessment and Mitigation control are robust and continuously monitored is undertaken at all levels within the Group Monitoring of operating and financial performance Formulates the Groups Strategy and defines the Three Lines of Defence on Assurance Assessment and control of risk including Groups Risk Appetite & Culture The Third Line of Defence Independent Assurance emerging risks The Second Line of Defence Oversight Activities Monitors the nature, extent and management of Prioritisation and allocation of resources The First Line of Defence Operational Management risk exposure for the Groups Principal Risks grouP CorPorate funCtions Provides direction and sets the tone on the Lead and co-ordinate Group Risk and Control importance of risk management related processes.
Board Sub Committees perform oversight Assesses and supports the Group in mitigating activities in line with their Terms of Reference The Board the Groups risks including: policies and procedures, Remuneration Committee HSE Committee Group Audit specialist support, control self assessments and Committee Nominations Committee Treasury Committee business reviews grouP audit Committee Executive Committee business units Divisional Management Supports and challenges the Board in monitoring risk Operational Management 1st line of Defence Group Corporate Functions exposure in line with its Terms of Reference Business Units identify, assess and mitigate their key risks.
Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management & internal control systems Risk Assessments are reviewed and discussed by Business Units Divisional Management.
Independent Assurance the 3rd line of Defence External Audit Other External Assurance Oversight & Independent Assurance Risk Ownership & Control Group Internal Audit www.
com | Senior plc 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 risks and uncertainties continued Increased risk Decreased risk Constant risk risk management actions to mitigate risk New aircraft platform delays Significant shipset content has been secured The Group monitors programme development and launch timing of new aircraft platforms very on a number of new aircraft platforms closely, utilising internal customer relationships and market intelligence.
currently under development or in initial A cautious approach is taken to both capital investment in new programmes, to minimise the time phases of production.
These include the between installation and utilisation of new capital equipment, and to the projected build rates and Airbus A350, A320neo, the Boeing 737 associated revenue in financial projections.
MAX, Bombardiers CSeries regional jet The growing breadth of Seniors exposure to a comprehensive and diverse range of aerospace and L85 business jet.
Delays in the launch and land vehicle platforms, together with its broad exposure in global industrial markets, means or ramp-up in production of these platforms that the Groups future organic growth profile is not overly dependent on any individual new could have a material adverse impact on aircraft platform.
the Groups rate of organic growth.
Note: On 20 January 2015, the Group was notified by Bombardier of the decision to suspend, for an indefinite period of time, the development of its L85 business jet programme.
Importance of emerging markets Customers desire to move manufacture of The Groups strategy of developing a portfolio of high value-added engineering manufacturing components to lower-cost countries could companies has meant that over time it has generally evolved away from products where the render the Groups operations uncompetitive direct threat of lower-cost country manufacture is significant.
and have an adverse impact on profitability.
The Group successfully employs a strategy of retaining commercial and engineering expertise close In addition, certain customers require global to customers locations, principally in North America and Europe.
This enables effective support to programme support as they respond to be readily given to its customers, whilst increasing manufacturing at above-average growth rates in increasing domestic demand in a number lower-cost country locations where it makes sense to do so and with customer agreement.
The Group has an increasing presence in emerging markets via its facilities in Mexico, Thailand, Czech Republic, South Africa, Brazil, India and China.
This footprint was expanded during 2014 with the acquisition of Upeca, with operations in Malaysia and China.
Each of these operations, individually and in combination, has a healthy number of viable opportunities for further expansion either to supply domestic markets or to support customers increasingly global needs.
Price-down pressures Customer pricing pressure is an ongoing The Group works closely with its customers to find innovative ways to produce products at a challenge within our industries, driven by lower cost thus helping them to meet pricing challenges.
the expectations of airlines, land vehicle The Group is able to consider bundles of products that in total help achieve customer operators and governments seeking to pricing challenges.
purchase more competitively priced Where appropriate, the Group is able to pass work to some of its lower-cost facilities such as products in the future.
This will continue Mexico, Thailand, Czech Republic, South Africa, Brazil, India, China and Malaysia with a view to put pressure on the Groups future to help satisfy customer challenges.
Acquisitions Failure to execute an effective acquisition Consistently strong free cash flow generation gives the Group capacity to continue to execute programme would have a significant impact a targeted acquisition programme.
on the Groups ability to generate long-term The Group has a well-established acquisition framework that includes proven valuation, value for shareholders.
due diligence and integration processes.
Post-acquisition reviews are performed on key acquisitions, comprising a full retrospective review of each deal process, integration effectiveness, operational performance compared to expectation and sharing of lessons learned with the Board and across the senior management team.
Strategy An appropriately formulated, communicated Focus is placed on the strategic planning process, to ensure that the Group formulates the most and effectively executed strategy is essential appropriate strategy to capitalise, over time, on the significant breadth of potential growth in order to avoid the risk of inappropriate opportunities in its chosen market sectors.
allocation of resources and failure to deliver The process includes regular strategy sessions at operational, Executive Committee and on long-term performance goals.
com | Senior plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Report & Accounts 2014 19 risk management actions to mitigate risk Programme participation Long-term growth in demand, including The Group has developed a portfolio of businesses that are exposed to markets which exhibit participation in future development fundamental long-term growth characteristics.
programmes in the Groups major markets, Customer value is driven through constructive and co-operative relationships with key customers is an essential foundation for future growth.
in each market, providing innovative customer solutions and quality products delivered on time Failure to secure profitable new programme and in line with specifications.
wins could have a severe impact on the The Group ensures that its operations are sufficiently well capitalised to be able to bid competitively Groups long-term performance.
on new programme opportunities, and maintains close control over operating costs to ensure that operations remain competitive on existing programmes.
The Group utilises an internal contract approval process, comprising both financial and non-financial analyses, to ensure that bids are submitted and won at acceptable margin levels.
Employee retention An inability to attract, develop and retain Capable, empowered and highly engaged individuals are a key asset of the business.
The strong high-quality individuals in key management reputation of the Group helps attract experienced senior executives from within the industry.
positions could severely affect the long-term The Group sponsors the development and training of key managers, at all levels, through an success of the Group.
increasingly comprehensive in-house management development programme.
Senior management turnover ratios remain low, a further indication of success in this important area.
Corporate governance breach Corporate governance legislation such as the The Group has well-established governance policies and procedures in all key areas, including a UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Group Code of Business Conduct, anti-bribery procedures, a Health and Safety Charter, and various Practices Act, regulations and guidance such policies and procedures over the review and reporting of risk management and internal control as the UK Corporate Governance Code and activities.
global health and safety regulations are The Group Finance Director, the Group Company Secretary and the Head of Internal Audit increasingly complex and onerous.
A serious collectively retain principal responsibility for reviewing governance changes that may have breach of these rules and regulations could an impact on the Group.
have a significant impact on the Groups Governance updates are provided to the Board and Executive Committee at appropriate intervals, reputation, lead to a loss of confidence on and to key operational management.
Recent examples of developments in this area include the part of investors, customers or other formulation of a Business Continuity Framework, IT Policy Guidelines, and anti-bribery training.
stakeholders and ultimately have a material adverse impact on the Groups enterprise value.
Financing and liquidity The Group could have insufficient financial The Groups overall treasury risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of resources to fund its growth strategy or meet financial markets, and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial its financial obligations as they fall due.
Compliance with financial policies and exposure limits are reviewed by the Groups Treasury Committee on a regular basis.
The Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange risk arising on operations trading activities in foreign currencies, however, it does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities, and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows, matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities and paying close attention to the projected level of headroom under the covenants contained in its committed borrowing facilities.
During 2014 cash conversion remained strong and a tranche of private placement debt was repaid in October.
The Group also renegotiated its 60m revolving credit facility, which was due to expire in 2016, achieving an extension to 2019 on more commercially favourable terms.
For further details see Note 20.
Global cyclical downturn The potential adverse impact on the Group of The Group is well positioned in its key aerospace, industrial, and emission-related sectors of land significant demand declines in key markets vehicle markets, where increasingly stringent legislation should ensure that long-term demand for arising from the consequences of either the Groups products remains healthy.
future sovereign debt issues, ongoing Through diversity of its end-market exposures and a robust financing position, the Group remains government austerity measures, and or well placed to be able to withstand potential negative consequences that may arise from a further political instability remains significant.
