Strategic Report Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties contract being triggered, as well as reputational In our business, we face many risks and damage leading to a decrease in business being uncertainties which we mitigate and undertaken with one or several customers, and an adverse effect on our financial condition, or operating manage through our Board approved or financial results and on our ability to win new risk management processes.
Group Risk Register identifies the We are party to a number of contracts that are principal risks facing the business as multi-year, fixed price, carry strict performance a whole, including those that are conditions and or contain volumetric or other risks relating to original bid assumptions that have proven managed directly at the Group level incorrect and we expect to result in losses, as a result through our Executive Committee of which we have determined the contracts to be and reported to the plc Board.
In the second half of 2014 there were several contracts where operational issues and or discussions During 2014, we commenced a three-year programme with our customers resulted in us substantially revising to refresh our overall risk management approach to upwards our estimates of the costs to complete our better support the development and ongoing obligations under such contracts or lowering our performance of the global business.
A risk based independent enhanced our policies, processes and systems and review of our principal contracts to identify lossgave more clarity on roles and responsibilities, making contracts against a specific scope revealed governance and reporting.
In 2015 we will continue that we have a number of contracts that have, or are training our business leaders and employees, improve expected to result in, or could result in material loss, risk management capacity and capability in our global which we have determined to be onerous.
The costs to business, and improve visibility of risk profiles focusing complete these contracts outweigh the financial on management information and decision-making.
In benefit, and they are, therefore loss-making resulting 2016, we will evaluate our progress and ensure that our in lower than expected returns and economic damage risk management programme is fully embedded at all for which provisions have been made in the accounts, levels of the business to the contract level and within and there is a risk that the losses damage our all Group functions.
The scope of contract reviews was based on a structured interview process with the relevant In 2014, we also undertook a review of the risks and business and divisional teams addressing contractual uncertainties affecting our business which resulted in features, operational and financial performance and changes to the key risks on the Group Risk Register.
outlook, each contract being categorised as high, Summarised below are the key risks and uncertainties medium or low risk based on the level of risk, that face us: our operations, people, revenue, profit uncertainty and judgement existing in each contract.
High risk contracts underwent a full scope review Contract non-compliance and including a full financial review of the contract, a review of the accounting model including challenging and contractperformance stress testing the assumptions as well as a contract Our success depends on our ability to write contracts balance sheet review.
Those contracts deemed to be which balance risk and reward and meet the medium risk were subject to a review of specific contractual requirements into which we have entered contract risks as well as a focus on the financial impact with our customers, which could be through direct of the key contractual clauses and a review of the delivery of services, through the use of subcontract balance sheet.
Where a contract was deemed contractors, or through Joint Venture consortium low risk, no further work was undertaken.
We are subject to risks associated with been practical to complete a full legal, operational and bidding for and entering into contracts most of which financial review of every contract, given the scale, are multi-year and or fixed price contracts, including complexity and volume of the contracts and the cost correctly assessing and agreeing pricing terms that and time that this would have taken.
No assurance can provide for a level of return on the contract be given that the onerous provisions that we have appropriate to the risks involved, accurately recorded will be sufficient to cover the losses anticipating the costs of strict performance conditions, ultimately incurred under the contracts for which employee requirements and other obligations, onerous provisions have been made or that further correctly evaluating contractual and operational risks, provisions for such contracts will not be required in the and the risks of potential early termination or change future or that the costs of fulfilling other contracts to of scope of contracts by customers.
Failure to bid and which any member of the Serco Group is a party will negotiate performance criteria and contract provisions not exceed the actual or expected economic benefit that can be operationally delivered at the price under such contracts resulting in the need for further estimated can result in losses.
Unclear, ambiguous, onerous provisions for such contracts.
Inevitably, the misread, misinterpreted contract obligations and review of contracts was carried out at a specific point expectations of contract performance can result in in time and with the information available at that time, perceived or actual contract non-compliance and or which may not prove to have been entirely accurate or poor performance.
The same is true if we, or our complete.
Further, the review could not cover all sub-contractors or consortium partners do not have possible circumstances on all contracts under which the right expertise, tools and resources adequately to losses could in the future possibly be incurred.
manage and monitor compliance with contract Contracts that have not been reviewed may in future obligations and expectations.
These potential failures become loss-making: and losses on contracts that could result in the cancellation of a contract, claims for have been reviewed may turn out to be worse if, for loss, or compensation arrangements under the 15 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued example, the review was based on information which is To win our share of new opportunities as well as our subsequently superseded or revised in light of any key rebids we must clearly understand our customers further review work undertaken or circumstances and their requirements.
We must be aware of our under the contract change.
Similarly, we may have competitors and their strengths and weaknesses.
over-estimated the provisions taken with respect to one or more of our contracts.
The onerous provisions Additionally, our customers must understand our that have been made are managements best strategy and our strengths.
These elements, combined judgement at the time of the review.
The onerous with the building of strong credible teams, are provisions are subject to change if additional essential to us developing the compelling propositions information comes to light in the future.
If additional needed to win.
provisions and or increased costs need to be recognised in the future, this may result in lower Failure to realise the pipeline of opportunities, returns and economic, reputational and other impacts particularly having invested time and money in the associated with onerous contracts, which could bidding process, could impact our ability to deliver on materially adversely affect our business, financial the strategy developed in our 2014 Strategy Review.
condition, results of operations and prospects.
If any of our material contracts became loss-making, and an The 2014 Strategy Review has directed the business onerous provision covering multiple years of future focus to where we are strongest, which is a supplier of losses under such contract becomes necessary, such services to governments and public sector service an onerous provision might have a significant impact providers.
Better targeting of our pipeline of on a single years operating profits, as can be seen opportunities will allow us to make more effective and from the results for 2014. efficient use of our bid resources as we strengthen our bid pipeline.
We have undertaken a reappraisal of Group policies for bidding, contract management and a review of We have put in place improved bid management compliance has been undertaken as well as improving policies, strengthened the criteria, processes and level the review and governance of bids.
The resulting of scrutiny for Divisional and Group level management refreshed policies clarify our expectations of contract review of all bids and rebids, especially those that are management and provide for enhanced contract critical to our success.
We have ensured stronger risk management training.
Contract performance management earlier in the bid process to help identify monitoring tools are being developed to assist in potential onerous performance criteria and contract providing clarity on contract performance targets, provisions as well as, transition and operational contractual obligations and commitments.
management accounting systems are in the process of being put in place to report monthly the status of We invest in appointing high calibre people for our key contracts up to Group management more accurately.
bids: train our bidding teams to improve competency and performance: and monitor our results through effective management reporting.
Failure to win Material Bids Rebids We depend and will continue to depend heavily on large contracts with a relatively limited number of Major information security breach major government customers and other public sector We collect and retain confidential information in bodies and agencies for a substantial proportion of computer systems regarding our business dealings our revenue, some of which expired in 2014 or are and our customers, service end-users and suppliers.
subject to contract expiration, rebidding, contract The secure processing, maintenance and transmission extension or renegotiation in 2015.
If such customers of this information is critical to our operations.
We decrease the amount of business they undertake with must comply with restrictions on the handling of us for any reason, or if the relationship with such sensitive information including personal and customer customers were impaired, or we sustain damage to our information.
This is a heightened risk, particularly with reputation, or we are subject to negative publicity, we respect to government contracts, due to the sensitive could lose business across our customer base and face and confidential nature of government data.
Such damage could also include losing renewals and extensions of existing We and our appointed third party service providers contracts.
The realisation of the pipeline of are vulnerable to a major information security breach opportunities for new bids and rebidding for existing resulting in the loss or compromise of sensitive contracts can involve a lengthy and costly bidding information or wilful damage resulting in the loss of process.
Bid and rebid success rates determine how service.
We provide high profile services, which adds much of the pipeline of opportunities is realised and to our attractiveness as a potential target.
The threats turned into profitable business and how much existing facing sensitive information managed by the Group business is retained.
Contracts with national and local increased in 2014 with malicious and high profile governments and public sector bodies and agencies attacks against major brands across the globe by or major commercial customers may contain well-known Hacktivist groups.
Alongside this threat is unfavourable or onerous provisions.
Furthermore, as a the more insidious and low profile attack instigated by supplier to public sector bodies and agencies and certain foreign governments and their proxies to government regulated customers, we are subject to obtain information for defence or economic procurement rules and regulations and procurement advantage.
delays that may increase our bidding, performance and compliance costs and could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.
16 Strategic Report A major information security breach could have a If any Serco Group entity enters into a deferred significant negative impact on our reputation.
This prosecution agreement with the Serious Fraud Office, impact could result in the loss of new or existing potential outcomes could include significant financial business by disqualification from future work, contract penalties and discretionary debarment from pretermination, and heavy financial penalties causing a qualifying for future contracts with UK Government negative impact on our strategic objectives.
Such debarment would be at the discretion of breaches are costly to rectify and could dilute a contracting authority to which the relevant Serco shareholder returns and result in criminal or civil Group entity submits a pre-qualification questionnaire action: contract and business external accreditations for any given bid or rebid.
being withdrawn: and significant media attention scrutiny, all of which could materially adversely affect Any discretionary debarment could be removed if we the business, financial condition, results of operations were able, under the self-cleansing provisions of the and prospects.
Public Contract Regulations 2015, to provide sufficient evidence to a contracting authority to demonstrate its Continued investment in our internal Cyber Security reliability as a public contractor with the UK programme, known as Think Privacy, has allowed us Government.
to mitigate our vulnerability to the accidental loss of sensitive corporate or customer data.
To provide a It is possible that further actions beyond those being proactive cyber defence and risk reduction capability implemented under the Corporate Renewal for the Group, our Cyber Defence Programme Programme may need to be taken by us to remove any incorporates a Global Security Operations Centre, the mandatory or discretionary debarment, or that such investment for which was approved in 2014, Cyber debarment will not be removed for a significant period Essentials training and delivery of supporting security of time.
If the Group faces any criminal convictions, debarment consequences or enters into a deferred prosecution SFO investigation agreement, any such outcome could result in As we have disclosed before we are under significant fines and have a material adverse impact on investigation by the Serious Fraud Office.
In November the Groups ability to contract with the UK 2013, the UKs Serious Fraud Office announced that it Government and its reputation which would, in turn, had opened an investigation, which remains ongoing, materially adversely affect its business, financial into our Groups Electronic Monitoring Contract.
We condition, results of operations and prospects.
are cooperating fully with the Serious Fraud Offices investigation which is still in the early stages and it is In addition, a criminal conviction of a Serco entity or of not possible to predict the outcome, however, in the one or more of the Groups current or former event that the Serious Fraud Office decides to employees would allow the Ministry of Justice to prosecute, the range of possible adverse outcomes is re-open the 64.3m settlement agreed in respect of any one or a combination of the following: i that the certain issues arising under the Electronic Monitoring Serious Fraud Office prosecutes the individuals Contract.
In such circumstances, the UK Government involved: ii that the Serious Fraud Office prosecutes may seek additional payments from Serco.
the Serco Group entities involved: or iii that the Serious Fraud Office and the relevant Serco Group Upon any such conviction or possibly following entry entities enter into a deferred prosecution agreement.
into a deferred prosecution agreement, the Group If the Serious Fraud Office decides to prosecute the would be subject to enhanced scrutiny with respect to individuals involved then it is possible that contracting its other contracts with the UK Government, including authorities will take the view that we should be subject potential designation as a High Risk supplier by the to discretionary debarment from future contracts with Cabinet Office, which could result in the UK UK Government entities.
If the Serious Fraud Office Government reducing the additional work given to the decides to prosecute the entities involved, potential Group under its existing UK Government contracts outcomes are that a the Serco Group entities involved and requiring the Group to undertake certain further defend the action successfully, or b the Serco Group organisational actions to remove such designation.
entities involved are convicted, resulting in financial Following such conviction, the UK Government could penalties and mandatory debarment from prepotentially also terminate certain contracts qualifying for future contracts with UK Government it has with us.
Under the self-cleansing provisions of the Public Contract Regulations 2015, any such Serco We will continue to cooperate with the Serious Fraud entity could provide evidence to the relevant Offices investigation.
contracting authority to demonstrate its reliability as public contractor with the UK Government despite the conviction.
If such contracting authority considers such evidence to be sufficient, we would not be excluded from a contract bid or rebid.
17 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued The 2014 Strategy Review aims to ensure our portfolio Political and economic risk and geographic diversity to spread the risk as changes The sustainability of our existing and future business to political policies follow different cycles in different with governments is dependent not just on normal regions.
We are primarily focused on developed stable government but also on a favourable policy markets with strong and established legal systems climate to private sector provision of public services.
In providing protection from changes in contract terms.
addition, as a supplier to governments, our business Dedicated teams in each region monitor the political model depends on the development and maintenance landscape and government activities and report on of trusted relationships with politicians and officials in government policy changes and the political government.
Outsourcing of governmental activities environment in which we operate.
Our presence across and public services is inherently controversial in many four regions allows us to move from lower growth markets and geographies.
Our government customers economies to higher growth economies and focus on are also affected by financial, regulatory, political areas where political polices are more aligned with our constraints or policy changes.
The business strategy is managed through Divisional Boards that closely monitor and A substantial part of our business is, therefore, reflect changes in government policy and budgets in susceptible to adverse changes in the global economy, their delivery of the strategy.
fiscal and monetary policy, political stability, political leadership, budget priorities, the perception and Rights Issue attitude of governments and the wider public to If the proposed Rights Issue does not proceed and we outsourcing, and policy and economic conditions.
Any are unable to obtain further waivers of our financial of these could result in decisions not to, or no longer covenants under our financing agreements, and we are to, outsource services, delays in placing work, unable to avoid a breach of our financial covenants or cancellation, abandonment or significant reduction in cross-defaults through the successful implementation scope, pressure on pricing or margins, withdrawal of of one or more funding alternatives including projects, early termination of contracts, lower contract proposed disposals, shareholders are at risk of losing spend than anticipated or the adoption of less all or a substantial amount of their investment in the favourable contracting models.
Such factors could Group and the Group is at risk of not being able to have a significant negative impact on the number, size, continue as a going concern.
scope, type, timing and duration of contracts and orders, in particular those relating to the provision of We have agreed with the lenders and the noteholders public services, maintaining and improving public to make certain amendments to the terms of our infrastructure, immigration, health, the criminal justice existing finance agreements, which will become system, defence, and the attitude to outsourcing of effective once we receive the net proceeds of the services and activities to the private sector, particularly Rights Issue and use the net proceeds of the Rights in the UK, Europe, Australia, the Middle East and the Issue to pay down a portion of the amounts US.
outstanding under existing financings agreements.
In the event that the Rights Issue does not proceed, We operate in politically and socially sensitive sectors however, we will be unable to pay down amounts and our activities are therefore subject to high degree outstanding under these financing arrangements.
of political and social scrutiny.
Failure to satisfy the Furthermore, if the Rights Issue does not proceed, the requirements or targets set by government clients, or amendments will not become effective as they are to meet the expectations of the public, could have an conditional upon us receiving the net proceeds of the adverse effect on our reputation, business and Rights Issue and the payment by us of 225m under operations.
In addition, adverse publicity in these the US Note Purchase Agreements to the noteholders sectors either generally or experienced by other and confirmation by us that we will pay down 225m service providers could have an adverse impact on the or, if less, the amount then drawn under the Facility public perception of us.
Agreement to the lenders from such proceeds.
In these circumstances, although we still expect to be Political and economic risks also impact the amount of able to meet the financial covenant tests under our new business available for us to bid in our chosen existing finance agreements on 31 May 2015 unless markets.
Challenging economic conditions and further waivers or amendments are granted, we expect shrinking government expenditure, rising public debt, that we would breach our financial covenant tests and and high rates of unemployment could result in a lack cross default thereafter.
of new investment by certain governments, increased competition and new competitors, and an increasingly price-driven environment.
Other factors that can contribute to fewer bid prospects are changes in procurement requirements or eligibility to bid criteria, failure to comply with qualification to bid criteria, delays to procurement and award or increased promotion of new entrants to the market as a consequence of public sector procurement competitive policies.
18 Strategic Report Following any such breach the lenders or noteholders Also given the nature of our work and the countries we would be entitled to demand the accelerated work within, we are at risk of being accused of ethical repayment in full of any amounts outstanding, breaches including relating to bribery and corruption, including any interest due and the payment of a human rights issues or unethical behaviour by either make-whole amount payable to noteholders, and we our people or third parties not directly under our do not expect that we would have the funds available control subcontractors, consortium partners, to repay such amounts at that time unless we are able consultants and or agents.
These accusations would to implement funding alternatives such as proposed challenge the integrity of our business and could have disposals.
In such circumstances, in the absence of an adverse impact on our reputation and brand.
being able to successfully agree or implement any such alternatives, we would be unable to continue as a To mitigate this risk we have developed clear policies going concern.
on ethical issues including anti-bribery and corruption, protection of human rights, respect for competition As a result, if the Rights Issue does not proceed and law, avoidance of money laundering, conflicts of the amended finance agreements do not become interest and employment of ex-government officials.
effective, we would first seek to negotiate further Alongside this we have refreshed our code of conduct waivers of our financial covenants in order to avoid any www.
com codeofconduct and appointed a such breach of financial covenants and cross-default.
senior Ethics Officer at the Group level and ethics We may be unable to obtain such waivers either at all leads in each Division.
We have strengthened or without significant cost to us and the lenders and procedures on due diligence of third parties and noteholders would potentially demand to have ongoing monitoring of those relationships.
We have significant involvement in our business and operations spent time training our leaders and managers to better which could adversely affect implementation of our understand business ethics and how their behaviour new strategy or result in us changing our strategy.
Any impacts the ethical culture of the business and rolled such waivers would likely subject us to additional fees out training on our Code of Conduct and key or impose more onerous obligations on us.
Without compliance areas to all staff.
Through our policies, the proceeds of the Rights Issue, any covenant waivers processes and ongoing training we aim to make it under, or any other amendments of, the existing clear that Serco does not engage in and will not finance agreements would only be a short-term tolerate unethical behaviour and how our people can solution that would not fundamentally address our avoid such risk.
balance sheet and capitalisation issues.
Significant tactical programmes centred on effective reactive responses to operational issues and a Failure to act with integrity proactive process of brand rebuilding is underway to Integrity generates trust which is central to maintaining preserve our reputation.
We have controls and our reputation as a business.
A number of factors can processes in place to react to emerging issues based influence this including: how we manage our brand: on policy, clear guidelines, and internal networks.
compliance with legal requirements on ethical issues: and how we and those who work for us behave.
Failure to manage these effectively presents a risk that might People negatively impact our reputation, and from there People are at the core of our business at all levels of impact our ability to grow our business.
Underpinning our success is the significantly impact the economic value of our ability to attract and retain the right people in business, increase the risk of regulatory intervention leadership roles particularly in Executive and our ability to attract and retain talent.
Management, Contract Management and Bid Management.
The Group is dependent on its ability to 2014 has seen this risk remaining at an elevated level.
attract, train and retain its senior managers and highly There continue to be high levels of media scrutiny of skilled employees.
Employee engagement is our operations with incidents generating adverse fundamental to our success: engaged employees publicity which could impact on the perception of the deliver better service to our customers, are more Group held by customers, subcontractors and productive, and want to stay with us.
The critical area of risk for us is where motivate and engage employees can create a decline operational weakness or failure intersects with a highly in morale and an increase in labour turnover, which charged political environment.
may adversely affect our ability to win new and retain existing customers owing to a lack of appropriate skills and a reduction in customer satisfaction.
In turn this could impact integrity, brand and reputation, and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
19 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued A renewed framework for talent management is under We have revised our investment approval processes to development to identify the development needs of approve only those investments that support our new individuals and to identify successor candidates for strategy, and in particular to ensure that major bids are senior roles.
We continue to implement new strategies properly assessed, managed and supported.
Rigorous to improve employee engagement including Divisional and Business Unit performance reviews now employment engagement awareness for managers enable us to monitor progress against our new and employees, full cascade of our employee survey strategy goals.
Our ongoing review of capability and Viewpoint results and actions, and regular checks skills development in key areas such as business and communication with managers relating to actions development, transition and operations will ensure we arising from Viewpoint.
develop and maintain our core competencies, and the active transfer of knowledge and best practice in our pillars will grow expertise still further.
The delivery of Delivery of the Groups strategy the Corporate Renewal Programme with the The Groups strategy focuses us on our core accompanying revision of the Groups management competencies, built up over the last thirty years, as an systems to enhance controls and compliance, expert provider of services to governments and other self-assessment tools for contract managers and bodies who serve the public or protect their nations employee training on our policies, and enhanced interests.
Our focus on being a Public Services communication of our strategy begins our cultural Provider operating in a number of countries requires change journey and the achievement of employee us embark on a programme of change, which will result buy-in.
in our becoming smaller and more focused in order to resume profitable growth.
Failure of financial and commercialcontrols Failure to deliver our strategy may arise from failure to Strong financial and commercial controls are critical to execute the strategy: having the wrong strategy: or the the Groups ultimate success and underpin customer, impact of outside factors.
The Groups failure to supplier and shareholder trust and confidence in our deliver the new strategy, or the successful delivery of organisation.
the new strategy not achieving its intended results, could have a material adverse effect on our business, During 2014 the Group has issued a number of profit results of operations, financial condition and warnings and recognised substantial impairments in prospects.
Factors contributing to this risk including a the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible failure to implement cultural change successfully: assets, together with other adverse financial insufficient development of or maintenance of our core adjustments to the 2014 results all of which threatens competencies: a lack of speed of change: unrealistic or this confidence.
unclear expectations or a failure of employee buy-in, commitment or accountability: an inability to achieve A major finance transformation programme has the intended cost savings targets: a failure to develop commenced looking at the finance function end to a sufficient pipeline of new work or contracts: a failure end, from the contract to Division, from the shared to effectively win a fair share of new contract bids: a service centre to head office, and in so doing will map failure to effect the intended disposals or to make the processes to understand and mitigate the key disposals on unfavourable terms: and the possibility risks.
Given the nature of this initiative, there will be a that exiting the private sector may provide us with heightened risk of financial control issues as we insufficient opportunities.
change the processes and improve efficiency to reduce the overall cost of the function and at the same Our decentralised organisational structure contains an time improve its effectiveness.
element of operational risk, as the Group delegates considerable operational autonomy and responsibility A key deliverable of the finance transformation to our Divisions, and within the Divisions to line programme is to enhance our existing financial managers.
The Group is at risk of regional or local controls environment.
The programmes Steering managers not complying with the policies: of Board will oversee and approve all proposed changes accounting irregularities, accounting misstatements or prior to implementation and progress will be subject breaches or local legislation: there is also the risk that to close monitoring.
the Group will not be successful in monitoring contract performance, ensuring compliance to policy, updating controls or ensuring efficient and reliable IT systems.
Any of these could individually or collectively have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.
