Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Finance Review continued The table below provides an analysis of Trading Cash ventures.
The percentage conversion of Trading Profit Flow and provides the equivalent pre-interest and into Trading Cash Flow is also provided in this table pre-tax cash flows equivalent to Trading Profit.
This is and this is a measure of the efficiency of the business derived from the cash flow from operating activities in terms of converting profit into cash before taking excluding tax items and is shown after net capital account of the impact of interest, tax and exceptional expenditure and after dividends received from joint items.
2014 2013 Trading Cash Flow: Year ended 31December m m Cash flow from operating activities before exceptional items 103.5 111.3 Less: Tax received paid 0.1 18.8 Dividends from joint ventures 34.8 51.5 Proceeds from disposal of tangible and intangible assets 6.9 5.0 Purchase of intangible assets 20.0 27.8 Purchase of tangible assets 23.4 38.9 Trading Cash Flow 101.7 119.9 Trading Loss profit 632.1 257.4 Trading Profit cash conversion n a 46.6% Cash flow from operating activities, before exceptional should not exceed 3.5x and the ratio of EBITDA to items, was 103.5m and this was 7.8m lower than the interest expense should be greater than 3.0x.
In prior year, with the cash impact of the reduction in December 2014 the Group negotiated amendments to profit in large part offset by the improvement in these covenants for the 31 December 2014 covenant working capital and movements in non-cash items.
test broadly to exclude the effect of the Contract and Trading Cash Flow which is shown before the impact of Balance Sheet Reviews from the definition of EBITDA, exceptional items, tax and interest was 101.7m and to delay the delivery of the 31 December 2014 this was down 18.2m on the prior year reflecting the covenant test until 31 May 2015 and assuming the 7.8m lower operating cash flow and the 16.7m rights issue is completed, to apply the proceeds of the reduction in dividends from joint ventures, being proposed rights issue to reduce net debt.
In addition partly offset by reduced capital expenditure on to the above debt facilities the Group had a tangible and intangible assets.
The Trading profit conversion into Trading Cash flow Interest rate risk was 46.6% in 2013.
There was a Trading Loss in 2014 Given the profile of the Groups business, we have a and consequently the cash conversion rate is not preference for fixed rate debt.
Our treasury policies reported above, however excluding the charges noted require us to maintain a minimum proportion of fixed above from onerous contract provisions, asset rate debt as a proportion of overall net debt and for impairments and other charges totalling 745.3m the this proportion to increase as the ratio of EBITDA to conversion rate into Trading Cash Flow would have interest expense falls.
2013: 87% of the Groups net debt was at fixed rates.
Foreign exchange risk Treasury operations and risk management The Group is subject to currency exposure on the The Groups operations expose it to a variety of translation to GBP of its net investments in overseas financial risks that include liquidity, the effects of subsidiaries.
The Group manages this risk where changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest appropriate by borrowing in the same currency as rates and credit risk.
The Group has a centralised those investments.
Group borrowings are treasury operation whose principal role is to ensure predominantly denominated in GBP and USD.
that adequate liquidity is available to meet the Groups funding requirements as they arise and that the The Group manages its currency flows to minimise financial risk arising from the Groups underlying foreign exchange risk arising on transactions operations is effectively identified and managed.
denominated in foreign currencies and uses forward contracts if appropriate to hedge net currency flows.
Treasury operations are conducted in accordance with As part of the Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews we policies and procedures approved by the Board and have reviewed current hedge designations and reviewed annually.
Financial instruments are only associated documentation.
executed for hedging purposes: speculation is not permitted.
A monthly report is provided to senior Credit risk management and treasury operations are subject to Cash deposits and in-the money financial instruments periodic internal review.
give rise to credit risk on the amounts due from counterparties.
The Group manages this risk by Liquidity and funding limiting the aggregate amounts and their duration As at 31 December 2014, the Group had available based on external credit ratings of the relevant committed funding of 1,314.8m, comprising a counterparty.
730.0m revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks and 584.8m of private placement notes.
The principal financial covenants attaching to these facilities are that the ratio of net debt to EBITDA 60
