Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Risk management vital and we regularly carry out exercises Our approach to risk: Financial risks jointly with other agencies such as local Our approach to risk balances the need Like all businesses, we need to plan authorities, police and re services.
to efficiently mitigate the inherent risks future funding in line with business During the year we have also started an in our business and the opportunity to need.
This is part of our normal business extensive training programme to increase improve our performance through the planning process see Principal Risk the number of trained staff available to targeted management of selected risks.
The board receives regular respond to incidents.
updates relating to funding, solvency and Across the group, we manage risks within liquidity matters.
The key risks are reported to the Audit the overall governance framework which Committee and discussed at the board includes clear accountabilities, delegated Financial risks are discussed in detail on every six months in the form of risk maps.
authority limits and reward policies.
In addition, individual risks or specic These are designed to provide employees An example of risk management in practice risk topics are also discussed by the with an holistic view of effective We rely on our network of partners and board during the year.
We have regular risk management.
suppliers to enable us to continue our normal risk deep dives at our executive team Within Severn Trent Water, our approach operations.
Our ERM process recognises the meetings.
These take the form of updates risk of failure of the supply chain.
We have reects our status as a regulated from individual business teams within analysed which of the causes of failure would utility providing essential services and Severn Trent Water on their progress with impact on our essential operations in order operating as part of the Critical National to identify critical suppliers.
We work with improving controls and providing effective Infrastructure for the UK.
The nature of suppliers to understand their resilience plans mitigation for their most significant risks.
our Severn Trent Water business is such that there are some significant inherent We also analyse the consequences of Risk appetite supply chain failure on our operations to risks as illustrated in the section headed During the year the board held a series understand where we can diversify to use Principal risks.
We aim to have a strong of discussions about our appetite for risk alternative suppliers, or to temporarily adapt control framework in place to enable from four key perspectives: consistency our processes.
us to understand our risks and manage with our culture and values: delivering One of the most critical items for our them effectively.
operations is having sufficient chemicals to what our customers need: retaining allow us to treat water and waste water.
Although the Severn Trent Services the confidence of our investors and As a result of our understanding of the risk businesses are not generally regulated, compliance with the regulatory regime we have put in place a strategy team to we provide products and services in which we operate.
These perspectives ensure that we manage the procurement of for clients who operate in regulated were applied to eight specic areas: chemicals effectively.
Our analysis has also environments and as a result, we take helped us to decide on stock levels for our F Health, safety and wellbeing: essential supplies.
F Financing the business: Our Enterprise Risk F Ambition for growth: Management process: F Future competitive position: We use an established Enterprise Risk F Customer confidence: Management ERM process across the F Resilience of our network: group to assess and manage our most significant risks which are linked to our F Relationships with regulators: and corporate objectives.
Our ERM process covers all types of risk The board will continue to work on including operational, financial and legal rening our approach to risk appetite in and regulatory.
The board discussions We analyse both the possible causes of on risk appetite, in the context of our risk and what the impact would be if a strategy, inuence the outcome of the risk crystallised.
Using this process, we are ERM process and, in particular, how we able to consider the controls needed to establish an appropriate target position minimise the likelihood of risks occurring for each significant risk.
and those which can help to maximise our resilience to risks.
Our assessment of risks includes explicit consideration of the possible impact of the risk on the reputation of the group as a whole.
The understanding which we are able to gain from our ERM process allows us to put in place effective mitigation strategies.
Resilience of our services is 38 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Principal risks We have a number of significant risks in common with other companies operating water and sewage treatment works, distributionnetworks and related activities as shown on our business models on pages 14 to 15 and 26 to 27.
These include: F we, or our clients, operate in heavily regulated environments and are subject to many varied, complex and changing obligations.
As result, we face risks associated with non-compliance: F Severn Trent Water has an extensive network of assets and the failure of key individual or collections of these assets could result ina significant impact on our core business activities: F our processes are sensitive to the impacts of extreme weather events such as drought or ooding: F we face risks to the health, safety and wellbeing of our people, customers and contractors as a result of the nature of our operations: F our business operations depend on the effective performance of key supply chain partners: F we share a concern with many other businesses over our ability to fund long term pension promises: and F we share concerns with other businesses over access to funding and over the security of funds placed with counterparties.
Where appropriate, these are discussed in the table of principal risks below.
Which part of Severn What does it mean for us?
What are we doing to manage the risk?
Customer perception 1 We may be unable to Severn Trent Water Failure to deliver the service We have co-ordinated programmes of work improve and maintain customers expect will lead to underway across all parts of Severn Trent Water our levels of customer customer dissatisfaction.
As a to improve our processes and our technology service sufficiently regulated utility providing essential to enable us to deliver outstanding customer to deliver what our services, we recognise that service.
customers tell us they customer trust is vital for us to Our performance as measured by Ofwats SIM want.
However, we are If we are unable to provide the not improving as fast as some of our competitors level of service we want to our and our performance is still not as good as we customers we may also suffer would like.
financial penalties under Ofwats We have set ourselves more challenging targets Service Incentive Mechanism SIM.
and our customer experience improvement programmes are working to deliver these at a faster rate for our customers.
2 We may be unable to Group wide We may lose income as a result of Within Severn Trent Water our strategy reects take full advantage business retail customers moving the needs of different groups of customers of the opportunities to competitors or we may fail to whether large or small businesses and whether presented by the successfully grow our business by water is critical to their operations.
opening up of the being unable to develop sufficiently Across the group we are developing our service business retail market to attractive services to win new offering which includes, for example, services competition.
to help customers understand and reduce their water consumption.
We have established a dedicated programme, overseen by members of our Executive Committee, to put in place the systems, process and organisational changes needed to implement our strategy.
Legal and regulatory environment 3 We may be unable to Severn Trent Water The major part of our business, During the year we published the fourth in our effectively anticipate Severn Trent Water, operates in Changing Course series Changing Course and or inuence future a highly regulated environment.
through the Sustainable implementation of developments in the Whilst we are broadly content with the Water Framework Directive which sets out UK water industry the direction of changes proposed our view on an approach to implementation resulting in our business for our industry, there remains a risk which is affordable for our customers.
We also plans becoming that future changes could have a commissioned a report from KPMG looking at the unsustainable.
significant impact on Severn Trent challenges and possible solutions for sustainable Water.
investment to maintain the water infrastructure.
We will continue to engage with our peers, Ofwat and other regulators, UK Government departments and other stakeholders to inform the direction of regulatory policy where appropriate.
39 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Risk Management continued Ref What is the risk?
Legal and regulatory environment We are using our established business planning 4 We may be unable to Severn Trent Water We submit a business plan to Ofwat every five years.
At each of processes to update our plan for the 20152020 develop and deliver a these price reviews, we have a risk price review period.
We are engaging with Ofwat five year business plan that changes will be required to our in order to respond to the feedback from their Risk which is acceptable to plan to meet Ofwats expectations.
We will be providing an updated Ofwat, our customers, Once plans have been agreed, proposal in June which reects Ofwats feedback, other stakeholders and we face risks to delivery of the the Risk and Reward Guidance and the views of which is nanceable plan within the constraints and our customers.
within the assumptions assumptions that we have We are reviewing progress against the plan we have used.
agreed for the current price review period to Failure to achieve the targets set confirm that we expect to achieve the agreed out in our agreed plan for the targets or that we have included appropriate current price review period could compensation in our plan for the next period result in Ofwat being less willing where we have failed to fully deliver the required to support our business plan service levels and outputs.
submission for the next price review We will continue to engage with our customer period and could result in additional challenge group the Water Forum to ensure that funding requirements in the current we continue to respond to our customers when period.
5 The regulatory Group wide Our policies and processes must During the year, we have maintained our focus landscape is complex reect the current legal and on raising awareness of updated policies via and subject to ongoing regulatory environment and all e-learning, face to face coaching and general change.
There is a risk relevant employees must be kept communications.
These communications that processes may fail aware of new requirements.
Due include reminders of the principles of our Code or that our processes to the spread of our operations, ofConduct: Doing the right thing The Severn may not effectively keep and changes in activity and Trent way.
pace with changes in organisational structure this is not We are reviewing our methods of obtaining legislation leading to the always straightforward.
The group assurance in relation to compliance issues to risk of non-compliance.
as a whole may face censure for ensure we have a consistent approach for all non-compliance in an individual key obligations, including licence conditions, group company or a specic region competition legislation and anti-bribery and in which we operate.
Operations, assets and people 6 Our assets or processes Group wide The nature of our work requires Our ongoing strategy for health, safety and may fail resulting in our employees and contractors wellbeing covers improving the management injury to an employee, to undertake activities or to use system, addressing the causes of incidents and contractor or member of equipment which have potential improving health, safety and wellbeing.
Whilst we During the year, we have delivered a number of take every precaution to prevent improvements, including a new reporting system injury, asset failure or failure to and a new standard for local safety improvement follow agreed processes may result teams.
Our next steps include implementing in someone being hurt.
Specic new approaches to our safety standards and risk examples include failure of one of assessment.
our key assets such as a reservoir In addition to learning lessons from incidents, which could result in injury to wecontinue to measure improvements in culture customers or the public.
and the belief in our vision as well as substantial proactive safety activity to identify and remove hazards.
Our assets are subject to regular and rigorous monitoring, including independent inspection of our reservoirs to ensure that they remain safe and that maintenance work is undertaken where needed.
We will continue with our programme of safety improvements and with our rigorous monitoring and maintenance regimes for critical assets.
40 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Ref What is the risk?
Operations, assets and people We continue to focus on nding and clearing 7 We may fail to meet Severn Trent Water If we are unable to meet blockages in our sewers and on our education all of our regulatory operational performance targets, programmes to help customers understand how targets including we may be subjected to significant regulatory penalties either within to use our assets responsibly.
targets from Ofwat in the current price review period, or Our business plan for 20152020 includes relation to operational applied to the next price review.
considerable investment in our above ground performance of our Regulatory targets apply to all of water assets to improve the resilience of our assets resulting in our water treatment, distribution, networks, reduce interruptions and improve the regulatory penalties.
sewerage and sewage treatment service that our customers receive.
Measures are in place in relation to water quality, continuous supplies, sewer ooding, sewer collapses and pollution events.
8 Failure of certain key Severn Trent Water Some of our assets are critical to During the year, as part of our planning for the assets or processes the provision of water to large next price review period from 20152020, we may result in inability populations for which there are have undertaken extensive surveys of some to provide a continuous limited alternative means of of our largest, most critical assets.
As a result supply of quality water supply.
These assets are regularly we have a better understanding of the specic to large populations inspected and maintained and our points around our network which could present within our area, or in assessment of the overall condition a threat to our continuous operation.
This has damage to third party is good.
If a failure were to occur helped us to prioritise our spending requirements property.
the consequence would result in and informed our asset management plans temporary inability to continue to which drive investment in maintenance and serve our customers.
improvement of our assets in order to maintain In addition, our IT and telephony our service to customers.
systems are critical to our operations During the year we have progressed work on and failure of these systems, for implementing dual data centres to provide example materialisation of a increased resilience for our key IT systems.
cyber threat affecting our remote Wehave also assessed the security of our monitoring system, could have a systems in line with the 10 steps to cyber significant effect.
Our business strategy for 20152025 includes significant investment to improve the resilience of our network, particularly by improving our ability to move water around our network.
We also have security measures to protect our assets and contingency plans to maintain supplies in the event of failure.
Financial risks 9 Changing demographics Group wide We provide significant funding We regularly revalue our schemes and monitor and uctuations in the forour schemes.
We may be our investment performance.
investment market calledupon to provide more We will continue to monitor the performance of may affect our ability to moneyto reduce deficits in our our pensions investments and to work closely fund pensions promises pensions schemes.
with our third party advisors to ensure that the sustainably.
The Strategic Report, as set out from the inside front cover through to page 41, has been approved by the board.
By order of the board Bronagh Kennedy General Counsel and Company Secretary 28 May 2014 41
