Principal risks and uncertainties Risk management framework Shires risk management strategy As a highly regulated biopharmaceutical company with a keen patient focus, Shire has implemented policies and procedures is to identify, assess and mitigate intended to reduce risk and to ensure appropriate and lawful any signi cant risks that it faces.
conduct, including with respect to product development, manufacturing, marketing and distribution operations within Despite this, no risk management the increasing number of countries in which the Company operates.
Success in these areas is of benefi t to shareholders strategy can provide absolute and other stakeholders alike.
Shires risk management strategy is to identify, assess and mitigate any signifi cant assurance against loss.
Despite this, it should be noted that no riskmanagement strategy can provide absolute assurance against loss.
Board of Directors: The Board is responsible for determining the Groups risk tolerance and for ensuring the maintenance Risk management framework of a sound system of internal control and risk management.
Infulfi lling this responsibility, the Board sets Shires corporate Board of Directors risk culture: ensuring its dissemination throughout the Determines risk tolerance and ensures the maintenance organisation.
This is achieved through interaction with key of sound internal control and risk management systems.
stakeholders which, in turn, enables the Board to monitor theGroups risks as well as its risk management and internal Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee control systems: contributing to its annual review of their Monitors and reviews risk management and internal effectiveness.
Stakeholders to the risk framework, which is control systems.
overseen by the Board and designed to manage and mitigate Executive Committee the Groups risks, include: Oversees the implementation and operation of the risk Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee: The Committee management and internal control infrastructure.
supports the Board by, on a biannual basis, reviewing and Risk Council reporting on the principal risks faced by the Company.
These Oversees risk management at an operational level.
risks are assessed on their likelihood of materialisation and potential impact and include those that would threaten the Global Compliance and Risk Management Companys business model, future performance, solvency Department orliquidity.
Moreover, alongside the Board the Committee Supports the development, implementation and monitors and reviews the risk management and internal maintenance of effective compliance and risk control systems: ensuring oversight through its interaction management systems.
with functional stakeholders, through its review and challenge of key risk and control processes and through its evaluation Chief Compliance and Risk Of cer of key strategy updates from management.
Responsible for the global compliance program and forcoordinating oversight of risk mitigation activity.
Executive Committee: The Committee is responsible for ensuring the implementation of the risk management and Internal Audit internal control infrastructure: overseeing its operation and Provides independent assurance to the Audit, ensuring it remains effective.
Committee members receive Compliance & Risk Committee.
regular updates from functional stakeholders and, along withthe Chief Compliance and Risk Of cer and the Head Business units and corporate functions ofInternal Audit, are responsible for elevating matters to the Implement risk management processes and establish Board and Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee as required.
internal controls within their respective organizations.
In addition, on a biannual basis the Committee validates any signi cant risks put forward by the Risk Council: identifying and putting forward for review by the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee those that have the capacity to materially impact the Groups strategy.
Risk Council: The Risk Council comprises senior members of the Companys business units and corporate functions, including the Head of Internal Audit, and is chaired by the Chief Compliance and Risk Of cer.
The Council is charged with overseeing risk management at an operational level: ensuring that each identi ed risk is allocated an owner within the business who is responsible for related management and mitigation activities.
As part of the biannual risk review process the Council appraises risk schedules produced by individual business units and corporate 32 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information functions: validating and revising assessments made and Risk factors evaluating mitigation practices.
A report is prepared for review Set out below are the key risk factors associated with the by the Executive Committee detailing all risks meeting business that have been identifi ed through the Companys aprescribed threshold along with recommendations on approach to risk management.
Some of these risk factors are theirmitigation.
The Chief Compliance and Risk Of cer then specifi c to the Company and others are more generally presents these matters to the Audit, Compliance & Risk applicable to the pharmaceutical industry or specifi c markets Committee: highlighting those risks of strategic importance in which the Company operates.
The Company believes that tothe Company.
these risk factors apply equally and therefore all should be carefully considered before any investment is made in Shire.
Global Compliance and Risk Management Department: The Department, led by the Chief Compliance and Risk Risk factors related to the Companys business Of cer, is made up of compliance, privacy, corporate security The Companys products may not be and risk management, and Health, Safety & Environment acommercialsuccess sub-teams.
It is responsible for supporting the development, The commercial success of the Companys marketed implementation and maintenance of effective compliance and products and other new products that the Company may risk management systems.
This is achieved through policy launch in the future, will depend on their approval and development, the delivery of training programs and acceptance by physicians, patients and other key , and through ongoing monitoring of makers, as well as the receipt of marketing approvals in compliance and risk-assessed activity, with follow-up different countries, the time taken to obtain such approvals, investigation undertaken where necessary.
Such activity the scope of marketing approvals as refl ected in the product provides for the timely undertaking of mitigation and or labels, approval of reimbursement at commercially remediation actions, as well for the escalation of matters to sustainable prices in those countries where price and the Audit, Compliance & Risk ACR Committee and to the reimbursement is negotiated, and safety, effi cacy, Board as appropriate.
In addition, the Chief Compliance and convenience and cost-effectiveness of the product Risk Of cer provides regular updates to the ACR Committee ascompared to competitive products.
on all matters falling with the Departments remit.
The Companys revenues, fi financial condition or results of Chief Compliance and Risk Of cer: The Chief operations may be adversely affected if any or all of the Compliance and Risk Of cer is responsible for the global following occur: compliance program and for coordinating oversight of risk if the Companys products, or competitive products, mitigation activity through the Enterprise Risk Management aregenericized: process.
In addition to maintaining relationships with assurance functions outside of the Global Compliance and if the prices of the Companys products suffer forced Risk Management Department, the Chief Compliance and reductions or if prices of competitor products are reduced Risk Of cer has direct access to the Board and the Audit, signi cantly: Compliance & Risk ACR Committee: providing an if there are unanticipated adverse events experienced with independent mechanism of escalation, should the need arise.
the Companys products or those of a competitors product The Chief Compliance and Risk Of cer provides twice-yearly not seen in clinical trials that impact physicians willingness updates to the ACR Committee in respect of risk and risk toprescribe the Companys products: mitigation review, as well as ongoing compliance monitoring and investigation.
if issues arise from clinical trials being conducted for postmarketing purposes or for registration in another country Internal Audit: The Internal Audit function provides which raise questions or concerns about a product: independent assurance to the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee with respect to the operation of the internal if the regulatory agencies in one country act in a way that control and risk management systems.
raises concerns for regulatory agencies or for prescribers orpatients in another country: Business units and corporate functions: Business units and corporate functions are responsible for implementing risk if patients, payers or physicians favor other treatments over management processes and establishing internal controls the Companys products: within their respective organizations in accordance with a if the Companys products are subject to more stringent centrally approved framework.
In addition, each produces government regulation than competitor products: aschedule of material risks and associated mitigation plans as part of the Groups biannual review process for submission if patent protection or other forms of exclusivity are lost to the Risk Council.
orcurtailed, or if competitors are able to successfully challenge or circumvent the Companys patents or other forms of exclusivity see Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, Legal and other proceedings to the consolidated financial statements : ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 33 Principal risks and uncertainties continued if launches of the Companys products in new markets are Factors which could cause further or more rapid decline in not successful: ADDERALL XR and INTUNIV product sales include: if the sizes of the patient populations for the Companys generic or authorized generic versions of these products products are less than expected: capture more of Shires branded market share than expected: if there are lawsuits led against Shire, including but not the FDA approves additional ANDAs for generic versions of limited to, product liability claims, consumer law claims, these products which, if launched, further reduce branded andpayer or reimbursement litigation: or market share or impact the amount of Shires authorized generic product sales: if the Company is unable to commercialize its products the production of branded ADDERALL XR is disrupted by successfully, there may be a material adverse effect on dif culties in obtaining a suf cient supply of amphetamine theCompanys revenues, financial condition or results salts including, but not limited to, an inability to obtain ofoperations.
suf cient quota from the DEA: Product sales from ADDERALL XR and INTUNIV are there are changes in reimbursement policies of third-party subject to generic competition.
payers: or During 2012 the FDA clarifi ed the regulatory pathway there are changes to the level of sales deductions for requiredfor approval of generic versions of ADDERALL XR.
branded ADDERALL XR or branded INTUNIV for private Consequently in June 2012 and February 2013, Actavis and orpublic payers.
Teva, respectively, received approval to launch their own generic versions of ADDERALL XR.
Shire currently sells The failure to obtain and maintain reimbursement, or an authorized generic versions of ADDERALL XR to Teva and adequate level of reimbursement, by third-party payers also continues to sell the branded version of ADDERALL XR.
in a timely manner for the Companys products may Actavis makes and markets its own generic versions of affect future revenues, financial condition and results ADDERALL XR.
In 2013, Shire settled a number of patent lawsuits in the The Companys revenues are partly dependent on the level United States against certain companies that had fi led for ofreimbursement provided to the Company by governmental approval of their generic versions of INTUNIV.
Under the reimbursement schemes for its products.
Changes to terms of the settlements, Actavis was granted a license to governmental policy or practices could adversely affect make and market Actavis generic versions of INTUNIV in the theCompanys revenues, fi financial condition and results United States on December 1, 2014.
All other parties with ofoperations.
In addition, the reimbursement of treatments whom Shire has settled will be able to enter the market with byhealth care providers, private health insurers and other their respective ANDA-approved products after Actavis 180 organizations, such as health maintenance organizations day exclusivity period has expired.
andmanaged care organizations is under downward pressure and this, in turn, could adversely impact the prices at which Product sales from INTUNIV have declined as a result of the the Company can sell its products.
Factors affecting the December 2014 launch of Actavis generic versions of Companys ability to obtain and maintain adequate INTUNIV and are expected to decline further following the reimbursement for its products include: anticipated launches of generic versions of INTUNIV by other companies after Actavis 180 day exclusivity period expires.
higher levels of controls on the use of the Companys products and or requirements for additional price concessions mandated or negotiated by managed health care organizations or government authorities: legislative proposals to reform health care and government insurance programs in many of the Companys markets: and price controls, unsuccessful government tenders, or non-reimbursement of new medicines or new indications.
The cost of treatment for some of the Companys products ishigh, particularly those which are used for the treatment ofrare diseases.
The Company may encounter diffi culty inobtaining or maintaining satisfactory pricing and reimbursement for such products.
The failure to obtain and maintain pricing and reimbursement at satisfactory levels for its products may adversely affect the Companys revenues, fi financial condition or results of operations.
34 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Company conducts its own manufacturing The development, approval and manufacturing of the operations for certain of its products and is reliant on Companys products depend on the ability to procure third party contract manufacturers to manufacture other ingredients and packaging materials from approved sources products and to provide goods and services.
Some of the and for the manufacturing process to be conducted at Companys products or ingredients are onlyavailable approved sites.
Changes of manufacturer or changes of from a single approved source for manufacture.
Any source of ingredients or packaging materials must generally disruption to the supply chain for any of the Companys be approved by the regulatory agencies, which will involve products may result in the Company being unable to testing and additional inspections to ensure compliance with continue marketing or developing a product or may result the applicable regulatory agencys regulations and standards.
in the Company being unable to do so on a commercially The need to qualify a new manufacturer or source of viable basis for some period oftime.
ingredients or packaging materials can take a signifi cant Although the Company dual-sources certain key products and amount of time.
Should it become necessary to change or active ingredients, the Company currently relies on asingle amanufacturer or supplier of ingredients or packaging source for production of the fi final drug product for each of materials, or to qualify an additional supplier, the Company ADDERALL XR, CINRYZE, FIRAZYR, FOSRENOL, INTUNIV, may not be able do so quickly, or at all, which could delay LIALDA and PENTASA, the Company currently relies on ordisrupt the manufacturing process.
asingle active ingredient source for each of ELAPRASE, US-based manufacturers must be registered with the DEA FIRAZYR, FOSRENOL, INTUNIV and REPLAGAL and also and similar regulatory authorities in other countries if they relies on limited third party sources to provide the donated handle controlled substances.
Certain of the Companys human plasma necessary for the manufacture of CINRYZE.
products, including ADDERALL XR and VYVANSE, contain Following the completion of the acquisition of NPS Pharma ingredients which are controlled substances subject to inthe fi first quarter of 2015, Shire has acquired GATTEX quotasmanaged by the DEA.
As a result, the Companys REVESTIVE, which currently relies on a single active ingredient procurement and production quotas may not be suffi cient source and NATPARA NATPAR, which currently relies on tomeet commercial demand.
asingle source for both production of the fi final drug product and supply of the active ingredient.
CINRYZE, ELAPRASE, REPLAGAL and VPRIV are manufactured using highly complex biological processes.
The Company may experience supply failures or delays Thecomplexity of the manufacturing results in a number beyond its control if it does not, or if any of its third party ofrisks, including the risk of microbial contamination.
manufacturers do not, supply the Company on time with the Additionally, CINRYZE is derived from human plasma, and required volumes, or supply products that do not meet istherefore subject to the risk of biological contamination regulatory requirements.
Any such supply failures could lead inherent in plasma-derived products.
The sole manufacturer tosignifi cant delays, increase in operating costs, lost product of CINRYZE has received observations on Form 483 and a sales, an interruption of research activities, or the delay of new warning letter from the FDA identifying issues with respect product launches, all of which could have a material adverse tothe manufacturing process for CINRYZE which must be effect on the Companys revenues, fi financial condition or results addressed to the satisfaction of the FDA.
interventions, in relation to these, or any other issues, if theyoccur, may delay or disrupt the manufacture of the The Company has also entered into many agreements with Companys products.
third parties for the provision of goods and services to enable itto manufacture its products.
If these third parties are unable The failure to obtain regulatory approvals promptly or at to manufacture products, or provide these goods and services, alland or regulatory interventions associated with changes to in each case in accordance with its respective contractual manufacturing sites, ingredients or manufacturing processes obligations, the Companys ability to manage its manufacturing could lead to signifi cant delays, an increase in operating processes or to operate its business, including to continue the costs, lost product sales, an interruption of research activities, development or commercialization of its products as planned the delay of new product launches or constraints on or on a commercial basis, may be adversely impacted.
manufacturing output, all of which could have a material The manufacture of the Companys products is subject adverse effect on the Companys revenues, fi financial condition toextensive oversight by various regulatory agencies.
Regulatory approvals or interventions associated with changes to manufacturing sites, ingredients or manufacturing processes could lead to significant delays, an increase in operating costs, lost product sales, an interruption of research activities or the delay ofnew product launches.
Pharmaceutical and device manufacturing sites must be inspected and approved by regulatory agencies such as theFDA, and similar agencies in other countries.
Active ingredients, excipients and packaging materials used in themanufacturing process must be obtained from sources approved by regulatory agencies.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 35 Principal risks and uncertainties continued The Company has a portfolio of products in various The actions of certain customers could affect the stages of research and development.
The successful Companys ability to sell or market products profitably.
development of these products is highly uncertain and Fluctuations in buying or distribution patterns by such requires significant expenditures and time, and there customers can adversely affect the Companys isno guarantee that these products will receive revenues, financial conditions or results of operations regulatory approval.
A considerable portion of the Companys product sales are Products that initially appear promising in research or made to major pharmaceutical wholesale distributors, as well development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages as to large pharmacies, in both the US and Europe.
In 2014, ofdevelopment as: for example, 47% of the Companys product sales were attributable to three customers in the US: McKesson Corp. preclinical or clinical tests may show the product to lack Cardinal Health, Inc and AmerisourceBergen Drug Corp.
In safety or ef cacy: the event of fi financial failure of any of these customers there delays may be caused by slow enrollment in clinical studies: could be a material adverse effect on the Companys regulatory requirements for clinical trial drug supplies: revenues, fi financial condition or results of operations.
The extended length of time to achieve study endpoints: Companys revenues, fi financial condition or results of additional time requirements for data analysis or dossier operations may also be affected by fl uctuations in customer preparation: time required for discussions with regulatory buying or distribution patterns.
These fl uctuations may result agencies, including regulatory agency requests for additional from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler inventory objectives, or preclinical or clinical data: delays at regulatory agencies due other factors.
A signifi cant portion of the Companys revenues to staf ng or resource limitations: analysis of or changes to for certain products for treatment of rare diseases are study design: unexpected safety, ef cacy, or manufacturing concentrated within a small number of customers.
Changes issues: delays may arise from shared control with in the buying patterns of those customers may have an collaborative partners in the planning and execution of the adverse effect on the Companys revenues, fi financial condition product development, scaling of the manufacturing process, or results of operations.
or getting approval for manufacturing: Investigations or enforcement action by regulatory manufacturing issues, pricing or reimbursement issues, or authorities or law enforcement agencies relating to the other factors may render the product economically unviable: Companys activities in the highly regulated markets in which it operates may result in significant legal costs the proprietary rights of others and their competing products and the payment of substantial compensation or fines.
and technologies may prevent the product from being The Company engages in various marketing, promotional developed or commercialized: or andeducational activities pertaining to, as well as the sale of, submission of an application for regulatory approval of any pharmaceutical products and medical devices in a number of ofthe Companys product candidates may be subjected jurisdictions around the world.
The promotion, marketing and tolengthy review and ultimately rejected.
sale of pharmaceutical products and medical devices is highly regulated and the operations of market participants, such as the Company, are closely supervised by regulatory authorities Success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure and law enforcement agencies, including the US Department that late stage clinical trials will be successful.
Clinical results of HHS, the FDA, the US Department of Justice, the SEC are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may andthe DEA.
These authorities and agencies and their delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approvals.
The length of equivalents in countries outside the US have broad authority time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an to investigate market participants for potential violations application for marketing approval for a fi final decision by a oflaws relating to the sale, marketing and promotion of regulatory authority varies signifi cantly and may be diffi cult pharmaceutical products and medical devices, including the topredict.
Moreover, once an application is submitted, False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback Statute and the Foreign additional data may be sought by regulators or an application Corrupt Practices Act, among others, for alleged improper may be rejected.
If the Companys large-scale or late-stage conduct, including corrupt payments to government offi cials, clinical trials for a product are not successful, the Company improper payments to medical professionals, off-label will not recover its substantial investments in that product.
marketing of pharmaceutical products and medical devices, The Company has a range of programs in late stage clinical and the submission of false claims for reimbursement by development.
For example, in Phase 3, SHP606 is being thefederal government.
Healthcare companies may also developed for the treatment of DED and SHP465 is being besubject to enforcement actions or prosecution for such developed for the treatment of ADHD in adults.
Any inquiries or investigations into the In addition, even if the products receive regulatory approval, operations of, or enforcement or other regulatory action they remain subject to ongoing regulatory requirements, against, the Company by such authorities could result in including, for example, obligations to conduct additional signifi cant defense costs, fi fines, penalties and injunctive clinical trials or other non-clinical testing, changes to the oradministrative remedies, distract management to the product label which could impact its marketability and detriment of the business, result in the exclusion of certain prospects for commercial success, new or revised products, or the Company, from government reimbursement requirements for manufacturing, written notifi cations programs or subject the Company to regulatory controls or tophysicians, or product recalls or withdrawals.
government monitoring of its activities in the future.
The 36 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Company is subject to certain ongoing investigations by experience, it could adversely affect the implementation of governmental agencies.
For further information, see Note 19, the Companys strategic objectives and ultimately adversely Commitments and Contingencies, Legal and other impact the Companys revenues, fi financial condition or results proceedings to the consolidated fi financial statements.
Adverse outcomes in legal matters and other disputes, Failure to achieve the Companys strategic objectives including Shires ability to enforce and defend patents with respect to the acquisition of NPS Pharma may and other intellectual property rights required for its adversely affect the Companys financial condition business, could have a material adverse effect on the andresults of operations.
Companys revenues, financial condition or results On February 21, 2015, Shire completed the acquisition of ofoperations.
NPS Pharma for a total cash consideration of approximately During the ordinary course of its business the Company may $5.2 billion.
be involved in claims, disputes and litigation with third parties, The acquisition entails various risks, which, if they materialize, employees, regulatory agencies, governmental authorities may adversely impact Shires revenues, fi financial condition or and other parties.
The range of matters of a legal nature that results of operations.
might arise is extremely broad but could include, without limitation, intellectual property claims and disputes, product These risks include but are not limited to: liability claims and disputes, regulatory litigation, contract failure to achieve the targeted growth and expected bene ts claims and disputes, employment claims and disputes, of the acquisition if sales of NPS Pharma products, including andtax or other governmental agency audits and disputes.
GATTEX REVESTIVE, are lower than anticipated: Any unfavorable outcome in such matters could adversely failure to successfully commercialize NPS Pharmas impact the Companys ability to develop or commercialize compound NATPARA NATPAR in the US or to obtain itsproducts, adversely affect the profi tability of existing regulatory approval in the EU: products, subject the Company to signifi cant defense costs, fi fines, penalties, audit fi findings and injunctive or administrative dif culties in integrating NPS Pharma into Shire may lead to remedies, distract management to the detriment of the the combined company not being able to realize the business, result in the exclusion of certain products, or the expected operating ef ciencies, cost savings, revenue Company, from government reimbursement programs or enhancements, synergies or other bene ts in the timeframe subject the Company to regulatory controls or government anticipated, or at all: monitoring of its activities in the future.
Any such outcomes undiscovered or unanticipated risks and liabilities, including could have a material adverse effect on the Companys legal and compliance related liabilities, may emerge after revenue, fi financial condition or results of operations.
For closing the acquisition or may be higher than anticipated: further information see Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, Legal and other proceedings to the the Company may be unable to retain key NPS Pharma consolidated fi financial statements.
personnel: The Company faces intense competition for highly the Company may not be able to retain the existing qualified personnel from other companies and customers, suppliers and other business partners of NPS organizations.
The Company is undergoing a corporate Pharma or attract new customers: and reorganization and was the subject of an unsuccessful the business of NPS Pharma may be otherwise disrupted acquisition proposal and the consequent uncertainty bythe acquisition, including increased costs and diversion could adversely affect the Companys ability to attract ofmanagement time and resources.
and or retain the highly skilled personnel needed for theCompany to meet its strategic objectives.
Any failure to achieve the Companys strategic objectives with The Company relies on recruiting and retaining highly skilled respect to the NPS Pharma acquisition could result in slower employees to meet its strategic objectives.
The Company growth, higher than expected costs, the recording of asset faces intense competition for highly qualifi ed personnel and impairment charges and other actions which could adversely the supply of people with the requisite skills may be limited, affect the Companys business, fi financial condition and results generally or geographically.
The range of skills required and of operations.
the geographies in which they are required by the Company may also change over time as Shires business evolves.
TheCompanys ongoing One Shire reorganization, which aims to simplify the Companys organizational structure andstreamline operations through two principal locations, Massachusetts and Switzerland, involves changes to, andgeographic relocation of, certain skilled roles.
The unsuccessful proposed acquisition of the Company by AbbVie in 2014 created uncertainty in the employee population which could lead to further loss of certain skilled employees.
If the Company is unable to retain key personnel or attract new personnel with the requisite skills and ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 37 Principal risks and uncertainties continued General risk factors related to the Company and to the The failure of a strategic partner to develop and healthcare industry commercialize products could result in delays in The actions of governments, industry regulators and the development, approval or loss of revenue.
economic environments in which the Company operates The Company enters into strategic partnerships with may adversely affect its ability to develop and profitably othercompanies in areas such as product development, market its products.
In these partnerships, The healthcare industry is heavily regulated.
Changes to laws the Company is sometimes dependent on its partner to or regulations impacting the healthcare industry, in any deliver results.
While these partnerships are governed by country in which the Company conducts its business, may contracts, the Company may not exercise direct control.
adversely impact the Companys revenues, fi financial condition Ifapartner fails to perform or experiences fi financial or results of operations.
For example, changes to the diffi culties, the Company may suffer a delay in the regulations relating to the exclusivity periods available for the development, a delay in the approval or a reduction Companys products may allow for the earlier entry of generic insales, or royalties of a product.
The failure to secure new products or compounds for A slowdown of global economic growth, or economic development either through in-licensing, acquisition instability of countries in which the Company does orinternal research and development efforts, or the business, could have negative consequences for the failure to realize expected benefits from acquisitions Companys business and increase the risk of nonofbusinesses or products, may have an adverse impact payment by the Companys customers.
on the Companys future results.
Growth of the global pharmaceutical market has become The Companys future results will depend, to a signifi cant increasingly tied to global economic growth.
Accordingly extent, upon its ability to develop, in-license or acquire new asubstantial and lasting slowdown of the global economy, products or compounds, or to acquire other businesses.
The ormajor national economies, could negatively affect growth expected benefi ts from acquired products, compounds or inthe markets in which the Company operates.
Such a businesses may not be realized or may require signifi cantly slowdown, or any resultant austerity measures adopted by greater resources and expenditure than originally anticipated.
governments in response to a slowdown, could result in The failure to realize expected benefi ts from acquisitions of national governments making signifi cant cuts to their public businesses or products including those resulting from spending, including national healthcare budgets, or reducing integration into the Company, or the failure to develop, the level of reimbursement they are willing and able to provide in-license or acquire new products or compounds on a to the Company for its products and, as a result, adversely commercially viable basis, could have a material adverse affect the Companys revenues, fi financial condition or results effect on the Companys revenues, fi financial condition or of operations.
A slowdown of a nations economy could also lead to The Company may fail to obtain, maintain, enforce or fi financial diffi culties for some of the Companys signifi cant defend the intellectual property rights required to customers, including national governments, and result in conduct its business.
agreater risk of delayed payments, defaults or non-payments The Companys success depends upon its ability and the of outstanding payment obligations by the Companys ability of its partners and licensors to protect their intellectual customers in that country, which could adversely affect property rights.
Where possible, the Companys strategy is theCompanys revenues, fi financial condition or results toregister intellectual property rights, such as patents and ofoperations.
The Company also relies on various trade secrets, unpatented know-how and technological innovations The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax and contractual arrangements with third parties to maintain laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may itscompetitive position.
The failure to obtain, maintain, adversely affect the Companys financial condition or enforce or defend such intellectual property rights, for any results of operations.
reason, could allow third parties to make competing products The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in or impact the Companys ability to develop, manufacture the jurisdictions in which it operates, and routinely obtains andmarket its own products on a commercially viable advice on matters, including the tax treatment of the break basis, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect fee received in connection with AbbVies terminated offer for onthe Companys revenues, fi financial condition or results Shire in the current accounting period.
Signifi cant judgment is ofoperations.
required in determining the Companys tax liabilities, and the Companys tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities.
The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its accrual for tax contingencies: however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued.
In addition, the Company may be affected by changes in tax laws, including tax rate changes, new tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations in domestic and foreign jurisdictions.
38 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Company intends to enforce its patent rights vigorously The introduction of new products by competitors may and believes that its commercial partners, licensors and third impact future revenues.
party manufacturers intend to enforce vigorously those patent The pharmaceutical, biotechnology and device industries are rights they have licensed to the Company.
However, the highly competitive and are characterized by substantial Companys patent rights, and patent rights that the Company investment in continuous product development and has licensed, may not provide valid patent protection technological change.
The Company faces signifi cant suffi ciently broad to prevent any third party from developing, competition from large pharmaceutical and biotechnology using or commercializing products that are similar or companies, many of whom have substantially greater functionally equivalent to the Companys products or resources than the Company.
In addition, many of the technologies.
These patent rights may be challenged, Companys competitors have more products and have revoked, invalidated, infringed or circumvented by third operated longer in the fi elds in which the Company parties.
Laws relating to such rights may in future also be competes.
A number of companies are pursuing the changed or withdrawn.
development of technologies which compete with the Companys existing products or research programs.
These Additionally, the Companys products, or the technologies or competitors include specialized pharmaceutical fi rms and processes used to formulate or manufacture those products large pharmaceutical companies acting either independently may now, or in the future, infringe the patent rights of third or together with other pharmaceutical companies.
It is also possible that third parties will obtain patent Furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and or other proprietary rights that might be necessary or useful other public and private organizations conducting research for the development, manufacture or sale of the Companys may seek patent protection and may establish collaborative products.
The Company may need to obtain licenses for arrangements for competitive products or programs.
As a intellectual property rights from others and may not be able result of this competition the Companys products could toobtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, berendered obsolete or uneconomic or lose market share ifatall.
following the development of new products, new methods oftreatment, or technological advances in manufacturing The Company also relies on trade secrets and other unorproduction by competitors which could adversely affect patented proprietary information, which it generally seeks to theCompanys revenues, fi financial condition, and results protect by confi dentiality and nondisclosure agreements with ofoperations.
its employees, consultants, advisors and partners.
These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of If a marketed product fails to work effectively or causes confi dential information and may not provide the Company adverse side effects, this could result in damage to the with an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized Companys reputation, the withdrawal of the product disclosure.
In addition, if the Companys employees, scientifi c and legal action against the Company.
consultants or partners develop inventions or processes that Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable publicity from may be applicable to the Companys products under complaints concerning any of the Companys products, or development, such inventions and processes will not those of its competitors, could have an adverse effect on the necessarily become the Companys property, but may Companys ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals remainthe property of those persons or their employers.
or successfully market its products.
The testing, The Company has fi led applications to register various manufacturing, marketing and sales of pharmaceutical trademarks for use in connection with its products in various products and medical devices entails a risk of product liability countries and also, with respect to certain products, relies on claims, product recalls, litigation and associated adverse the trademarks of third parties.
These trademarks may not publicity.
The cost of defending against such claims is afford adequate protection or the Company or the third expensive even when the claims are not merited.
A successful parties may not have the fi financial resources to enforce their product liability claim against the Company could require rights under these trademarks which may enable others to theCompany to pay a substantial monetary award.
If, in use the trademarks and dilute their value.
theabsence of adequate insurance coverage, the Company does not have suffi cient fi financial resources to satisfy a liability In the regular course of business, the Company is party to resulting from such a claim or to fund the legal defense of litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property such a claim, it could become insolvent.
For details of current intellectual property litigation, see insurance coverage is expensive, diffi cult to obtain and Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, Legal and other maynot be available in the future on acceptable terms.
proceedings to the consolidated fi financial statements.
Although the Company carries product liability insurance when available, this coverage may not be adequate.
In addition, itcannot be certain that insurance coverage for present or future products will be available.
Moreover, an adverse judgment in a product liability suit, even if insured oreventually overturned on appeal, could generate substantial negative publicity about the Companys productsand business and inhibit or prevent commercialization of other products.
