Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Our decentralised business model empowers the boards and management of our businesses to identify, evaluate and manage the risks they face on a timely basis.
46 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Each business is responsible for its own procedures and controls are put in place risk management assessment which is to mitigate risks and all employees are reported to the groups Director of provided with appropriate information, Financial Control annually.
Further details decentralised business model empowers of our risk mitigation activities can be the boards and management of our found in our Corporate Responsibility businesses to identify, evaluate and Report at www.
manage the risks they face on a timely The board reviews annually the material basis.
Key risks and internal control financial and non-financial risks facing procedures are reviewed at group level our businesses and, on a rolling cycle by the board.
basis, reviews the effectiveness of We require all businesses to implement the risk management process and the appropriate levels of risk management resources that our individual businesses to ensure compliance with all relevant devote to them.
The principal risks legislation, our group health, safety and currently identified by our businesses environment policies, our overriding and reviewed by the board are detailed business principles and group policies on the following pages.
relating to them, taking into account business needs and local circumstances.
Each business is responsible for regularly assessing its health, safety and environmental risks with managers, operators, contracting companies and specialist staff working together to identify hazards.
Appropriate operational Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties PEOPLE Issue Risk Mitigation Product safety Reputational damage Food safety is put before economic considerations.
caused by food hygiene or Our businesses employ quality control specialists and operate strict policies to ensure product safety incidents.
consistently high standards are maintained in our operations and in the sourcing and Non-compliance with handling of raw materials.
Food safety systems are regularly reviewed for efficacy and legal compliance.
Public concerns over We participate in independent food health and safety audits.
Quality and food safety materials used in packaging audits are undertaken at our manufacturing sites.
Documented and tested product recall procedures are embedded in all our businesses and are regularly reviewed.
47 We proactively monitor the regulatory and legislative environment as well as emerging scientific research.
Health and Health concerns over fat, Recipes are regularly reviewed and reformulation is conducted to improve the nutrition salt and calorie content nutritional value of products, with a focus on reducing fat, salt and calorie content of foods.
Responding correctly Our UK Grocery group has signed the UK governments Public Health Responsibility to the spectrum of food Deal and associated pledges to reduce salt, remove trans fats and promote healthy poverty and malnutrition eating and lifestyle options.
All of our grocery products are labelled with nutritional information.
Inappropriate advertising Our UK Grocery portfolio contains only a small number of products specifically intended to children.
These products are marketed responsibly, following accepted codes of practice and within the parameters of a clear, operational business policy.
We are looking further to continue programmes related to health and nutrition, and to develop partnerships to help educate people about health and nutrition.
Potential for fatal accidents Group Health and Safety Policy and practices are embedded with a strong ethos of Workplace health and and serious injuries to workplace safety across the group.
We maintain a programme of audits to verify safety employees, contractors implementation and support continuous improvement.
Accountable senior executives and specialists are appointed.
Loss of healthy workforce We provide health and safety training and continue to share guidance and best practice and supply chain due to with our businesses.
diseases such as HIV AIDS, We have extended the internal and external auditing of health, safety and management TB and malaria in high-risk reporting.
We continue to invest in health and safety management.
Management Failure to plan for succession Each business has a succession plan which is reviewed with group management twice succession to key roles could lead to a a year, and with the board annually.
lack of management Development of our senior managers is co-ordinated by the Group HR Director and the continuity and suboptimal Head of Executive Development.
operational or financial A small number of executive search companies have been briefed to introduce us to performance.
talented executives from other companies who could add value to the group.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties PEOPLE Issue Risk Mitigation Damage to brands Maintain programme of supplier audits where appropriate.
Extensive audit programme Suppliers and supply chain caused by supply chain for labour standards of suppliers.
reliability weakness, e. g. poor We have introduced a Supplier Code of Conduct which is being implemented across conditions for workers.
all our businesses, tailored to their requirements.
Problems with supply We continue to work, in partnership with suppliers and NGOs, to improve working reliability caused by conditions, e. g. via training.
natural disasters and Continued focus on worker safety and safe working conditions.
We have built up an other incidents.
intensive programme of ethical audits in Primarks supply chain.
Understanding the Primark has maintained its classification as a leader, by the Ethical Trade Initiative, 48 sustainability and and we are mapping second tier suppliers subcontractors.
responsible business The Grocery division conducts independent reviews of the environmental and ethical practices of our suppliers.
risks in their supply chain to increase understanding.
External communication and transparency on the management of our supply chain in Primark and Grocery has been enhanced.
Business continuity and disaster recovery plans are regularly reviewed.
Ethical business Unacceptable business All businesses are signed up to the groups Business Principles and Anti-Bribery and practices practices which contravene Corruption Policy.
A programme of training and compliance has been implemented for allemployees.
Reputational damage Appointment of anti-bribery and corruption specialists.
through the irresponsible Businesses work co-operatively to ensure visibility of reputational risk within supply business practices of chains and draw upon best practice management expertise across the group including individuals.
Penalties imposed through bribery, corruption or unfair competition.
ENVIRONMENT Issue Risk Mitigation Environment Long-term increase in Compliance with the groups Environment Policy and annual reporting of management energy prices.
including climate Physical threats to Best available techniques are employed to reduce energy consumption statutory change operations from climate requirement for all sites subject to the EUs Pollution Prevention and Control regime.
Agricultural raw materials are sourced from a wide range of geographical locations Climate change impact and suppliers.
altering growth rates of raw We have a continued focus on reducing our environmental impact and implementing materials we use.
changes to our operations to maximise opportunities such as recycling more waste Increasing cost to operations and using more renewable sources of fuel.
to adapt to climate change We have implemented infrastructural protections against weather-related risks and mitigate impact.
Negative impact on the Greenhouse gas emissions are measured and reported annually and are subject environment and the to assurance by KPMG LLP.
communities which Substantial investment is made to improve environmental risk management, with depend on land used by a focus on energy efficiency when investing in new capital projects.
Water use and Securing access to sources Water-intensive sites in areas of water stress identified, and efforts focused on water availability of water and maintaining efficiencies in these areas.
Investing heavily in the quality of our water usage data to enable improved Ensuring good practices measurement and management of water use and water quality.
in sharing and managing Investment in irrigation systems.
water supplies with local Look to build long-term partnerships to address water issues at a local level.
Finalise the standardised approach to water measurement across the group so that Operating in water we can target investment and build an effective water stewardship.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties FINANCIAL AND REGULATORY Issue Risk Mitigation Competition rules Penalties for failing to comply with the 1998 Clear policy direction and close support from specialist in-house Competition Act, the 2003 Enterprise Act, legal department.
relevant EU law and all relevant competition Compulsory awareness training.
Financial, currency Loss sustained as a result of failure of internal Adherence to the groups financial control framework and and commodity risks controls or fraud, and exposure to foreign anti-fraud policy.
currencies, interest rates, counterparty credit Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of risk, liquidity risk, and changes in market prices board-approved policies and guidelines.
especially for energy and commodities.
Sufficient funding is maintained by way of external loans and 49 committed bank facilities, which are renewed or extended on a timely basis, having regard to the groups projected funding needs.
Financial transactions are dealt through financial institutions with a credit rating of A or better.
Details of the groups accounting and risk management policies with respect to financial instruments and associated quantitative and qualitative disclosures are set out in note 24 on pages 118 to 127.
Failure to comply with local tax law resulting in The group has a financial control framework and a board adopted Tax compliance underpayment of tax and exposure to related tax policy requiring all businesses to comply fully with all relevant interest and penalties.
Provision is made for known issues based on managements interpretation of country-specific tax law and the likely outcome.
Any interest and penalties on tax issues are provided for in the tax charge.
IT security breach Data loss or theft.
Group IT Security policies and procedures are rolled out across the businesses.
Employee awareness campaigns are undertaken to highlight key activities to minimise IT security risks.
Technical security controls are in place over key ITplatforms.
Head of IT Security is tasked with identifying security risks and working with the businesses to implement mitigating controls.
Internal audit reviews of compliance with policies and procedures are undertaken.
The loss of one of our key sites could present Our businesses have in place business continuity plans to Loss of a major site significant operational difficulties.
manage the impact of such an event and group insurance programmes to mitigate the financial consequences.
Regulatory and Failure to recognise political or cultural We remain vigilant to future changes and the risk presented by political differences in the many countries in which we operating in emerging markets.
operate could directly impact the success of We engage with governments and NGOs to ensure the views our operations.
of our stakeholders are represented and we try to anticipate, Proposals to end sugar quotas in 2017. and contribute to, important changes in publicpolicy.
Our financial control requirements are consistently applied wherever we operate.
Major capital Risk of overspending initial cost estimates, All major projects are managed by dedicated teams who work projects and overrunning construction timelines and failure in close liaison with business management.
acquisitions to meet design specifications.
Project plans are reviewed and approved by group management and, for larger projects, by the board.
Updates on progress are provided throughout the project.
Charles Sinclair George Weston John Bason Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014
