29 ong term shareholder value is partnerships or farm-outs and by maintaining, dependent on the success of at a minimum, standard industry best practice the Groups activities, which are insurance.
The Board of Directors does not directed towards the search, believe that it is practical or prudent to obtain evaluation and development of third-party insurance to cover all adverse oil and gas resources.
Exploration circumstances it may encounter as a result of for, and development of, its oil and gas activities.
However, the Board L hydrocarbons is speculative and believes that SOCOs comprehensive property, involves a significant degree control of well, casualty, liability and other policy of risk involving multiple factors.
Critical to cover conforms to industry best practice.
As ensuring the ongoing success of the Company such, it provides substantial protection against in applying its three core strategic objectives of typical industry operational risks.
The Board recognising opportunity, capturing potential and believes it has struck an appropriate balance realising value is the identification, assessment between exposure and coverage.
and mitigation of the various risk factors.
EMPOWERMENT RISK Consequently, SOCO has a formal process in place to identify and mitigate risks applicable to Risk: The Groups international portfolio an upstream oil and gas business.
The Directors comprises oil and gas ventures in widespread, have ultimate responsibility for risk management often remote locations with government and with the Audit and Risk Committee providing industry partners.
Conduct of operations detailed oversight.
The Board has designated the requires the delegation of a degree of decision Deputy Chief Executive Officer as the executive making to partners, contractors and locally responsible for the Companys risk management based personnel.
He is supported in this task by the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operating Officer and Mitigation: As operator in a project, SOCO the Group Exploration Manager.
can directly influence operations and decision making.
Where SOCO is a co-venturer it There is an ongoing process to identify, monitor seeks to maximise its influence through active and mitigate risk throughout the year with any participation with management, including direct new risks or changes to existing risks considered secondments and application of internal control at each Audit and Risk Committee meeting.
best practice under a procedural framework.
Annually, the Audit and Risk Committee undertakes a rigorous and detailed risk RESERVES RISK assessment wherein the Groups risk profile, including the mitigation measures in place to Risk: As discussed in Note 4 to the financial reduce risk to acceptable levels, is considered.
statements, the Company uses standard This risk assessment is then presented to the recognised evaluation techniques to estimate Directors for full Board approval.
its proven and probable oil and gas reserves.
However, such techniques have inherent Risk management and the principal risks and uncertainties in their application.
As the uncertainties facing the Group are discussed in Company has projects with booked reserves in Note 4 to the Financial Statements.
The Groups the early stages of production, development or risk management policies and procedures are non-conventional fracture basement reservoirs, further discussed in the Corporate Governance upward or downward revisions to reserve Report on page 57 and in the Audit and Risk estimates will be made when new and relevant Committee Report on pages 60 to 62 where information becomes available.
Such revisions the significant issues related to the 2014 may impact the Groups financial position and Financial Statements are also reported.
Below results, in particular, in relation to DD&A costs is a summary of the key risks affecting SOCO and impairment.
Reserve estimation may also and how we mitigate those risks to enable the be sensitive to oil price fluctuations which are Company to achieve its strategic objectives.
OPERATIONAL RISK Mitigation: Reserve estimates are reviewed at least twice a year and are regularly reviewed by Risk: There are inherent risks in conducting external consultants.
Future development costs exploration, drilling, and construction are estimated taking into account the level of operations in the upstream industry.
The development required to produce the reserves level of risk is potentially impacted by harsh by reference to operators, where applicable, geographical conditions and associated and internal engineers.
Risk: Portfolio management through Mitigation: SOCO seeks to mitigate its exploration, appraisal or acquisition may fail to operational risks through the application of yield reserves in commercial quantities sufficient industry best practice procedures throughout its to replace production.
Mitigation may also be achieved by transferring risk, for example, by entering into RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Assessment and feedback Analysis, monitoring and feedback STRATEGIC REPORT 30 RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT CONTINUED BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CHIEF CHIEF FINANCIAL OPERATING OFFICER OFFICER OPERATIONS AND FINANCE LOCAL MANAGERS HEADQUARTERS OUR RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS Identification and mitigation: Reporting and consultation Reporting and consultation 31 Mitigation: The Group continues to evaluate Risk: Eastern DRC, where the Company has an projects in existing and potentially new areas of interest in Block V, has a history of conflict.
The interest and will add exploration licences when risk of human rights violations by conflicting the appropriate opportunities arise.
parties is heightened in areas of conflict, which may expose SOCO to the risk of accusation of HEALTH, SAFETY, ENVIRONMENT complicity or collusion with alleged perpetrators AND SOCIAL RISKS or expose Company employees or associates to direct abuse.
Risk: The Group operates in an industry sector with inherent high risks associated with HSES.
Mitigation: As discussed in the CSR Report Additionally, it operates in regions where on page 38, SOCO has a policy of upholding there is a greater risk of economic or social human rights in all areas in which we operate.
instability and where local attitudes to risk differ Consequently, SOCO has developed processes compared with nations with more established to closely engage with the local communities or developed economies.
Accordingly, the with which we work and procedures for Group may be exposed to specific risks in addressing concerns.
SOCO examines the risk relation to social including human rights and that it may be associated, either directly or environmental factors as well as health and indirectly, with a party accused of violations.
Where such an exposure, actual or perceived, exists actions are taken to protect the Company Mitigation: SOCO aims to mitigate such risks and its personnel from an inappropriate by actively engaging with local communities association and reports any relevant findings to and governments, using specialist consultants the most appropriate authority.
and by maintaining appropriate HSES policies and procedures.
Further details of how SOCO Risk: The Company may be accused of addresses these risks can be found in the CSR exploiting poor working conditions and Report on pages 34 to 45. reinforcing discriminatory beliefs.
During 2014, SOCO further developed its Mitigation: This is directly contrary to SOCOs HSES Management Systems, which provides a policy of implementing international labour framework for managing HSES issues, to bring standards and equal human rights.
See the CSR its policies into line with the World Bank IFC Report on pages 34 to 45 for further information.
Performance Standards on Environment and Social Sustainability published in 2012.
This BUSINESS CONDUCT is discussed further in the CSR section of the AND BRIBERY RISK Strategic Report on pages 4 to 45.
Risk: SOCO operates both in an industry sector POLITICAL AND REGIONAL RISK and in certain countries where the promotion of transparent procurement and investment Risk: Many of the Groups projects are in policies is perceived as having a low priority and developing countries or countries with where customary practice may fall short of the emerging free market systems where the standards expected by the UK Bribery Act.
regulatory environment may not be as mature as in more developed countries.
There may be Mitigation: The Group seeks to mitigate a high level of risk in relation to compliance with these risks by ensuring that it has appropriate and interpretation of emerging hydrocarbon procedures including vendor due diligence law, taxation and other regulations.
in place to eliminate bribery and that all employees, agents and other associated Mitigation: SOCO seeks to minimise such risks persons are made fully aware of the Groups by using in-country professional advisors and by policies and procedures with regard to ethical engaging directly with the relevant authorities behaviour, business conduct and transparency.
Annual training and compliance certifications by all associated persons refreshes and reinforces Risk: Some of the Groups interests are SOCOs Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
in regions identified as potentially more susceptible to business interruptions due Running in parallel with the Groups general to the consequences of possible unrest.
risk management process, the Audit and Risk Committee has established a detailed bribery Mitigation: The Group assesses the risks of risk assessment and mitigation reporting operating in these areas before beginning procedure.
Bribery risks are monitored operations and has deemed these risks throughout the year along with implementation commercially acceptable.
SOCO does not of procedures to mitigate any new risks currently carry political risk insurance or identified.
The Company has arrangements associated business interruption insurance for whistleblowing, whereby staff may raise coverage to mitigate such risks.
However, it concerns regarding improprieties in confidence, periodically assesses the cost and benefit of which would be addressed with appropriate both and future circumstances may lead the follow-up action.
To facilitate such reporting the Group to acquire such insurance cover.
Company maintains an Ethics Hotline Service | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT 32 RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT CONTINUED using an independent, confidential telephone The Board may give consideration in certain service that can be used by staff members and circumstances to the appropriateness of entering other stakeholders to report a suspected breach into fixed price, long term marketing contracts.
of SOCOs Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
Although oil prices may fluctuate widely, it is the Groups policy not to hedge crude oil sales unless STAKEHOLDER hedging is required to mitigate financial risks AND REPUTATIONAL RISK associated with debt financing of its assets or to meet its commitments.
Accordingly, no price Risk: The Group operates in locations where hedging mechanisms were in place during the social and environmental matters may be highly year.
Over time, during periods when the Group sensitive both on the ground and as perceived sees an opportunity to lock in attractive oil prices, globally.
This can potentially lead to a reputational it may engage in limited price hedging.
risk which may influence various Group stakeholders.
Actions of international bodies FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK may harm the objectives of the Company and its regional partners.
Risk: Generally, it is the Companys policy to conduct and manage its business in US dollars.
Mitigation: SOCO works closely with all of Cash balances in Group subsidiaries are primarily its stakeholders including local communities, held in US dollars, but smaller amounts may be governments and non-governmental held in GB pounds or local currencies to meet organisations to ensure that, during operations, immediate operating or administrative expenses, any disturbance is minimised and that on or to comply with local currency regulations.
completion of the Groups activities the local From time to time the Company may take short population and environment will be left in, term hedging positions to protect the value of any at least, as good a state as when SOCO first cash balances it holds in non-US dollar currencies.
See the CSR Report on pages 34 to 45 for further information.
Mitigation: The Group seeks to minimise the impact that debt financing has on its balance Risk: Following the announcement of the sheet by negotiating borrowings in matching Companys distribution policy, the nature of its currencies.
The impact of a 10% movement in investors has become more income focused.
foreign exchange rates on the Groups net assets Shareholder relations may be impacted as at 31 December 2014 would not have been negatively by a reduction in distributions, material 2013 not material and would not have reduced expectations of the fundamental been material with respect to the Groups profit value of the Company and its share price.
Mitigation: The Company provides opportunities LIQUIDITY AND CREDIT RISK for direct interfaces with shareholders and analysts at least three times a year and maintains a website Risk: The Group carried significant cash balances to disseminate information widely and in a timely throughout the year thereby decreasing its fashion.
In addition, the Chairman and Senior exposure to liquidity risk and increasing its Independent Director have participated in a exposure to credit risk.
Mitigation: To mitigate these risks and to protect COMMODITY PRICE RISK the Groups financial position cash balances are generally invested in short term, non-equity Risk: Exposure to fluctuations in crude oil prices instruments or liquidity funds, not exceeding three may lead to reduced cash flows, impairment of months forward.
On occasion the Company may assets or locked in losses in long term contracts.
benefit from higher returns by investing surplus The recent rapid decline in the oil price has cash into liquid investments not exceeding six significantly impacted the industry as a whole, months.
Investments are generally confined to including SOCO.
The Group does not currently money market or fixed term deposits in major maintain any fixed price, long term marketing financial institutions.
Production is sold on spot or near term contracts, with prices fixed at the time of a Risk: The Groups maximum exposure to credit transfer of custody or on the basis of an average risk as at 31 December 2014 was $274.5 million market price.
The Groups non-current financial asset that is subject to credit risk Mitigation: SOCO has responded to the current comprises a financial asset arising in respect of the price environment by undertaking a number Groups disposal of its Mongolia interest see Note of initiatives including identifying capital and 17 to the financial statements and a receivable operating expenditure savings both in its Vietnam in respect of two accumulating abandonment and Africa regions, taking stringent measures funds in Vietnam.
The Groups and Companys to reduce general and administration costs, other financial assets comprise investments, trade especially in Africa and associated with new receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
venture activities, and an in depth review of its portfolio of assets and carrying values.
33 Mitigation: The Group seeks to minimise CONTRACTUAL RISK credit risk by only maintaining balances with creditworthy third parties including Risk: The Group enters into various contractual major multinational oil companies subject to arrangements in the ordinary course of its contractual terms in respect of trade receivables.
Such contracts may rely on provisional The credit risk on liquid funds is limited as the information that is subject to further negotiation Board only selects institutions with high credit at a later date.
This may give rise to uncertainty ratings assigned by international credit rating regarding such information.
agencies and endeavours to spread cash balances and liquid investments to multiple Mitigation: In considering any financial impact institutions.
The level of deposits held by on the Groups financial statements, income, different institutions is regularly reviewed.
expenses, assets and liabilities are recognised in accordance with applicable IFRSs and IASs.
The Groups cash requirements and balances are projected for the Group as a whole and for CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT each country in which operations and capital expenditures are conducted.
In addition, the Risk: The Group manages its capital to ensure Company plans sustainable annual distributions that entities in the Group will be able to to shareholders with returns targeting 50% continue as going concerns while maximising of the Companys annual free cash flow.
The the return to stakeholders through the Group meets these requirements through optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
an appropriate mix of available funds, equity instruments and, when required, debt financing.
Mitigation: The capital structure of the Group The Groups ability to pursue its operational consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity objectives is discussed in the Financial Review attributable to equity holders of the parent, on pages 24 to 28.
The Group seeks to minimise comprising issued capital, reserves and retained the impact that any debt financings have on earnings as disclosed in Notes 24, 25 and 27 to its balance sheet by negotiating borrowings in the Financial Statements and in the Statement matching currencies when required.
The Group of Changes in Equity.
The Company may further mitigates liquidity risk by entering into consider raising further debt or equity finance arrangements with industry partners thereby at the appropriate time.
sharing costs and risks, and by maintaining an insurance programme to minimise exposure to insurable losses.
INTEREST RATE VOLATILITY RISK Risk: The Groups exposure to this risk is currently considered to be low as it is debt free.
The Group earns interest on its cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments at floating and fixed rates.
The fair value of the Groups non-current financial asset see Note 17 to the financial statements is also dependent on the discount rate used.
Mitigation: Management assesses the Groups sensitivity to changes in interest rates.
If interest rates had been 0.5% higher or lower and all other variables held constant, the impact on the Groups profit for the year ended, and its net assets at 31 December 2014 would not have been material 2013 not material.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
