Additional Information Additional Information Risk In the Strategy section on pages 10 to 31, Risk management embedded in Key responsibilities we provide an overview of the principal risks business processes Internal Audit Services IA we face and our efforts to manage them.
We strive to ensure that sound risk IA is an independent assurance and In this section we describe in further detail management is embedded in our strategy, advisory function that reports, and is our key risk management and assurance planning, budgeting and performance accountable, to the Audit Committee.
IAs mechanisms and the principal risks and management processes.
The Board has budget, resources and audit programme uncertainties we consider material to defined the Groups risk appetite expressing are approved by the Audit Committee our business, as they may significantly the acceptable levels of risk for the Group annually and the findings from its audit work affect our financial condition, results of using three key dimensions.
These are: i are reported to, and discussed at, each operations and or reputation.
Specific earnings and cash flow: ii return on Audit Committee meeting.
A core part risks and uncertainties are also discussed investment: and iii ethics.
This definition of the audit work carried out by IA includes in the Strategic Report from page 2, provides a clear statement by the Board of assessing how we are managing risk and where relevant.
its position on risk, which enables the reviewing the effectiveness of selected Group, in both quantitative and qualitative aspects of our risk control framework, Managing risk terms, to judge the level of risk it is prepared including the effectiveness of other As a global, innovation-driven to take so as to achieve its overall objectives.
assurance and compliance functions biopharmaceutical business, we face a within the business.
diverse range of risks and uncertainties Annually, the Group develops a long-term that may adversely affect our business.
Our business plan to support the delivery of its Global Compliance approach to risk management is designed strategy, which the Board reviews to ensure Our Global Compliance function seeks to to encourage clear decision making as to that it conforms to its risk appetite.
Our risk drive and embed a culture of ethics and which risks we take and how these risks are management approach is aligned to our integrity within our organisation.
managed, based on an understanding of strategy and business planning processes.
the potential strategic, commercial, financial, Financial risks and opportunities identified Our key compliance priorities include compliance, legal and reputational through the business planning process are implications of these risks.
cross-checked and integrated into the focusing our efforts on important overall risk management reporting.
Line compliance risk areas We work continuously to ensure that we managers are accountable for identifying communicating clear policies to have effective risk management processes and managing risks and for delivering employees in place to support the delivery of our business objectives in accordance with improving compliance behaviours through strategic priorities, the material needs of our the Groups risk appetite.
effective training and support stakeholders and our values.
We monitor ensuring employees can raise concerns our business activities and external and Within each SET function, leadership and that those concerns will be properly internal environments for new, emerging teams discuss the risks the business addressed and changing risks to ensure that these faces.
Annually, these risks are mapped to ensuring fair and objective investigations are managed appropriately.
AstraZenecas risk taxonomy providing a of possible policy breaches Group-wide assessment that is shared with monitoring compliance with policies The Board believes that the processes and the Board, Audit Committee and SET.
providing key stakeholders with accountabilities that exist and are described Quarterly each SET function identifies any assurance and effective reporting of below, provide it with adequate information changes to these risks, its mitigation plans material issues.
on the principal risks and uncertainties we and new and emerging risks.
Further information about these risks updates are assimilated into a Group Risk and uncertainties is set out in this section.
Report for the Board, Audit Committee and SET.
Supporting tools are in place to assist risk leaders and managers in this process and we continue to work on developing our risk management standards and guidelines.
We develop business continuity plans to address situations where specific risks have the potential to severely impact our business.
These plans include training and crisis simulation activities for business managers.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 203 Additional Information Risk continued These priorities are aligned to our strategy Oversight and monitoring Financial Control and Compliance and reflect our commitment to provide The SET is responsible for overseeing and Group: reports on Sarbanes-Oxley Act oversight at all levels, including risk monitoring the effectiveness of the risk compliance and the financial control management relating to external parties management processes implemented framework and anti-bribery anti-corruption.
The Global Compliance Management: the Group-level risk Global Compliance work closely together and Finance functions, together with IA, summary from the annual business and separately provide assurance reporting support the SET by advising on policy and planning process and reports on the to the Audit Committee.
Through the standard setting, monitoring and auditing, performance management and Group Compliance Council, Global communication and training, as well as monitoring processes, key risks and Compliance and IA work with various reporting on the adequacy of line opportunities analysis from the business specialist compliance functions management processes as they apply plan, quarterly Group level risk reports throughout our organisation to to risk management.
and ad hoc comprehensive reviews co-ordinate compliance activities.
Our compliance organisation is comprised When a potential compliance breach of the Global Compliance function and For more information on the Audit is identified, an internal investigation is various specialist compliance functions.
Committee, please see the Audit Committee undertaken by appropriate staff from More information about Global Compliance Report from page 96. our Global Compliance, HR and or and the Code of Conduct can be found in Legal teams.
When appropriate, external the Corporate Governance Report from Principal risks and uncertainties advisers are engaged to conduct and or page 86.
Operating in the pharmaceutical sector advise on investigations.
Should an carries various inherent risks and investigation conclude that a significant Management reporting and assurance uncertainties that may affect our business.
breach has occurred, management, in Quarterly risk reports are provided to the In the remainder of this section we describe consultation with our Legal function, will SET and the Board.
Among other things, the principal risks and uncertainties that we consider whether the Group needs to these reports summarise our current consider material to our business in that disclose and or report the findings to a assessment of the principal risks facing the they may have a significant effect on our regulatory or governmental authority.
Group, including environmental, social and financial condition, results of operations and governance risks, senior management or reputation.
More information on IA and our overall risk accountability and our proposed plans to management and control framework can be address these risks, to the extent possible.
These risks are not listed in any particular found in the Corporate Governance Report order of priority.
Other risks, unknown or from page 86.
The Audit Committee comprises five not currently considered material, could Non-Executive Directors.
It reviews and have a similar effect.
We believe that the Management of risk reports to the Board following each Audit forward-looking statements about Day-to-day risk management is delegated Committee meeting on the overall AstraZeneca in this Annual Report, identified from the Board to the CEO and through the framework of risk management and internal by words such as anticipates, believes, SET to line managers.
SET functions are controls, and is responsible for promptly expects and intends, and that include, accountable for establishing an appropriate informing the Board of any significant among other things, the statements made line management-led process and for concerns about the conduct, results or in Outlook in the Chairmans Statement and providing the resources for supporting outcomes of internal audits and other Future prospects in the Financial Review effective risk management.
The Audit Committee from page 5 and from page 81 respectively, receives regular reports from our external are based on reasonable assumptions.
Line and project managers have primary auditor and the following business functions However, forward-looking statements responsibility, within the context of their involve inherent risks and uncertainties such functional area, for identifying and managing IA: independent assurance reports on the as those summarised below.
They relate to risk as well as for implementing appropriate Groups risk management and control events that may occur in the future, that may controls and procedures to monitor framework be influenced by factors beyond our control effectiveness.
Global Compliance: reports on key and that may have actual outcomes compliance risks, compliance incidents materially different from our expectations.
and investigations, including contact made by employees via AZethics via our helplines 204 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Additional Information Product pipeline risks Impact Failure to meet development targets The development of any pharmaceutical product candidate is a complex, A succession of negative drug project results and a failure to reduce risky and lengthy process involving significant financial, R&D and other development timelines effectively, or produce new products that achieve resources, which may fail at any stage of the process due to various the expected commercial success, could frustrate the achievement of factors.
These include failure to obtain the required regulatory or marketing development targets, adversely affect the reputation of our R&D approvals for the product candidate or its manufacturing facilities: capabilities, and is likely to materially adversely affect our business and unfavourable clinical efficacy data: safety concerns: failure of R&D to results of operations.
See also Failure to achieve strategic priorities or to develop new product candidates: failure to demonstrate adequate meet targets or expectations on page 217. cost-effective benefits to regulatory authorities and or payers: and the emergence of competing products.
Because our business model and strategy rely on the success of relatively few compounds, the failure of any in-line production may have a significant negative effect on our business or results of operations.
Production and release schedules for biologics may be more significantly impacted by regulatory processes than other products.
This is due to more complex and stringent regulation on the manufacturing of biologics and their supply chain.
Difficulties obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for new products We are subject to strict controls on the commercialisation processes for Delays in regulatory reviews and approvals impact patient and market our pharmaceutical products, including their development, manufacture, access.
In addition, post-approval requirements result in increased distribution and marketing.
Safety, efficacy and quality must be established costs and may impact the labelling and approval status of currently before a drug can be marketed for a given indication.
The criteria for marketed products.
establishing safety, efficacy and quality may vary by country or region and the submission of an application to regulatory authorities may or may not lead to the grant of marketing approval.
Regulators can refuse to grant approval or may require additional data before approval is given, even though the medicine may already be launched in other countries.
Approved products are also subject to regulations, and a failure to comply can potentially result in losing regulatory approval to market our products.
Regulations may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials after a drugs approval, which can result in increased costs, labelling challenges or loss of regulatory approval.
Factors, including advances in science and technology, evolving regulatory science, and different approaches to benefit risk tolerance by regulatory authorities, the general public, and other third party public interest groups influence the initial approvability of new drugs.
Existing marketed products are also subject to these same forces, and new data and meta-analyses have the potential to drive changes in the approval status or labelling.
Recent years have seen an increase in post-marketing regulatory requirements and commitments, and an increased call for third party access to regulatory and clinical trial data packages for independent analysis and interpretation.
Politically motivated and unpredictable policy making by governments and regulators can adversely influence regulatory decision making, often leading to severe delays in regulatory approval.
The predictability of the outcome and timing of review processes remains challenging due to evolving regulatory science, competing regulatory priorities, unpredictable policy making and downward pressure on regulatory authority resources.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 205 Additional Information Risk continued Product pipeline risks continued Impact Failure to obtain and enforce effective IP protection Our ability to obtain and enforce patents and other IP rights in relation to our Limitations on the availability of patent protection or the use of compulsory products is an important element of our ability to protect our investment in licensing in certain countries in which we operate could have a material R&D and create long-term value for the business.
Some countries in which adverse effect on the pricing and sales of our products and, consequently, we operate are still developing their IP laws or may even be limiting the could materially adversely affect our revenues from those products.
More applicability of these laws to pharmaceutical inventions.
Adverse political information about protecting our IP is contained in the Intellectual Property perspectives on the desirability of strong IP protection for pharmaceuticals section from page 68.
Information about the risk of patent litigation and the in certain emerging and even developed markets may limit our ability to early loss of IP rights is contained in the Expiry or loss of, or limitations to, obtain effective IP protection for our products.
As a result, certain countries IP rights risk on page 208. may seek to limit or deny effective IP protection for pharmaceuticals.
Delay to new product launches Our continued success depends on the development and successful Significant delays to anticipated launch dates of new products could launch of innovative new drugs.
The anticipated launch dates of major new have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and or results of products significantly affect our business, including investment in large operations.
For example, for the launch of products that are seasonal in clinical studies, the manufacture of pre-launch product stocks, investment nature, delays in regulatory approvals or manufacturing difficulties may in marketing materials pre-launch, sales force training and the timing of delay launch to the next season which, in turn, may significantly reduce anticipated future revenue streams from new product sales.
Launch dates the return on costs incurred in preparing for the launch for that season.
are primarily driven by our development programmes and the demands In addition, a delayed launch may lead to increased costs if, for example, of the regulatory authorities in the approvals process, as well as pricing marketing and sales efforts need to be rescheduled or performed for negotiations.
Delays to anticipated launch dates may result from longer than expected.
various factors, including adverse findings in pre-clinical or clinical studies, regulatory demands, price negotiation, competitor activity and technology transfer.
Acquisitions and strategic alliances, including licensing and collaborations, may be unsuccessful We seek licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations to expand If we fail to complete these types of collaborative projects in a timely our product portfolio and geographical presence as part of our manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, this may limit our ability to business strategy.
access a greater portfolio of products, IP technology and shared expertise.
Such licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations are key, Additionally, disputes or difficulties in our relationship with our collaborators enabling us to grow and strengthen the business.
The success of such or partners may arise, often due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of arrangements is largely dependent on the technology and other IP rights interest between parties, which may erode or eliminate the benefits of we acquire, and the resources, efforts and skills of our partners.
under many of our licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations, The incurrence of significant debt or liabilities due to the integration of an we make milestone payments well in advance of the commercialisation acquired business could cause deterioration in our credit rating and result of the products, with no assurance that we will recoup these payments.
in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.
Furthermore, we experience strong competition from other pharmaceutical Further, if liabilities are uncovered in an acquired business, an acquired companies in respect of licensing arrangements, strategic collaborations, business fails to perform in line with expectations, or a strategic and acquisition targets, and therefore, we may be unsuccessful in transaction does not deliver the results we intended, then the Group implementing some of our intended projects.
or our shareholders may suffer losses and may not have adequate We may also seek to acquire complementary businesses or enter into remedies against the seller or third parties.
Integration processes may also other strategic transactions.
The integration of an acquired business could result in business disruption, diversion of management resources, the loss involve incurring significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities, as of key employees and other issues, such as a failure to integrate IT and well as having a negative effect on our reported results of operations from other systems.
acquisition-related charges, amortisation of expenses related to intangibles and charges for the implementation of long-term assets.
We may also experience difficulties in integrating geographically separated organisations, systems and facilities, and personnel with different organisational cultures.
206 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Additional Information Commercialisation and business execution risks Impact Challenges to achieving commercial success of new products The successful launch of a new pharmaceutical product involves If a new product does not succeed as anticipated or its rate of sales growth substantial investment in sales and marketing activities, launch stocks and is slower than anticipated, there is a risk that we may be unable to fully other items.
The commercial success of our new medicines is particularly recoup the costs incurred in launching it, which could materially adversely important to replace lost sales following patent expiry.
We may ultimately be affect our business or results of operations.
unable to achieve commercial success for any number of reasons.
These Due to the complexity of the commercialisation process for biologics, the include difficulties in manufacturing sufficient quantities of the product methods of distributing and marketing biologics could materially adversely candidate for development or commercialisation in a timely manner, the impact our revenues from the sales of products, such as Synagis and impact of price control measures imposed by governments and healthcare FluMist Fluenz.
authorities, the outcome of negotiations with third party payers, erosion of IP rights, including infringement by third parties, failure to show a differentiated product profile and changes in prescribing habits.
As a result, we cannot be certain that compounds currently under development will achieve success, and our ability to accurately assess, prior to launch, the eventual efficacy or safety of a new product once in broader clinical use can only be based on data available at that time, which is inherently limited due to relatively short periods of product testing and relatively small clinical study patient samples.
The commercialisation of biologics is often more complex than for small molecule pharmaceutical products, primarily due to differences in the mode of administration, technical aspects of the product, and rapidly changing distribution and reimbursement environments.
Our products are subject to competition by other products approved for the same or similar indication, and the approval of a competitive product that is considered superior with, or equivalent to, one of our products may result in immediate and significant decreases in our sales.
Illegal trade in our products The illegal trade in pharmaceutical products is widely recognised by Public loss of confidence in the integrity of pharmaceutical products industry, non-governmental organisations and governmental authorities to as a result of illegal trade could materially adversely affect our reputation be increasing.
Illegal trade includes counterfeiting, theft and illegal diversion and financial performance.
In addition, undue or misplaced concern about that is, when our products are found in a market where we did not send this issue may cause some patients to stop taking their medicines, with them and where they may not be locally approved.
There is a risk to public consequential risks to their health.
Authorities may take action, financial health when illegally traded products enter the supply chain, as well as or otherwise, if they believe we are liable for breaches in our own associated financial risk.
Regulators and the public expect us to help supply chains.
reduce opportunities for illegal trade in our products through securing the There is also a direct financial loss when counterfeit, stolen and or illegally integrity of our supply chain, surveillance, investigation and supporting legal diverted products replace sales of genuine products or genuine products action against those found to be engaged in illegal trade.
are recalled following discovery of counterfeit, stolen and or illegally diverted products.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 207 Additional Information Risk continued Commercialisation and business execution risks continued Impact Developing our business in Emerging Markets The development of our business in Emerging Markets is a critical factor in The failure to exploit potential opportunities appropriately in Emerging determining our future ability to sustain or increase our global product Markets may materially adversely affect our reputation, business or results revenues.
This poses various challenges including: more volatile economic of operations.
conditions and or political environments: competition from multinational and local companies with existing market presence: the need to identify and to leverage appropriate opportunities for sales and marketing: poor IP protection: inadequate protection against crime including counterfeiting, corruption and fraud : inadequate infrastructure to address disease outbreaks such as the Ebola virus : the need to impose developed market compliance standards: the need to meet a more diverse range of national regulatory, clinical and manufacturing requirements: inadvertent breaches of local and international law: not being able to recruit appropriately skilled and experienced personnel: identification of the most effective sales and marketing channels and route to market: and interventions by national governments or regulators restricting market access and or introducing adverse price controls.
Expiry or loss of, or limitations to, IP rights Pharmaceutical products are only protected from being copied during the Products under patent protection or within the period of Regulatory Data limited period of protection under patent rights and or related IP rights such Protection typically generate significantly higher revenues than those not as Regulatory Data Protection or orphan drug status.
Expiry or loss of protected by such rights.
Our revenues, financial condition and results of these rights typically leads to the immediate launch of generic copies of the operations may be materially adversely affected upon expiry or early loss product in the country where the rights have expired or been lost.
See the of our IP rights due to generic entrants into the market for the applicable Patent Expiries section on page 201, which contains a table of certain product.
Additionally, the loss of patent rights covering major products patent expiry dates for our key marketed products.
of other pharmaceutical companies may materially adversely affect the growth of our still-patented products in the same product class Additionally, the expiry or loss of patents covering other innovator in that market.
companies products may also lead to increased competition for our own, still-patented, products in the same product class due to the availability of generic products in that product class.
Further, there may be increased pricing pressure on our still-patented products due to the lower prices of generic entrants.
208 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Additional Information Commercialisation and business execution risks continued Impact Pressures resulting from generic competition Our products compete not only with other products approved for the If challenges to our patents by generic drug manufacturers succeed and same condition, marketed by research-based pharmaceutical companies, generic products are launched, or generic products are launched at risk but also with generic drugs marketed by drug manufacturers.
These on the expectation that challenges to our IP will be successful, this may competitors may invest more resources into the marketing of their products materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
than we do, depending on the relative priority of these competitor products In 2014, US sales for Crestor and Seroquel XR were $2,918 million 2013: within their companys portfolio.
Generic versions of products are often $2,912 million and $738 million 2013: $743 million, respectively.
sold at lower prices than branded products, as the manufacturer does not Furthermore, if limitations on the availability, scope or enforceability of have to recoup the significant cost of R&D investment and market patent protection are implemented in jurisdictions in which we operate, development.
The majority of our patented products, including Nexium, generic manufacturers in these countries may be increasingly able to Crestor and Seroquel XR, are subject to pricing pressures due to introduce competing products to the market earlier than they would have competition from generic copies of these products and from generic forms been able to, had more robust patent protection or Regulatory Data of other drugs in the same product class for example, generic forms of Protection been available.
Losec Prilosec, Lipitor and Seroquel IR.
As well as facing generic competition upon expiry or loss of IP rights, we also face the risk that generic drug manufacturers seek to market generic versions of our products prior to expiries of our patents and or the Regulatory Exclusivity periods.
For example, we are currently facing challenges in the US from numerous generic drug manufacturers regarding our patents for Nexium and Pulmicort Respules, two of our key products.
Generic manufacturers may also take advantage of the failure of certain countries to properly enforce Regulatory Data Protection and may launch generics during this protected period.
This is a particular risk in some Emerging Markets where appropriate patent protection may be difficult to obtain or enforce.
Effects of patent litigation in respect of IP rights Any of the IP rights protecting our products may be asserted or challenged If we are not successful in maintaining exclusive rights to market one or in IP litigation initiated against or by external parties.
Such IP rights may also more of our major products, particularly in the US where we achieve our be the subject of validity challenges in patent offices.
We expect our most highest revenue, our revenue and margins could be materially adversely valuable products to receive the greatest number of challenges.
If we are ultimately unsuccessful in patent litigation, we may incur our efforts to establish and defend robust patent protection for our liabilities to third parties for damages incurred after enforcing our IP rights.
products, we may not succeed in protecting our patents from such litigation Managing or litigating infringement disputes over so-called freedom to or other challenges.
We may be subject to injunctions against our products or processes and be liable for damages or royalties.
We may We also bear the risk that courts may decide that third parties do not infringe our IP rights.
This may result in AstraZeneca losing exclusivity and need to obtain costly licences.
These risks may be greater in relation to biologics and vaccines, where patent infringement claims may relate to or erosion of revenues.
Details of proceedings involving non-infringement allegations, including so-called Section 505 b 2 cases in the US can be discovery or research tools, and manufacturing methods and or biological materials.
While we seek to manage such risks by, for example, acquiring found in Note 27 to the Financial Statements from page 182. licences, forgoing certain activities or uses, or modifying processes to Where we assert our IP rights but are ultimately unsuccessful, third avoid infringement claims and permit commercialisation of our products, parties may seek damages, alleging, for example, that they have been such steps can entail significant cost and there is no guarantee that they inappropriately restrained from entering the market.
In such cases, we bear will be successful.
the risk that we incur liabilities to those third parties.
We also bear the risk that we may be found to infringe patents owned or licensed exclusively by third parties, including research-based and generic pharmaceutical companies and individuals.
Infringement accusations may implicate, for example, our manufacturing processes, product intermediates or use of research tools.
Details of significant infringement claims against us by third parties enforcing IP rights can be found in Note 27 to the Financial Statements from page 182.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 209 Additional Information Risk continued Commercialisation and business execution risks continued Impact Price controls and reductions Most of our key markets have experienced the implementation of various Due to these pricing pressures, there can be no certainty that we will be cost control or reimbursement mechanisms for pharmaceutical products.
able to charge prices for a product that, in a particular country or in the aggregate, enable us to earn an adequate return on our product For example, in the US, prices are being depressed through restrictive investment.
These pressures, including the increasingly restrictive reimbursement policies and cost control tools such as restricted lists reimbursement policies to which we are subject, as well as potential and formularies, which employ generic first strategies and or require legislation that expands the commercial importation of medicines into the physicians to obtain prior approval for the use of a branded medicine where US, could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
These mechanisms can be used by payers to We expect these pricing pressures will continue, and may increase.
limit the use of branded products and put pressure on manufacturers to reduce net prices.
In addition, payers are shifting a greater proportion of the cost of branded medicines to the patient via out-of-pocket payments at the pharmacy counter.
The patient out-of-pocket spend is generally in the form of a co-payment or, in some cases, a co-insurance, which is designed, principally, to encourage patients to use generic medicines.
In Emerging Markets, governments are increasingly controlling pricing in the self-pay sector.
A summary of the principal aspects of price regulation and how pricing pressures are affecting our business in our most important markets is set out in Pricing pressure in the Marketplace section on page 17 and opposite in the following risk factor.
210 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Additional Information Commercialisation and business execution risks continued Impact Economic, regulatory and political pressures We face continued economic, regulatory and political pressures to limit or While new patients entering the US healthcare system due to the ACA may reduce the cost of our products.
lead to a slight increase in prescription drug utilisation, it is too early to predict what the financial impact from newly covered individuals may be.
In 2010, the US enacted the ACA, a comprehensive health reform law that Overall, we expect that our financial and other costs resulting from the expands insurance coverage, implements delivery system reforms and ACA, many of which we are unable to accurately estimate, will far outweigh places a renewed focus on cost and quality.
In terms of specific provisions any increase in revenues.
impacting our industry, the law mandates higher rebates and discounts on branded drugs for certain Medicare and Medicaid patients as well as an The continued disparities in EU and US pricing systems could lead to industry-wide excise fee.
Implementation of several health system delivery marked price differentials between markets, which, by way of the reforms included in the ACA has commenced and will continue until 2018. implementation of existing or new reference pricing mechanisms, The ACA expands the patient population eligible for Medicaid and provides increases the pricing pressure affecting the industry.
The importation of new insurance coverage for individuals through state and  products from countries where prices are low due to government price controls, or other market dynamics, to countries where operated health insurance exchanges.
In general, patients enrolled in the exchanges are subject to higher cost sharing obligations and may not have prices for those products are higher, is already prevalent and may increase.
Increased transparency of net prices and strengthened collaboration by as robust access to prescription drugs as compared with patients enrolled in Medicare Part D or commercial plans.
There will be ongoing scrutiny of governments may accelerate the development of further cost containment policies such as procurement or the comparison of net prices etc.
the US pharmaceutical industry that could result in further government intervention and financial constraint.
For more information, please see Regulatory requirements and Pricing pressure in the Marketplace section from page 16 and page 17, respectively.
In the EU, efforts by the EC to reduce inconsistencies and improve standards in the disparate national pricing and reimbursement systems met with little immediate success as Member States guard their right to make healthcare budget decisions.
The industry continues to be exposed in Europe to various ad hoc cost-containment measures and reference pricing mechanisms, which impact prices.
There is a trend towards increasing transparency and comparison of prices among EU Member States.
Recent controversy regarding the high price of a drug marketed by one of our competitors for chronic hepatitis C may provoke further EU collaboration and may eventually lead to a change in the overall pricing and reimbursement landscape.
Concurrently, many markets are adopting the use of Health Technology Assessment HTA to provide a rigorous evaluation of the clinical efficacy of a product, at, or post, launch.
HTA evaluations are also increasingly being used to assess the clinical effect, as well as cost-effectiveness, of products in a particular health system.
This comes as payers and policymakers attempt to increase efficiencies in the use and choice of pharmaceutical products.
Further information regarding these pressures is contained in Regulatory requirements and Pricing pressure in the Marketplace section from page 16 and page 17, respectively.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 211 Additional Information Risk continued Commercialisation and business execution risks continued Impact Abbreviated approval processes for biosimilars While no application for a biosimilar has been made in relation to an The extent to which biosimilars would differ from patented biologics on AstraZeneca biologic, various regulatory authorities are implementing or price is unclear.
However, due to their complex nature, it is uncertain considering abbreviated approval processes for biosimilars that would whether biosimilars would have the same impact on patented biologics compete with patented biologics.
that generic products have had on patented small molecule products.
For example, in 2010, the US enacted the Biologics Price Competition and In addition, it is uncertain when any such abbreviated approval processes may be fully realised, particularly for more complex protein molecules Innovation Act within the ACA, which contains general directives for biosimilar applications.
The FDA issued draft guidance in February 2012 on such as MAbs.
Such processes may materially and adversely affect the future commercial prospects for patented biologics, such as the ones that implementing an abbreviated biosimilar approval pathway.
However, significant questions remain, including standards for designation of we produce.
interchangeability and data collection requirements to support extrapolation of indications.
In 2012, the FDA also implemented user fee programmes to support biosimilar product review and policy development.
In Europe, the EMA published final guidelines on similar biologics containing MAbs and in May 2012, the first MAb biosimilar application was submitted with recommendation for approval made by the EMA.
Notably, various jurisdictions have adopted either the EMA guidelines or those set forth by the WHO to enable biosimilars to enter the market after discrete periods of data exclusivity.
Increasing implementation and enforcement of more stringent anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation There is an increasing global focus on the implementation and enforcement We devote significant resources to the considerable challenge of of anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation.
compliance with this legislation, including in emerging and developing markets, at considerable cost.
Investigations from governmental agencies For example, in the UK, the Bribery Act 2010 came into force in 2011.
It has require additional resources.
Despite taking significant measures to prevent extensive extra-territorial application, and imposes organisational liability for breaches of applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws by our any bribe paid by persons or entities associated with an organisation where personnel and associated third parties, breaches may result in the the organisation failed to have adequate preventative procedures in place imposition of significant penalties, such as fines, the requirement to comply at the time of the offence.
In the US, there has been significant enforcement with monitoring or self-reporting obligations, or debarment or exclusion activity in respect of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by the SEC and DOJ from government sales or reimbursement programmes, any of which could against US companies and non-US companies listed in the US.
China and materially adversely affect our reputation, business or results of operations.
other countries are also enforcing their own anti-bribery laws more aggressively and or adopting tougher new measures.
We are the subject of current anti-corruption investigations and there can be no assurance that we will not, from time to time, continue to be subject to informal inquiries and formal investigations from governmental agencies.
In the context of our business, governmental officials interact with us in various roles that are important to our operations, such as in the capacity of a regulator, partner or healthcare payer, reimburser or prescriber, among others.
Details of these matters are included in Note 27 to the Financial Statements from page 182.
212 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Additional Information Commercialisation and business execution risks continued Impact Any expected gains from productivity initiatives are uncertain We continue to implement various productivity initiatives and restructuring If inappropriately managed, the expected value of these initiatives could be programmes with the aim of enhancing the long-term efficiency of the lost through low employee engagement and hence productivity, increased business.
However, anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these absence and attrition levels, and industrial action.
programmes are based on estimates and the actual savings may vary Our failure to successfully implement these planned cost reduction significantly.
In particular, these cost reduction measures are often based measures, either through the successful conclusion of employee relations on current conditions and cannot always take into account any future processes including consultation, engagement, talent management, changes to the pharmaceutical industry or our operations, including new recruitment and retention, or the possibility that these efforts do not business developments or wage or price increases.
generate the level of cost savings we anticipate, could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
Failure to attract and retain key personnel and failure to successfully engage with our employees We rely heavily on recruiting and retaining talented employees with a The inability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, in particular those diverse range of skills and capabilities to meet our strategic objectives.
in key scientific and leadership positions and those in our talent pools, may For example, the success of our science activities depends largely on our weaken our succession plans for critical positions in the medium term, may ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of high-quality researchers materially adversely affect the implementation of our strategic objectives and development specialists.
We face intense competition for well qualified and could ultimately impact our business or results of operations.
individuals, as the supply of people with specific skills and significant Failure to engage effectively with our employees could lead to business leadership potential or in specific geographic regions may be limited.
disruption in our day-to-day operations, reduce levels of productivity and or Our ability to achieve high levels of employee engagement in the workforce, increase levels of voluntary turnover, all of which could ultimately adversely and hence benefit from strong commitment and motivation, is key to the impact our business or results of operations.
successful delivery of our business objectives.
While we are committed to working on improving drivers of engagement, such as increasing our employees understanding of our strategy and our ongoing efforts to reduce organisational complexity, our efforts may be unsuccessful.
Failure of information technology and cybercrime We are dependent on effective IT systems.
These systems support key Any significant disruption to these IT systems, including breaches of data business functions such as our R&D, manufacturing, supply chain and security or cybersecurity, or failure to integrate new and existing IT systems, sales capabilities and are an important means of safeguarding and could harm our reputation and materially adversely affect our financial communicating data, including critical or sensitive information, the condition or results of operations.
confidentiality and integrity of which we rely on.
The size and complexity of While we have invested heavily in the protection of our data and IT, we may our IT systems, and those of our third party vendors including outsource be unable to prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could providers with whom we contract, have significantly increased over the result in disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation, past decade and makes such systems potentially vulnerable to service regulatory penalties, financial losses and or other costs.
interruptions and security breaches from attacks by malicious third parties, Significant changes in the business footprint and the implementation or from intentional or inadvertent actions by our employees or vendors.
of the new IT strategy, including the setting up of captive offshore Global Technology Centres, could lead to temporary loss of capability while the changes are being implemented.
The inability to effectively back-up and restore data could lead to permanent loss of data that could result in non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
We and our vendors could be susceptible to third party attacks on our information security systems.
Such attacks are of ever increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise, including criminal groups, hacktivists and others.
From time to time we experience malicious intrusions and computer viruses.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 213 Additional Information Risk continued Commercialisation and business execution risks continued Impact Failure of outsourcing We have outsourced various business critical operations to third party The failure of outsource providers to deliver timely services, and to the providers.
This includes certain R&D processes, IT systems, HR and required level of quality, and the failure of outsource providers to co-operate finance and accounting services.
with each other, could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.
In addition, such failures could adversely impact our ability to meet business targets, maintain a good reputation within the industry and with stakeholders, and result in non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
A failure to successfully manage and implement the integration of IT infrastructure services provided by our outsource providers could create disruption, which could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
In addition, failure to manage outsourcing or insourcing transition processes may disrupt our business.
For instance, as we transition services that previously were outsourced to our service centre in Chennai India, incumbent outsource providers may cease to continue to provide the same level of resources and quality of service.
Supply chain and delivery risks Impact Manufacturing biologics Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is complex and may Slight variations in any part of the manufacturing process or require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms components may lead to a product that does not meet its stringent and facilities specifically designed and validated for this purpose, with design specifications.
Failure to meet these specifications may lead sophisticated quality assurance and control procedures.
to recalls, spoilage, drug product shortages, regulatory action and or reputational harm.
Final market release of a biologic depends on a number of in-process manufacturing and supply chain parameters to ensure the product conforms with its safety, identity and strength requirements and meets its quality and purity characteristics.
Biologics production facilities, especially for drug substance manufacture, are very specialised and can take years to develop and bring on line as licensed facilities.
Predicting demand for certain classes of biologics, especially prior to launch, can be challenging.
We expect that external capacity for biologics drug substance production will remain constrained for the next several years and, accordingly, may not be readily available for supplementary production in the event that we experience unforeseen need for such capacity.
214 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Additional Information Supply chain and delivery risks continued Impact Difficulties and delays in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products We may experience difficulties and delays in manufacturing our products, Manufacturing, distribution and sales difficulties may result in product such as shortages and significant delays, which may lead to lost sales and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results supply chain disruptions, including those due to natural or man-made of operations.
disasters at one of our facilities or at a critical supplier or vendor delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for our products inability to supply products due to a product quality failure or regulatory agency compliance action such as licence withdrawal, product recall or product seizure other manufacturing or distribution problems, including changes in manufacturing production sites, limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in the types of products produced, or physical limitations or other business interruptions that could impact continuous supply.
Reliance on third party goods and services We increasingly rely on third parties for the timely supply of goods, such as Third party supply failure could lead to significant delays and or difficulties raw materials for example, the API in some of our medicines, equipment, in obtaining goods and services on commercially acceptable terms.
This formulated drugs and packaging, and services, all of which are key to our may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results operations.
Many of these goods are difficult to substitute in a timely of operations.
Loss of access to sufficient sources of key goods and biological materials Unexpected events and or events beyond our control could result in the or services may interrupt or prevent planned research activities and or failure of the supply of goods and services.
For example, suppliers of key increase our costs.
Further information is contained in Working with goods may cease to trade.
In addition, we may experience limited supply of suppliers in Manufacturing and Supply from page 57. biological materials, such as cells, animal products or by-products.
Furthermore, government regulations could result in restricted access to, use or transport of such materials.
Legal, regulatory and compliance risks Impact Adverse outcome of litigation and or governmental investigations We may be subject to various product liability, consumer commercial, Investigations for example, under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or antitrust, environmental, employment or tax litigation or other legal federal or state False Claims Acts described in further detail in Note 27 to proceedings and governmental investigations.
Litigation, particularly in the the Financial Statements from page 182 or legal proceedings, regardless US, is inherently unpredictable and unexpectedly high awards for damages of their outcome, could be costly, divert management attention, or damage can result from an adverse verdict.
In many cases, plaintiffs may claim our reputation and demand for our products.
Unfavourable resolution of compensatory, punitive and statutory damages in extremely high amounts.
current and similar future proceedings against us could subject us to In particular, the marketing, promotional, clinical and pricing practices of criminal liability, fines, penalties or other monetary or non-monetary pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which remedies, require us to make significant provisions in our accounts relating manufacturers interact with purchasers, prescribers and patients, are to legal proceedings and could materially adversely affect our business or subject to extensive regulation, litigation and governmental investigation.
Many companies, including AstraZeneca, have been subject to claims related to these practices asserted by federal and state governmental authorities and private payers and consumers, which have resulted in substantial expense and other significant consequences.
Note 27 to the Financial Statements from page 182 describes the material legal proceedings in which we are currently involved.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 215 Additional Information Risk continued Legal, regulatory and compliance risks continued Impact Substantial product liability claims Pharmaceutical companies have, historically, been subject to large product Substantial product liability claims that result in court decisions against us liability damages claims, settlements and awards for injuries allegedly or in the settlement of proceedings could materially adversely affect our caused by the use of their products.
Adverse publicity relating to the safety financial condition or results of operations, particularly where such of a product or of other competing products may increase the risk of circumstances are not covered by insurance.
For more information, see the product liability claims.
Limited third party insurance coverage risk on page 219.
Failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules and regulations Any failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may result Failure to comply with applicable laws, including ongoing control and in civil and or criminal legal proceedings being filed against us, or in us regulation, could materially adversely affect our business or results of becoming subject to regulatory sanctions.
For example, once a product has been approved for marketing wide-ranging administrative powers to deal with any failure to comply with by the regulatory authorities, it is subject to continuing control and continuing regulatory oversight and this could affect us, whether such regulation, such as the manner of its manufacture, distribution, marketing failure is our own or that of our contractors or external partners.
Details of and safety surveillance.
For example, if regulatory issues concerning product liability claims against us can be found in Note 27 to the Financial compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice or safety monitoring Statements from page 182. regulations for pharmaceutical products often referred to as pharmacovigilance arise, this could lead to loss of product approvals, product recalls and seizures, and interruption of production, which could create product shortages and delays in new product approvals, and negatively impact patient access and our reputation.
Failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules and regulations relating to anti-competitive behaviour Any failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations relating Where a government authority investigates our adherence to competition to anti-competitive behaviour may expose us to regulatory sanctions laws, or we become subject to private party lawsuits for example, the US and or lawsuits from governmental authorities and private, Nexium settlement anti-trust litigation described in more detail in Note 27 to non-governmental entities.
the Financial Statements from page 182, this may result in inspections of our sites or requests for documents and other information.
Competition Certain of our commercial arrangements with generics companies, investigations or legal proceedings could be costly, divert management which have sought to settle patent challenges on terms acceptable attention or damage our reputation.
to both innovator and generics manufacturer, may be subject to challenge by competition authorities.
Unfavourable resolution of such challenges, investigations or legal proceedings against us could require us to change our commercial practice and could subject us to fines and penalties, third party damages actions and other sanctions.
These could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
Environmental and occupational health and safety liabilities We have environmental and or occupational health and safety-related While we carefully manage these liabilities, if a significant compliance issue, liabilities at some currently and formerly owned, leased and third party environmental, occupational health or safety incident or legal requirement sites, the most significant of which are detailed in Note 27 to the Financial for which we are responsible were to arise, this could result in us being Statements from page 182. responsible for compensation, fines and or remediation costs.
In some circumstances, such liability could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
In addition, our financial provisions for any obligations that we may have relating to environmental or occupational health and safety liabilities may be insufficient if the assumptions underlying the provisions, including for example our assumptions regarding the portion of waste at a site for which we are responsible, prove incorrect or if we are held responsible for additional contamination or occupational health and safety-related claims.
216 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Additional Information Legal, regulatory and compliance risks continued Impact Misuse of social media platforms and new technology We increasingly use the internet, social media, mobile applications and Inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could lead to the unauthorised other forms of new technology to communicate internally and externally.
or unintentional public disclosure of sensitive information such as The accessibility and instantaneous nature of interactions with such media personally identifiable information on employees, healthcare professionals may facilitate or exacerbate the risk of data leakages from within or patients, for example, those enrolled in our clinical trials, which may AstraZeneca or false or misleading statements being made about damage our reputation, adversely affect our business or results of AstraZeneca, which may damage our reputation.
As existing social media operations and expose us to legal risks, as well as additional legal platforms expand and evolve, and new social media platforms emerge, it obligations.
Similarly, the involuntary public disclosure of commercially becomes increasingly challenging to identify new points of entry and to put sensitive information, such as trade secrets through external media structures in place to secure and protect information.
channels, or an information loss could adversely affect our business or results of operations.
In addition, negative posts or comments on social media websites about us or, for example, the safety of our products, could harm our reputation.
Economic and financial risks Impact Failure to achieve strategic priorities or to meet targets or expectations We may from time to time communicate our business strategy or our There can be no guarantee that our financial targets or expectations will targets or expectations regarding our future financial or other performance materialise on the expected timeline or at all.
Actual results may deviate for example, the expectations described in Future prospects in the materially and adversely from any such target or expectation, including if Financial Review on page 81, which we communicated to investors at one or more of the assumptions or judgements underlying any such target our strategy update and our investor day in May and November 2014, or expectation proves to be incorrect in whole or in part.
All such statements are of a forward-looking nature and are based on assumptions and judgements we make, all of which are subject to significant inherent risks and uncertainties, including risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of and or that are beyond our control.
Any failure to successfully implement our business strategy may frustrate the achievement of our financial or other targets or expectations and, in turn, materially damage our brand and materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 217 Additional Information Risk continued Economic and financial risks continued Impact Adverse impact of a sustained economic downturn A variety of significant risks may arise from a sustained global economic While we have adopted cash management and treasury policies to downturn.
Additional pressure from governments and other healthcare manage this risk see the Financial risk management policies section on payers on medicine prices and volumes of sales in response to page 81, we cannot be certain that these will be as effective as they are recessionary pressures on budgets may cause a slowdown or a decline in intended to be, in particular in the event of a global liquidity crisis.
In growth in some markets.
In some cases, those governments most severely addition, open positions where we are owed money and investments we impacted by the economic downturn may seek alternative ways to settle have made in financial institutions or money market funds cannot be their debts through, for example, the issuance of government bonds which guaranteed to be recoverable.
Additionally, if we need access to external might trade at a discount to the face value of the debt.
sources of financing to sustain and or grow our business, such as the debt or equity capital financial markets, this may not be available on In addition, our customers may cease to trade, which may result in losses commercially acceptable terms, if at all, in the event of a severe and or from writing off debts, or the sustained economic downturn may sustained economic downturn.
This may, for instance, be the case in the unfavourably affect the spending patterns of the consumers of our event of any default by the Group on its debt obligations, which may products.
materially adversely affect our ability to secure debt funding in the future We are highly dependent on being able to access a sustainable flow of or our financial condition in general.
Further information on debt funding liquid funds due to the high fixed costs of operating our business and the arrangements is contained in the Financial risk management policies long and uncertain development cycles of our products.
In a sustained section on page 81. economic downturn, financial institutions with whom we deal may cease to trade and there can be no guarantee that we will be able to access monies owed to us without a protracted, expensive and uncertain process, if at all.
More than 95% of our cash investments are managed centrally and are invested in collateralised bank deposits or AAA credit rated institutional money market funds.
Money market funds are backed by institutions in the US and the EU, which, in turn, invest in other funds, including sovereign funds.
This means our credit exposure is a mix of US and EU sovereign default risk and financial institution default risk.
Political and socio-economic conditions We operate in over 100 countries around the world, some of which may be Deterioration of, or failure to improve, socio-economic conditions, and subject to political and social instability.
There may be disruption to our situations and or resulting events, depending on their severity, could business if there is instability in a particular geographic region, including as adversely affect our supply and or distribution chain in the affected a result of war, terrorism, riot, unstable governments, civil insurrection or countries and the ability of customers or ultimate payers to purchase our social unrest.
For instance, our operational risks in Ukraine have increased medicines.
This could adversely affect our business or results of due to growing political and economic uncertainty in the region.
Broader economic developments, such as potential international sanctions and global oil price developments, could exacerbate this effect in the Ukrainian and Russian markets.
Fluctuations in exchange rates As a global business, currency fluctuations can significantly affect our Movements in the exchange rates used to translate foreign currencies into results of operations, which are reported in US dollars.
Approximately 40% US dollars may materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of our global 2014 sales were in the US, which is expected to remain our of operations.
Additionally, some of our subsidiaries import and export largest single market for the foreseeable future.
Sales in other countries are goods and services in currencies other than their own functional currency, predominantly in currencies other than the US dollar, including the euro, and so the financial results of such subsidiaries could be affected by Japanese yen, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar.
We have a growing currency fluctuations arising between the transaction dates and the exposure to emerging market currencies, some of which are subject to settlement dates for these transactions.
In addition, there are foreign exchange controls, and these currencies, such as that of Venezuela, may exchange differences arising on the translation of equity investments in be subject to material devaluations against the US dollar.
components of our cost base are located in the UK and Sweden, where an aggregate of approximately 21% of our employees are based.
218 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Additional Information Economic and financial risks continued Impact Limited third party insurance coverage In recent years, the costs associated with product liability litigation If we are found to have a financial liability due to product liability or other have increased the cost of, and narrowed the coverage afforded by, litigation, in respect of which we do not have insurance coverage, or if an pharmaceutical companies product liability insurance.
To contain insurers denial of coverage is ultimately upheld, this could materially insurance costs in recent years, we have continued to adjust our coverage adversely affect our business or results of operations.
profile, accepting a greater degree of uninsured exposure.
The Group has For more information, please see the Substantial product liability claims not held any material product liability insurance since February 2006.
In risk on page 216. addition, where claims are made under insurance policies, insurers may reserve the right to deny coverage on various grounds.
For example, product liability litigation cases relating to Crestor and Nexium in the US are not covered by third party product liability insurance.
See Note 27 to the Financial Statements from page 182 for details.
Taxation The integrated nature of our worldwide operations can produce conflicting The resolution of these disputes can result in a reallocation of profits claims from revenue authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual between jurisdictions and an increase or decrease in related tax costs, and countries.
The majority of the jurisdictions in which we operate have double has the potential to affect our cash flows and EPS.
Claims, regardless of tax treaties with other foreign jurisdictions, which provide a framework their merits or their outcome, are costly, divert management attention and formitigating the incidence of double taxation on our revenues and may adversely affect our reputation.
If any of these double tax treaties should be withdrawn or amended, especially in a territory where a member of the Group is involved in a taxation dispute with a tax authority in relation to cross-border transactions, such withdrawal or amendment could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations, as could a negative outcome of a tax dispute or a failure by the tax authorities to agree through competent authority proceedings.
See the Financial risk management policies section on page 81 for tax risk management policies and Note 27 to the Financial Statements on page 187 for details of current tax disputes.
Pensions Our pension obligations are backed by assets invested across the broad Sustained falls in these asset values will strain pension fund solvency levels, investment market.
Our most significant obligations relate to the UK which may result in requirements for additional cash, restricting cash pension fund.
available for strategic business growth.
Similarly, if the liabilities increase due to a sustained low interest rate environment, this will reduce pension fund solvency ratios.
The likely increase in the IAS 19 accounting deficit generated by any of these factors may cause the credit rating agencies to review our credit rating, with the potential to negatively affect our ability to raise debt.
See Note 20 to the Financial Statements from page 162 for further details of the Groups pension obligations.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 219
