Strategic Report Principal risks The Groups principal financial and operational risks, how they have changed and how they are managed, are shown below: Risk Description and impact Risk change Related strategic pillars How we manage the risk Macroeconomic Approximately 70% of the Groups revenue is dependent on private patients having private Down The Board manages this risk by regularly reviewing market conditions and economic indicators to assess whether conditions medical insurance PMI, paid by their employer or paid by the individual, or being able to actions are required.
As successfully employed in the recent economic downturn, if the private market contracts, the Group can try to In an economic downturn, the number of insured individuals falls with the level of reduce costs and future investment to improve profit and cashflow, and may be able to offer the released capacity employment and individuals have reduced real income to fund insurance or self-pay to the NHS at its lower tariff, reducing the impact on profit.
This would have an adverse effect on the Groups business, the results of its operations and prospects.
Government policy Change in the medium-term public funding of NHS services provision, and or the Up The Group believes that the private sector has become a fundamental partner of the NHS across the UK.
The prioritisation of this funding to particular service lines over time elective healthcare, continued use of private facilities is, in Spires view, the best way to meet the challenges facing the NHS particularly A&E, community care, etc.
could adversely reduce the flow of NHS patients.
as there is limited capacity within the NHS to take back work currently undertaken by the private sector.
Changes in the service level requirements for providers of NHS services, and service level The Groups service levels are confirmed by regular surveys of patients, GPs and consultants, which provide ongoing commitments to members of the public served by the NHS, could adversely impact the feedback to ensure NHS requirements whether as providers or as commitments to its patients are met.
In attractiveness of privately funded treatment.
addition, the Board regularly reviews the competitiveness of its patient offering both NHS and private patients.
A fundamental change in the tariff structure pricing arrangements, associated with the The Board continually monitors government policy, NHS requirements and associated tariff structures to consider provision of services to the NHS, could result in reduced access to patients, reduced tariffs, the need for cost and or investment reduction, whether in the short, medium or long term.
or reduced prices leading to reduced volumes and or margins.
See Spire Hull and East Riding Hospitals case study on pages 46 and 47, which demonstrates a successful partnership with the NHS.
Laws, regulations The Group operates in a highly regulated environment, including complying with the Down Following the IPO, the Group is in the process of implementing a new group-wide risk management framework and loss of requirements of, for example, the CQC, Monitor and the CMA.
and associated policies and procedures, which is tasked with the review, monitoring and, via the executive reputation management team, ensuring that these risks are mitigated as far as possible.
During 2015, this framework will Failure to comply with laws, regulations or regulatory standards may expose the Group to be further strengthened in order to monitor and react to the changing regulatory framework of a listed company patient claims, fines, penalties, damage to reputation, suspension from the treatment of NHS in the healthcare sector.
patients and loss of private patients, such that the Group may not be able to operate one or more of its hospitals, causing a significant reduction in profit.
Emerging legal or regulatory changes are monitored by the Board, its executive management team and the risk Board Committees, as well as consultations with external advisers and industry briefings.
In addition, the Group could fail to anticipate legal or regulatory changes leading to a significant financial or reputational impact.
Clinical care Spire operates in a highly complex medical sector and requires high clinical standards from Level Spire has implemented and continually monitors its clinical standards, policies and procedures.
The introduction staff, consultants and third-party suppliers.
If they fail to meet the standards required, the of the Boards Clinical Governance and Safety Committee will aid the monitoring and control of clinical risks.
Group may be subject to litigation and or media coverage, resulting in reputational damage A number of key performance indicators are used in the assessment of clinical standards and these may be found and, potentially, financial loss.
in the Clinical Review, on pages 38 and 39.
The Groups future growth depends upon its ability to maintain its reputation for high-quality The Group reviews and maintains insurance to mitigate the possibility of a major loss.
Adequacy of cover services by meeting its quality goals.
Poor clinical outcomes, negative media comment or is reviewed annually with the Groups brokers.
patient, GP and or consultant dissatisfaction could reduce the quality ratings, which could lead to a loss of patient referrals.
The Group could receive claims arising from clinical care that could exceed its insurance limits of cover, giving rise to additional expenses being borne by the Group.
52 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Our strategic pillars 1.
To drive efficiency through a clear focus on of existing sites by services, particularly for the and improve productivity our three payor groups growing volume treatment of cancer Risk Description and impact Risk change Related strategic pillars How we manage the risk Macroeconomic Approximately 70% of the Groups revenue is dependent on private patients having private Down The Board manages this risk by regularly reviewing market conditions and economic indicators to assess whether conditions medical insurance PMI, paid by their employer or paid by the individual, or being able to actions are required.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 53 Strategic Report Principal Risks continued Risk Description and impact Risk change Related strategic pillars How we manage the risk Competitor Spire operates in a highly competitive market.
New or existing competitors may enter the Level The Group maintains a watching brief on new and existing competitor activity and retains the ability to react challenge market of one or more of our existing hospitals, or offer new services, reducing the market quickly to changes in patient and market demand.
The Group considers that a partial mitigation of the impact of competitor activity is ensured by providing patients The potential impact would be the loss of market share and reduced profitability with high-quality care and by maintaining good working relationships with GPs and consultants.
Concentration The PMI market is concentrated, with the top four companies Bupa, AXA, Aviva and Down The Group works hard to maintain good relationships and a joint product patient health offering with the PMI of PMI market VitalityHealth formerly PruHealth having a market share of over 87% see page 13. companies, which, it is believed, assists the healthcare sector as a whole in delivering high-quality patient care.
The Board believes continuing to invest in its well-placed portfolio of hospitals should provide a natural fit to the Loss of an existing contractual relationship with any of the key players could significantly local requirements of all the PMI providers.
The Group has entered into contracts to continue the good relationships for the long term see Bupa in the Chief Executive Officers statement on page 8 and to reduce the Groups risk.
Availability of key Due to growing demand for healthcare, and a limited supply of appropriately qualified Up The Board focuses on staff retention, evidenced by very high levels of staff satisfaction and, hence, low staff medical staff nursing staff, the healthcare sector is seeing a rising shortage of skilled nursing staff.
turnover, and its excellent reputation to attract new staff.
Profitable growth, in line with the Groups strategy, requires an expansion of clinical services Overseas recruitment of English-speaking nurses is being used to mitigate the UK shortage of trained nursing staff in hospitals, particularly including more complex surgical procedures and ongoing treatment and to reduce the cost of using agency staff.
of higher-risk patients, which could be impacted by a shortage of key medical staff.
The Group believes consultants are attracted by its advanced facilities, technology and equipment, excellent brand In order to expand our directory of services at hospital level, in line with our strategy, and reputation, the availability of a broad range of treatments, skilled nursing staff and medical support staff, and it is vital to have access to appropriately qualified, self-employed consultants.
the efficiency of administrative support.
The Group undertakes continuous investment in its equipment, facilities and services to retain high-quality consultants and also provides theatre capacity to new consultants.
This is The market may well see salary rates rise as competition for staff increases and, confirmed by high consultant satisfaction levels, see page 24. as a result, the Groups costs would increase and its profits would reduce.
An employee survey is conducted annually to establish employee satisfaction and, where appropriate, changes in working practices are made in response to the survey findings to aid retention.
Investment plans The capital investment programme which includes IT system developments for the Group in Up The Group ensures change and project risks are minimised by the following: and execution 2015 and beyond consists of the largest number of parallel developments undertaken to date.
a detailed financial and operational appraisal process is in place to evaluate the expected returns on capital.
The management of the programme brings risks relating to: During the course of development, the actual costs and estimated returns are regularly monitored: delays in bringing additional facilities, or IT functionality, on line: implementing robust bid procedures, including a thorough review of the contract terms and conditions, technical requirements and programme cost forecasting: cost overruns: and rigorous planning, and programme and project management: change capacity and project management capability.
the selection of contractors and suppliers is based upon track record of delivery and credit worthiness: and Any major cost overrun or substantial delay in delivery could impact upon the expected returns and the Groups planned profit growth and future cashflow.
regular reviews of the programme, and individual projects, by the executive sponsor and the Board.
Liquidity and The Group may have insufficient liquid resources to meet its financial liabilities Down The Group actively monitors and manages its liquid asset position, its financial liabilities falling due and the cover covenant risk as they fall due, or breach financial covenants linked to its borrowings.
Failure to meet its obligations or covenants would have a substantial adverse effect Forward projections show that the Group can meet its liquidity requirements from existing liquid assets and on the Groups reputation and may lead to borrowings becoming repayable earlier maintain its loan covenant obligations, even in adverse scenarios.
In addition, there is a committed, undrawn than contracted for.
revolving credit facility of 100 million available to meet liquidity needs, if required.
In an adverse scenario, capital expenditure could be cut back to reduce the demand on liquidity.
Interest rate risk The Group has liabilities outstanding under floating rate bank loan facilities Down On a regular basis, the Group reviews the cost benefit of entering into derivative financial instruments to hedge and, is therefore, exposed to interest rate risk from fluctuations in market rates.
its exposure to interest rate volatility based on existing variable rates, current and predicted interest yield curves, and the cost of associated medium-term derivative financial instruments.
Cashflows would be adversely impacted due to any increases in interest rates, reducing availability for other purposes.
The impact of changes in market rates of interest would be partially mitigated by increased rates receivable on money market deposits.
54 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Risk Description and impact Risk change Related strategic pillars How we manage the risk Competitor Spire operates in a highly competitive market.
The Strategic Report, from page 1 to page 55, was reviewed, approved by the Board and signed on its behalf on 23 March 2015.
Rob Roger Chief Executive Officer 23 March 2015 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 55
