Y M F A I N T A N G E E D I STRATEGIC REPORT 10 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO THE GROUPS BUSINESS INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The external auditors are invited to attend all meetings of the Audit Committee, save The Board has a responsibility to govern the Group in the interest of the shareholders.
for those parts of any meeting when the Committee reviews the performance of the Comments and suggestions of shareholders are always considered by the Board.
the Board considers that the risk has not been fully mitigated, follow-up meetings With the exception of Heatons, which is the Groups only material associate, the Groups will be arranged to assess the risk and formulate mitigation strategies.
A specialist system of internal control and risk management and its effectiveness is monitored and management team of Directors and senior managers highlight risks as and when reviewed by the Board, the Audit Committee and management, and the Board believes they become apparent.
The team then in turn assist the Board in devising controls to that the Group has maintained throughout the year and up to the date of approval of minimise the Groups exposure.
the annual report and accounts an effective embedded system of internal control and THE GROUPS APPROACH TO RISK has complied with the Turnbull guidance.
The identification and management of risk is a continuous process, and the Groups The systems of internal control and risk management are designed to manage, rather system of internal controls and the business continuity programmes are key elements of than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives.
The Group maintains a system of controls to manage the business and to protect its assets with the development of contingency plans and rapid response to changing RISK POLICIES AND PROCEDURES circumstances and does much to mitigate the risks facing the Group.
The Group Business plans and budgets for each business include financial and strategic targets continues to invest in people, systems and in IT to manage the Groups operations and against which performance is monitored.
Monitoring includes the examination of and its finances effectively and efficiently.
changes to rolling annual and quarterly forecasts, monthly measurement of actual achievement against key performance targets and plans, and weekly reviews of performance.
4 The Group has clear procedures for the approval and control of expenditure.
Strategic investment decisions involving both capital and revenue expenditure are subject to formal detailed appraisal and review according to approval levels set by the Board.
Operating expenditure is controlled within each business with approval levels for such expenditure being determined by the individual businesses.
There is an approved employee whistle-blowing policy within the Group.
The policy 3 1 was established to be utilised by employees who wish to raise any issues or concerns relating to the Groups activities, and all matters are discussed on a confidential basis.
KEY RISKS Control environment The Groups operating procedures include a comprehensive system for reporting 2 information to the Board including: assessment of three years of strategy plans for business development: creation and assessment of legal policies: and review of the Group at each Board meeting, focusing on potential new risks such as 1.
THE RISKS ARE IDENTIFIED key changes in the market and succession planning.
THE RISKS ARE EVALUATED Control procedures 3.
ACTION IS TAKEN TO MANAGE THE RISKS Detailed operational procedures have been developed for each of the Groups operating 4.
THE PRACTICES ARE REVIEWED AND MONITORED TO LIMIT THE RISK businesses that embody key controls.
The implications of changes in law and regulations are taken into account within these procedures.
Financial reporting process The specialist management teams are responsible for the identification, analysis, The Group has in place internal control and risk management systems in relation to evaluation and mitigation of the significant risks applicable to their areas of business.
the Groups financial reporting process and the Groups process for the preparation The teams meet regularly to discuss the identified risks, and how these should be of consolidated accounts.
These include clearly defined lines of accountability and reviewed and monitored.
The Board ensures that the appropriate arrangements are delegation of authority, policies and procedures that cover financial planning and in place under which employees can raise concerns about possible financial or other reporting, preparing consolidated accounts, capital expenditure, project governance impropriety, which are then appropriately investigated.
The Board is assisted by the Audit Committee in fulfilling its overview responsibilities, The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing and monitoring these processes, reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial information to shareholders and which are designed to ensure that the Group complies with relevant regulatory reporting the audit process, satisfying itself that appropriate systems of internal control and risk and filing provisions.
As at the end of the period covered by this Report, the Audit management are in place and are serving to identify and manage risk.
Committee, with the participation of the Chief Executive, evaluated the effectiveness The Group operates a Retail Support Unit which provides strong operational internal of the design and operation of disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure audit services in the Retail division, and there are procedures in place in the Brands that information required to be disclosed in financial reports is recorded, processed, division to monitor and control licensees.
summarised and reported within specified time periods.
R E O V T I A L N U O A M T E SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 11 PRINCIPAL RISKS AFFECTING THE GROUP The Group has identified the following factors in the following table as potential risks to, and uncertainties concerning, the successful operation of its business.
The Group is, however, exposed to a wider range of risks than discussed below but these are the principal risks that have recently been discussed by the Board and Audit Committee and are of primary concern.
AREA RISK MITIGATION Supply Chain The Group operates internationally so is The Group is subject to the risks associated with The Group requires all suppliers to sign up to the Groups Code of Ethics Supply Policy reliant on the successful distribution of international trade and transport as well as those which enables the Group to monitor and benchmark the performance of the supplier.
goods from when they are distributed by relating to exposure to different legal and other It allows the Group to carry out inspections of premises to ensure compliance with the the manufacturer to when they are sold standards.
Particular risks including worker strikes, Groups codes for continuity and quality of supply.
The Policy extends throughout the in the stores.
failure to meet minimum code of conduct standards, duration of the Groups contract with each supplier and allows the Group to conduct and transport delays for products could all cause inspections of supplier premises at random intervals.
The Group is reliant on manufacturers in substantial difficulties.
developing countries as the majority of Many risks relating to the supply chain, reliance on non-UK suppliers, and to the reputation the Groups products are sourced from Disasters in or around the factories of our suppliers of the Groups brands are managed and mitigated by the implementation of these policies.
could bring negative media attention to the Group.
Strong Service Level Agreements and maintaining relationships with all parties involved in the supply chain also mitigate these risks.
Key Suppliers The Group is reliant on good A failure to replace any of its major manufacturers The Group follows policies of forging long-term relationships with suppliers and of utilising relationships with its major or suppliers on commercially reasonable terms could two leading supply chain companies to procure much of the Groups own branded goods.
manufacturers, key brands or brand have an adverse effect on the Groups business, This close relationship brings a better understanding of the suppliers resources enabling suppliers.
operating profit or overall financial condition.
It may the Group to react quickly to changes in the international supply market.
mean that customers shop elsewhere if stores cannot Lengthy contracts are often used by the Group to ensure that key manufacturers are aware supply the required product.
of our commitment to them.
Treasury and Financial Risk The Group operates internationally.
The The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising The Group seeks to mitigate the FX fluctuations by hedging via forward foreign currency majority of foreign contracts relating to from various currency exposures and a strengthening contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.
the sourcing of Group branded goods of the US dollar or a weakening of the pound sterling The Group also holds assets overseas in local currency, and these assets are revalued in are denominated in US dollars and the making goods more expensive.
This currency risk is not hedged.
Euro, thus leaving exposure to foreign Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial exchange risk.
The Group is cash generative and is now targeting its debt levels to mitigate interest rate transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are risk and currently has debt levels of less than 1 x underlying EBITDA.
The Group has net borrowings, which denominated in a currency that is not the entitys are principally at floating interest rates functional currency, as exchange rates move.
This linked to bank base rates or LIBOR.
Credit and Liquidity Risk The Group, primarily the Brands division, The Group could have a credit risk if credit The Groups key suppliers also face credit risk and as such the Group regularly assesses provides credit to some of its customers.
evaluations were not performed on all customers the viability of its suppliers and ensures there are plans to source from alternative requiring credit over a certain amount.
businesses should key suppliers fail.
Funding and liquidity for the Groups operations are provided through bank The Groups objective is to maintain sufficient Rigorous procedures are in place to mitigate this credit risk.
The Group has a credit policy loans, overdrafts and shareholders funding and liquidity for its requirements, but the in place and the exposure to risk is monitored on an on-going basis.
availability of adequate cash resources from bank Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount, facilities and achieving continuity of funding in the and concentration of credit risk is managed.
current financial climate could be a risk to the Group in future years.
Investment of cash surplus, borrowings and derivative investments are made through banks and companies which have credit ratings and investment criteria approved by the The purchase of acquisitions to strengthen and Board.
compliment the Group may be hindered.
The Group mitigates liquidity risk by keeping debt levels low and the current finance facility Relationships with suppliers could break down if we is held with a club of 13 banks, thereby spreading the risk.
are unable to pay them in line with our contractual obligations.
Succession Planning Key individuals within the Group have Natural disaster, illness, injury, or the sudden Our departments work together to develop their understanding of each department and knowledge of the business and are resignation of key individuals could change the of the Group.
Senior Managers work at ground level to help to assess the strengths of essential to drive the business forward.
their employees and to offer development opportunities where appropriate.
This can be of assistance when considering the suitability of internal candidates for vacancies.
Promotion opportunities, a newly developed competency framework, and regular appraisals give employees a voice, encourage a sense of responsibility and support career progression.
Our structured talent management programmes, and specialist masterclasses, encourage internal progression within the Group.
The Group has formed working relationships with head hunters and recruitment agents who are aware of the qualities required in a typical candidate.
STRATEGIC REPORT 12 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO THE GROUPS BUSINESS CONTINUED AREA RISK MITIGATION Market Forces The Sports Retail industry is highly The competition continues to place pressure on the The Group has a discount pricing policy to help reduce the risk of increased competition in competitive and the Group currently Groups pricing strategy, margins and profitability.
competes at national and local levels The Group has a strong property portfolio, and continues to strengthen this by opening and with a wide variety of retailers of closing stores to adapt to market conditions.
varying sizes who may have competitive advantages.
New competitors may enter A number of key brands are owned by the Group, reducing pressure on margins.
Operational The Group is reliant on the Head Office Any disruption to the Head Office, National The Group has a strong business continuity plan that is regularly reviewed to address and National Distribution Centre at Distribution Centre or the fleet of vehicles might operational risks.
The last review and testing of this took place during the most recent Shirebrook operating without disruption, significantly impact the Groups ability to manage financial year.
along with the uninterrupted running of its operations, distribute products to its stores and The Board is confident that as far as it is practical, the risks and uncertainties that face the Groups fleet of vehicles.
the Group are being monitored and managed and that, where required, appropriate action The majority of the Groups revenue is Any long-term interruption of the Groups IT systems is being taken.
would have a significant impact on the Groups The Group constantly monitors the business environment and the nature of the business operation, particularly in the Retail division.
model allows for the Group to act swiftly under extraordinary circumstances.
Terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, government actions or adverse weather affecting the road networks within the UK could result in a significant reduction in consumer confidence, which would in turn have an adverse affect on sales in stores.
Health & Safety Health and Safety is key across all areas Potential injuries, distress and fatalities could We ensure that each Company within the Group is fully trained to the required standards of the Group.
Policies are implemented, result from a failure to establish and maintain safe applicable in each requisite country.
in conjunction with legal standards, to environments.
Lack of competence in Health and Training courses are regularly offered and employees are encouraged to learn essential protect our employees and customers.
Safety reporting could lead to legal claims which are Health and Safety techniques.
The team at Head Office are always on hand to discuss Health and Safety issues, assess incidents and refer reportable matters to RIDOR.
The incidents within the Group are reported to the Board regularly, as are the legal claims that arise from these.
The Board consider ways to reduce the number of claims.
Legal The Groups trade marks, patents, The Group believes that its licensees, suppliers, The Group has an in-house Legal team who have knowledge of a variety of legal areas that designs and other intellectual property agents and distributors are in material compliance apply to the Group.
This in-house expertise is vital in mitigating such issues.
rights are central to the value of the with employment, environmental and other laws.
The Legal team work closely with external consultants to assist with matters outside their Groups brands.
The violation, or allegations of a violation, of such areas of expertise.
laws or regulations, by any of the Groups licensees, suppliers, agents or distributors, could lead to The Groups Legal team actively monitor trade mark applications by other companies, as adverse publicity and a decline in public demand for well as the stock of rival retailers, to ensure that our rights are not infringed and where the Groups products, or require the Group to incur these are infringed, to take appropriate action.
expenditure or make changes to its supply chain and As a testament to the Legal teams hard work and commitment to protecting the Groups other business arrangements to ensure compliance.
trade marks, the trade mark team recently won Sport, Entertainment and Media Team of The Group may need to resort to litigation in the the Year at the World Trademark Review Awards in Dallas.
future to enforce its intellectual property rights and any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources.
Third parties may try to challenge the ownership or counterfeit the Groups intellectual property.
Sales The Groups retail businesses are Prolonged unseasonal weather conditions or Although unable to mitigate environmental conditions, the Group are able to influence the subject to seasonal peaks.
The incidence temporary severe weather during peak trading retail portfolio and therefore constantly monitor development of stores and the Groups aim of and participation in major sporting seasons could have a material adverse effect on the to increase the square footage through viable new retail space.
By monitoring stock levels events will have a particular impact on Groups businesses.
The Group is dependent upon the through sales forecasting the Group can manage the peaks in demand and trading profiles the Sports Retail business.
store portfolio and consumers spending habits.
