Strategic Report Risk management Risk management process The achievement SSEs risk management process is designed to ensure that: risks are taken knowingly and with a full of SSEs strategic understanding of their implications: risks taken are proportionate and in keeping with achievement of SSEs goals: proper consideration is given to where in the goals necessarily business certain risks are taken: risk is managed on both a top down and bottom up basis: and the wider control environment is strong and involves taking risks fully integrated.
The requirement for good risk governance Energy markets are both complex and volatile, and SSE and its responsibility for clear and effective risk management is accepted and endorsed by believes that the process of identifying and controlling risk the Board.
As such, this report includes needs to be flexible, effective and dynamic.
commentaries on risk appetite, principal risks, risk management activities carried out during 2013 14, plans for the development of a formal Enterprise Risk Management ERM framework, Key Risks principal risks and uncertainties facing SSE, risk governance and an update with regard to SSEs wider control environment.
Defined Emerging Embedded Key principal risks risks risks activities Risk appetite SSE continues to have a limited appetite and 20 3 3 8 tolerance for risk, commensurate with its key goal of delivering annual dividend growth for SSE has defined 20 SSE has identified three SSE has identified three SSE undertook investors.
principal risks which are emerging risks which are embedded risks which eight principal risk set out on page 26. summarised on pages are summarised on management activities 24 and 25. pages 22 and 23. in 2013 14 which The three segments which make up the SSE are set out on page 24.
Group have varying risk profiles.
For example, the Networks business which is heavily regulated and is characterised by stable, inflation-linked cashflows is inherently lower risk than the Wholesale or Retail businesses.
Conversely the Wholesale business is heavily exposed to, amongst others, energy market and commodity risk.
SSE will only accept risk in the parts of its business where that risk is well understood, can be appropriately managed and corresponding returns are deemed sufficiently attractive.
Principal and embedded risks SSE has identified 20 principal risks which are set out in the table on page 26.
In addition to these, SSE recognises the following embedded risks: Geopolitical risk.
SSE operates a diverse business model which looks to avoid undue dependence on any single technology, fuel or other resource.
Nevertheless, geopolitical developments could have a material impact on several parts of SSEs business for example, procurement and the supply chain and commodity costs and availability although in practice SSEs ability to control or proactively manage this risk is likely to be limited.
Weather and climate change risk.
SSE continues to believe This information has in turn informed deep dive affects the production and consumption that the most effective way to manage reviews of the principal risks, each of which is of energy, the operation of energy networks reputational risk is to manage its principal sponsored and led by one of SSEs Managing and the balance between SSEs electricity Group risks.
Corporate reputation is a key Directors.
These intensive exercises continue generation and energy supply activities.
issue for a long-term business such as SSE.
to form a central strand in SSEs approach to risk This risk is mitigated through the maintenance management by providing a focus not only on of a diversified generation portfolio and Each business undertakes a six monthly review the 20 principal risks themselves, but also on key through detailed emergency planning.
For to identify and report on key specific risks, and controls and potential emerging threats to SSEs more information about the impact of the the control mechanisms relating to these.
As ability to meet its strategic goals.
weather on SSEs businesses in 2013 14, part of this process, each business unit aligns its see page 9. individual risks with the 20 principal Group risks.
Current risk management process SSE follows a traditional risk cycle to identify and manage the risks to which it is exposed at all levels, as outlined below: 1.
Identify risks Know the key risks and maintain a register of them.
Assess impact Monitor and and likelihood review ofrisks Review and report keep Look to understand and define risk registers refreshed and the key drivers and impacts updated.
of the risks in relation to SSEs risk tolerance.
Record, Evaluate risks prioritise, and controls communicate, Understand the key controls takeaction relied on to manage key risks.
Ensure risks and issues Know and monitor the identified are addressed measures that indicate the and improvements controls are working.
23 Strategic Report Risk management continued Review of risk management Development of an Enterprise Risk Russian Federation, a subsequent referendum activities during the year Management ERM framework in Crimea and annexation of this territory SSE continued to actively review and manage In recognition of the increasingly complex by the Russian Federation, again posed current and emerging risks throughout the environment in which SSE operates, an ERM a question about security of gas supply course of 2013 14.
A summary of issues and function is now being developed to support the in Europe.
actions include: strategic and organisational needs of SSE.
This change is evolutionary in nature, formalising A k ey risk is that of gas payment disputes Ongoing risk reviews by each business unit and building on the current risk management arising between state-controlled companies.
continue to be a key feature of SSEs approach practices that have historically provided SSE Previous disputes over prices, payments and to risk management.
This is based on the with a strong foundation for the identification, debt have led to gas supply interruptions of up principle that business unit experts are best monitoring and management of risks across to 18 days during the winters of 2005 2006, placed to identify and manage the risks that the business.
Intensification of they face on a day-to-day basis.
The Group political tensions could lead to fresh disputes Risk function provides feedback and Once fully established, ERM will provide a and to curtailing of Russian gas supplies to challenge in respect of all business output.
comprehensive framework for risk awareness Ukraine.
This in turn would jeopardise gas The Executive Committee continues to and management, ensuring a consistent imports to the rest of Europe and would put closely monitor SSEs management of the approach throughout SSE.
Core responsibility pressure on European gas prices.
During the course of the year, for the identification and management of key this resulted in updating the Legislative risks will remain at business unit level, with S SE recognises that with an increased Change risk to Political and Legislative overall top down responsibility for the interconnection of gas markets it is exposed Change to better reflect the significance identification and assessment of SSEs principal to the risks associated with global geopolitical of political risk with regard to SSEs ongoing risks managed by the Executive Committee events through its Energy Portfolio business and operations.
with regular updates given to the Board.
However, SSE Each of the principal risks continues to be centralised team will provide synchronisation operates a policy of purchasing a proportion championed by one of SSEs Managing between these processes: ensure alignment of its gas requirements in advance of delivery Directors, ensuring regular review and of SSEs strategy with risk management: in order to manage market price volatility.
recognition of current and or emerging engage with the business units to provide In addition, SSEs upstream production issues, and the adequacy of the related guidance, support and challenge: and produce interests help to ensure cost effective gas control environment.
a consolidated analysis of total SSE risk exposure.
More The energy trilemma of energy affordability, generally, SSEs ownership and operation security of supply and decarbonisation has Specifically, the ERM framework will support of a well-balanced portfolio of thermal, created a unique and complex risk and encourage: wind and hydro generation assets helps environment.
In response, SSE has created to reduce exposure to wider market and dedicated project teams to consider how best risk-informed decision making at all levels geopolitical risks.
these issues can be balanced and managed.
within the organisation: In-depth testing of risk controls has been greater business unit empowerment and Scottish independence.
SSE employs people, carried out in key business areas, including accountability for risk management: serves customers, owns and operates assets Energy Portfolio Management.
the development of more comprehensive risk and has plans to invest in England, Wales Throughout the course of 2013 14, business appetite statements at both business unit and and Scotland, which together have a single continuity planning was reviewed with Group levels: energy market established through the United a variety of specific business continuity better clarity and definition with regard to Kingdom Parliament and regulated by Ofgem.
SSEs overall risk profile: SSEs Insurance department continues to SSEs ability to risk assess new business S SE believes that the interconnection and seek opportunities to place owner controlled opportunities as and when they arise: and integration of the electricity and gas systems policies, taking a risk orientated approach the further development of a comprehensive and markets in Scotland and in England and to obtain fit for purpose cover, building on and fully co-ordinated control environment.
Wales should continue regardless of the strong strategic relationships and leveraging outcome of the referendum on Scotlands buying power.
This approach has brought Emerging risks and uncertainties future this September.
This means it believes about considerable benefits through a In addition to SSEs current list of principal that there should continue to be a single fuller understanding of policy terms and ongoing group risks as set out on page 26, energy market for the island of Great Britain, conditions, in turn ensuring that these meet current key uncertainties include: just as there is a single electricity market for SSEs needs.
The decisions to adapt SSEs portfolio of European gas supply.
Russia is an important generation assets and developments in the source of European gas supply, covering N evertheless, arrangements for the future of light of ongoing environmental requirements, around 30% of European demand UK, the energy market would have to be agreed market conditions and policy change Netherlands, Germany, France, Spain, Italy by the Scottish government and the UK demonstrate that SSE continues to manage and Belgium.
Ukraine represents one of the government in the event of Scotland actively the risks associated with generation major transit routes with approximately 50% becoming independent.
In addition, other development, construction and operation of Russian gas imported via Ukraine in 2013. issues that would have to be resolved and with the objective of maintaining a diverse, The UK interconnection with continental which could affect SSEs business, include the reliable, efficient and flexible portfolio of Europe via BBL and Interconnector UK gas currency that an independent Scotland would assets capable of operating successfully pipelines means that developments in the use, the process for determining Scotlands in the changing energy market.
European gas market have a significant position with regard to the European Union, impact on gas prices in the UK.
A change and arrangements for recovery of capital of government in Ukraine, opposed by the investments currently socialised across GB, 24 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 1.
3. such as renewable energy and the Markets Authority CMA concluded that there has committed to separate these two areas for transmission network.
are a number of factors which call into question legal and reporting purposes.
This will not only its competitiveness.
The factors included increase the transparency of SSEs overall I f Scotland votes to become an independent declining consumer confidence in the industry, business, but will also enable it to demonstrate country, the process of negotiation with whether vertical integration is in the best the clear benefits of vertical integration to the UK government and the European interests of the consumer, increases in retail the customer.
Union on these and other matters is likely profits, and the potential for customers who to be complex and will take some time.
show an unwillingness to switch provider to pay Risk Governance and the This means that the risk of legislative and more.
Given this conclusion, Ofgem have called wider control environment regulatory change, which SSE has previously for a fuller market investigation by the CMA, to During the course of 2013 14, significant acknowledged will remain one of its principal once and for all clear the air and allow the CMA steps were taken to strengthen SSEs control risks, is heightened until the Scottish to ensure that there are no further barriers to environment.
This has included a refocusing referendum and will continue to be so effective competition.
on and strengthening of the Business Assurance for some time if there is a Yes vote.
activities in key business units.
Additionally, a SSE believes that the energy market in Great structure to ensure formal and fully independent S SE has already put in place arrangements Britain is competitive, has brought significant compliance coverage across the Group has to ensure that it takes account of the benefits for customers, and that much has been been put in place, with a Director of Compliance increased uncertainty in its decision-making done in recent years to make it more transparent appointed and reporting to SSEs Managing and has a clear view of the issues that would and easier to understand, ranging from greater Director, Corporate and Business Services.
arise should there be a Yes vote and is in a liquidity in the wholesale electricity market good position to engage constructively with to simplification of tariffs in the retail markets.
Changes have also been made in respect of the Scottish and UK governments in that In addition, there has been significant Internal Audit, including the introduction of event.
Its approach is to ensure that it investment in Wholesale and Retail businesses integrated oneand three-year audit plans, continues to meet the needs of its networks in Great Britain.
adding greater flexibility to the audit process to and energy supply customers in particular, support the changing needs of SSEs business.
while safeguarding the interests of investors.
Nevertheless, many of the key features of the energy market have become contentious and Plans to consider reporting on the awareness UK political and regulatory environment.
been subject to significant change designed of management with regard to key risks, issues The nature of SSEs core business in to achieve a mixture of objectives.
SSE has and controls in their business areas in addition producing, delivering and supplying energy demonstrated consistently its appetite for reform to reporting on the current effectiveness of leads to significant exposure to political that is in the interests of customers and the controls are well advanced and are expected and regulatory risk.
There were a number competitive market and believes that if a market to be introduced in the course of 2014 15. of developments in 2013 14 which underlined reference is made it should provide a platform this exposure.
for achieving greater political and regulatory Key to the overall effectiveness of SSEs control stability for the competitive GB energy market, framework is good communication and A s the primary cost of energy has risen, for the benefit of customers.
In line with that, co-ordination of activities between the functions the issue of affordability for customers has SSE hopes that such a market reference does that form the three lines of defence.
To ensure been fully supported by and in some areas not focus solely on the household energy that this is achieved, regular cross-functional actively led by SSE through its advocacy market, but that its work covers small businesses meetings are held to ensure that coverage of replacement of green taxes, which take and industrial and commercial customers and of keys risks is comprehensive across the no account of ability to pay, with funds levied that it looks at all parts of the energy supply organisation and to co-ordinate operational from general taxation.
This was further chain that are not economically regulated.
demonstrated by SSEs announcement in March 2014 that it is to freeze electricity It is, however, recognised that a market In April 2013, Ofgem imposed a fine of 10.5m and gas prices for all of its GB household reference is likely to be lengthy and will require on SSE for failings relating to its energy sales customers until at least January 2016.
This significant resource within the Company, activities.
As reported last year the Board was made possible through a combination supported by external advice and analysis where believed appropriate action had been taken of a robust business model, operational appropriate.
As such, SSE has created a formal to address these failings.
A dedicated team efficiency, work to secure customers energy project structure - led by the Regulation was set up to fully review and implement supplies in wholesale markets and SSEs department but drawing on the knowledge improvements to ensure full, ongoing success in helping to secure planned changes and experience of employees from across the compliance across the Retail business.
This to the green taxes of the Warm Home organisation, to manage the expected workload project, which was sponsored and led by senior Discount and Energy Company Obligations and ensure SSE is a constructive contributor to management and supported by employees from ECO.
In addition to these measures, a project the market reference process.
key relevant functions across the organisation, team will look at what else can be done to was successfully completed and subsequently ensure that customers can afford to meet Recognising the need to maintain and build formally closed in April 2014. their energy needs.
stakeholder trust in the industry, SSE is also committed to the transparent operation Key areas of focus for the project included: In addition to affordability, another key of its businesses.
The State of the Market area of political and regulatory focus is Assessment published by Ofgem in March 2014 values and behaviour: competition in the GB energy market and in noted the benefits of vertical integration of processes and IT: particular the performance of the so-called electricity generation and supply while also management controls: and big six energy providers of which SSE is one.
commenting that it had not been able to assess assurance activities.
Having completed their joint assessment of the the net impact on customers of vertical market in late March 2014, Ofgem, the Office integration overall.
In the meantime, in order to This was a significant piece of work that has of Fair Trading OFT and the Competition and further improve transparency in this area, SSE delivered material improvements in the way 25 Strategic Report Risk management continued Table of current top 20 principal risks Principal risk definition Unsafe working practices, equipment and inadequate training may lead to accidents or incidents involving Safety management employees, contractors, members of the public or plant and equipment.
An adverse change to the current regulatory framework in all parts of SSE could have a significant affect on its Regulatory change business.
Risks to SSE from unfavourable political and legislative developments at EU level and in the jurisdictions in which Political and legislative change it operates.
Failure to identify and effectively manage the physical and financial exposures that result from SSEs operational Energy portfolio management involvement in electricity generation, gas storage, gas production, physical coal procurement, wholesale energy trading and retail supply.
Loss or extended disruption to key Group infrastructure caused by failure loss of containment at key plant.
Asset and plant management Loss or extended disruption to key Group network infrastructure.
Networks management Cyber and information security Unauthorised access or disclosure of data either within the SSE Group or between SSE and external environments and markets: disruption to business operations as a result of a malicious attack.
Delivery of major projects and critical business as usual programmes is impacted through failure to establish, Supply chain contract and maintain adequate supply chains and strategic alliances.
Failure to identify and effectively manage treasury and tax exposures and to meet the organisations funding Treasury and tax management requirements and obligations.
Economic, social, energy market and policy conditions which make it difficult for households and businesses to pay Energy affordability the cost of electricity and gas.
Liabilities increase due to market conditions or demographic changes and investments under perform.
Pension liabilities Inability tardiness in identifying step changes in the industry sectors and reacting appropriately.
Sector developments Failure to deliver quality projects on time and on budget.
Major capital projects management Failure to deliver required upgrades to customer systems in relation to smart metering and the Energy Supply Transformation projects business requirements.
management Any significant or multiple compliance failures could result in adverse effect on SSE, including the possibility of a Compliance management financial penalty.
Inadequate response to a major emergency contingency event.
Crisis management Not having cover for the Board and Executive Committee and their direct reports.
Succession planning Inability to establish and maintain a competent workforce.
Failure to forward plan and identify a capabilities matrix Resource and internal to match growth plans.
Portfolio of assets buildings, transport and IT not maintained and enhanced to support infrastructure business plans.
Unwarranted belief in SSEs own abilities, failure to keep listening, inadequate regard for the companys long-term Corporate arrogance or hubris reputation and insufficient challenge to conventional wisdom.
Failure to assess effectively individual JV proposals, manage effectively individual JV assets or understand cumulative Joint ventures impact on SSE of its JVs results in reputational damage or destruction in value.
3. that energy sales are supported by effective committee is to support the companys risk compliance arrangements.
Ongoing scrutiny management responsibilities in specific areas and review will be carried out to ensure that by reviewing the market, credit, operational these improvements are enduring, and that and liquidity risks and issues arising from SSEs further enhancements are made when and Wholesale, Retail and Treasury operations.
In addition to the Risk and Trading Committee The Boards review of internal control SSE has a number of specialist committees SSEs Board has responsibility for agreeing, that provide further oversight and direction to setting and communicating SSEs overall internal support risk management activities throughout control structure and risk management activities.
The structure of these As such it: committees can be seen in the chart on page 59. approves policies, procedures and frameworks for the maintenance of a sound The Group Risk and Audit function is responsible and effective system of internal control: for SSEs risk management activities at a Companyreviews principal key risks and mitigating wide level, and for provision of its Internal Audit actions controls: service.
As such, its activities include: determines the risk appetite of the Group: receives regular update reports on risk working with the business units to develop management activities, including deep dive and improve operational risk management: presentations with regard to SSEs principal ensuring that business risks are identified, risks: and managed and regularly reviewed: evaluates the effectiveness of internal ensuring the regular review of internal reporting and controls.
controls relating to key risks: reporting on risk matters to the Board and While the Board retains overall responsibility, Audit Committee: reviewing the system of internal control and monitoring and testing the effectiveness of monitoring its effectiveness is primarily dealt SSEs internal controls through audit reviews, with by the Audit Committee, and its output exercises and reports and, where appropriate, is reviewed at least annually by the Board.
action plans to senior managers, directors, the Audit Committee and external Auditors: The Board and the Audit Committee have providing the Board and Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys with independent and objective assurance risk management and internal control system in with regard to SSEs control environment: accordance with the UK Corporate Governance undertaking focused risk based assurance Code the Code for the period from 1April 2013 exercises as required: and to 20 May 2014 being the last practical day prior providing risk training to senior management.
to the printing of this Annual Report.
The Board confirms that no significant failings or weaknesses have been identified in the companys management and internal control system.
The internal control procedures described in this section have not been extended to cover its interests in joint ventures.
The Group has Board representation on its joint venture companies where separate systems of internal control have been adopted.
During the year, the company responded to the Financial Reporting Councils consultation on changes to the Code to update guidance regarding internal control.
SSE welcomes and supports the changes proposed.
The roles of relevant committees and functions As with all other activities, SSEs Executive Committee is responsible for ensuring implementation of the strategy and policies determined by the Board with regard to risk management and internal control.
The Risk and Trading Committee reports to the Executive Committee.
The specific remit of this 27
