8 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Risk management and principal risks The Board has overall responsibility for our system of internal The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on controls and risk management policies and is also responsible anymatters that have arisen from the Audit Committees review of for reviewing their effectiveness.
The role of management is to the way in which risk management and internal control processes implement the Boards policies on risk and control and provide have beenapplied, including from its review of the reports of the assurance on compliance with these policies.
The Board has internal and external auditors.
established processes to meet the expectations of the UK The Board has delegated risk management responsibility to the Corporate Governance Code and those of a premium listed Risk Committee which operates under the oversight of the Audit company.
These processes include having clear lines of Committee.
The Risk Committee is not a Board committee and responsibility, documented levels of delegated authority and is made up of executives only.
It meets quarterly and reports to appropriate operating procedures.
We recognise that the system the Audit Committee.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief is designed tomanage rather than eliminate the risk of failure Financial Officer and comprises the Group General Counsel, the to achieve business objectives.
They can only provide reasonable Group Financial Controller, the Group Finance Manager, Director andnot absolute assurance against material errors, losses, ofBusiness Controls, senior representatives from Deloitte LLP, who fraudorbreaches of law and regulations.
acts as internal auditor to the Group, and other key personnel The Audit Committee supports the Board in the performance of by invitation.
its responsibilities by reviewing those procedures that relate to risk Steps are continuously being taken to embed internal control management processes and financial controls.
The assessment of and risk management further into the operations of the business controls and risk management processes provides a reasonable basis and todeal with any areas of improvement which come to for the Board to make proper judgements on an on-going basis as managements and the Boards attention.
to the financial position and prospects of the Group.
The Groups risk management framework Board Overall responsibility for risk Top down management andinternal controls Oversight and leadership of risk Receives regular risk updates and management reports approach Internal Audit Supports the Board by reviewing Audit Committee riskmanagement processes and financial controls Receives and reviews detailed Assurance riskregisters activities Reviews risk registers periodically Coordinates the risk management Risk Business process Takes action, as agreed and Committee Controls documented inthe registers Holds meetings with risk owners across the business Identifies new risks for inclusion inthe registers Updates risk registers, assesses risk ratings and documents mitigating Reviews operational risks, controls and KPIs on an on-going basis controls Bottom up Local risk registers and Identification, Businesses riskmaps assessment, mitigation and escalation of risk 9 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Internal controls framework the Board considers social, environmental and ethical matters Regional and country management are responsible for implementing in relation to the Groups business and assesses these when internal control and risk management practices within their own reviewing the risks faced by the Group: further information businesses and for ensuring compliance with the Groups policies regarding environmental and ethical matters is available on and procedures.
pages 17 to 19: and the Group has established and rolled out a Code of Conduct, During 2014, the Directors reviewed the effectiveness of the Whistleblowing Policy and Anti-Bribery Policy which is refreshed Groups system of controls, risk management and high level internal on an on-going basis.
Training has been provided to the control processes.
These reviews included an assessment of internal Board and to the senior management covering the obligations controls, in particular operational and compliance controls and their and behaviours of the UK listed company, compliance, effectiveness, supported by reports from the internal auditor, as insider dealingand market abuse.
Anti-Bribery training for well as the external auditor on matters identified in the course of its allapplicablestaff levels has been rolled out.
The Audit Committee supports the Board by regularly reviewing Risk management framework theeffectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The Groups risk management framework is designed to ensure thatmaterial business risks throughout the business are identified There were no changes to the Groups internal control over financial and effectively managed on an on-going basis.
reporting that occurred during the year ended 30 September 2014 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially The Board confirms that there is an on-going process for identifying, affect, the Groups reported financial position.
evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
This process was in place throughout 2014 and up to the date of The key elements of the internal control environment in relation approval of this annual report and meets the requirements of the tothe financial reporting process are as follows: guidance produced by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Audit review of the Groups strategic plans and objectives by the Committee has kept under review the effectiveness of the system Boardon an annual basis: ofinternal control and has reported regularly to the Board.
a detailed budget is produced annually in accordance with our The key features of the risk management process are as follows: financial processes and reviewed and approved by the Board.
the Group conducts an annual risk assessment and maintains Operational reports are provided to Executive Management country and regional risk registers.
A top down Group risk on aweekly and monthly basis and performance against the register is maintained covering risks to the overall Group.
budget is kept under regular review in accordance with the Risks are evaluated in respect of their potential impact and Groups financial procedures manual.
The regional country registers, covering the reportsto the Board on performance and key issues as assessment of risk as well as current and future mitigation they arise: activities, are discussed at the Executive Committee and key risks the Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of are presented to the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee: its duties regarding the Companys financial statements, the Board discusses and agrees the principal risks that are accounting policies and maintenance of proper internal business, included in the annual report: and operational and financial controls.
The Committee provides a direct link between the Board and the internal and external a risk management action plan is put in place to further enhance auditors through regular meetings: the Groups risk management capability.
the Board has formal procedures in place for approval of client contracts, capital investment and acquisition projects, with clearly designated levels of authority, supported by postinvestment review processes for selected acquisitions andcapital expenditure: each country is required to submit a Controls Self-Assessment confirmation to verify its compliance with the controls set over core processes.
This must be signed off by senior management before being submitted to Group: 10 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Risk management and principal risks continued The following table summarises the principal risks and uncertainties to which the Group is exposed, and the actions taken to mitigate those risks and uncertainties: Risks Mitigating Factors Strategic The Group operates in the travel environment where factors The Group monitors the performance of individual business Business such as the general economic climate, levels of disposable units and markets regularly.
The executive management team environment income, weather, changing demographics and travel reviews detailed weekly and monthly information covering a patternscould all impact both passenger numbers and range of KPIs, and monitors progress on key strategic projects.
Specific short and medium-term actions are taken to address any trading performance issues which are monitored on an on-going basis.
The Group also conducts extensive customer research to understand current levels of customer satisfaction and gathers feedback on changing consumer requirements.
Strategic The Groups strategy involves expanding its business in The Group has clearly defined appraisal processes and development developing markets, including regions of Asia Pacific and authorisation procedures for all investment expenditure to the Middle East.
Political, economic and legal systems and ensure that it is consistent with the objectives set by the Board, conditions in these countries are generally less predictable and fully considers and evaluates the risks inherent in expansion than in countries with more developed institutional structures, into new locations and territories.
subjecting the Group to additional reputational, legal and compliance risks of doing business in such economies.
The Group prioritises its investment in new contracts as part of the on-going review of its global pipeline, and the prioritisation of its capital investment and resourcing.
The Group works with in-house and external advisors to ensure risks of doing business in developing markets are identified and where possible mitigated before entering those markets.
Brand portfolio The Groups success is dependent in large part upon its ability The Group carries out extensive customer research into to maintain its portfolio of proprietary brands as well as the passengers needs and continually analyses market trends brands of its franchisors, and the appeal of those brands in order to enhance its brand and concept portfolio on an for clients and customers.
The loss of any significant partner on-going basis.
The Group has a dedicated brands team to brands, the inability to obtain rights to new brands over time work with its partner brands on a day-to-day basis, including orthe diminution in the appeal of partner brands or the Starbucks, Burger King and M&S Simply Food, as well as other Groups proprietary brands could impair the Groups ability international, national and local brands.
tocompete effectively in tender processes and ultimately havea material adverse effect on the Groups business.
Client relationships The Groups operations are dependent on the terms of airport The Groups local management structures in all its major and railway station concession agreements and on its ability geographies allow it to maintain strong relationships with its to retain existing concession contracts and win new contracts clients and monitor performance in close partnership with its either from its existing or new clients.
The Groups clients may clients management teams.
As a consequence, the Group has turn to alternative operators, cease operations, terminate a strong record of contract renewal and longstanding client contracts with the Group or increase pricing pressure on the partnerships, with the average relationship length being 27 Group.
Changing client requirements, such as splitting tenders years across its 10 largest clients.
across two or more providers, favouring local brand operators or partnering directly with brand owners, may also adversely The Group has an annual online and interview-based affect the Groups business.
client survey to ensure any concerns are being addressed.
Furthermore, the Group proactively seeks to invest in, extend and enhance its offers in its key locations, working in conjunction with its clients.
11 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Risks Mitigating Factors Operational The travel environment is vulnerable to acts of terrorism or SSP has business continuity plans in place including liaison Business war, an outbreak of pandemic disease, or a major and extreme with authorities and landlords in key locations to ensure that interruption weather event or natural disaster which could reduce the contingency plans are in place.
number of passengers in travel locations.
The Group also has comprehensive insurance at both global and local levels with leading insurers to cover, among other things, property damage, business interruption, public and product liability, employers liability, workers compensation, Directors and Officers liability, motor and other cover as required by local laws and regulations.
This cover is reviewed onanannual basis.
Supply chain SSP has agreements in place with key suppliers across the The Group conducts risk assessments of all of its key suppliers world.
The interruption or loss of supply of core category to identify alternatives and develop contingency plans in products from these suppliers to our units may affect our ability the event that any of these key suppliers fail.
The Group has to trade, whilst quality of supply issues may also impact the contractual and other relationships with numerous third parties Groups reputation and its ability to trade.
in support of its business activities.
None of these arrangements are individually considered to be essential to the business continuity of the Group.
Food commodity A substantial element of the Groups cost base comprises food The Group seeks to manage cost inflation through: pricing price inflation and drink products and raw materials.
As such, the profitability reviews: menu management to substitute ingredients in of the Groups contracts will depend on its management response to any forecast shortages and cost increases: and of its cost of goods, which also determines its ability to continuing to drive greater purchasing efficiencies through offer competitive pricing to its customers while maintaining supplier negotiations, rationalisation and compliance.
Key personnel The performance of SSP depends on its ability to attract, The Group Remuneration Committee monitors the levels of motivate and retain key employees.
The skills developed in our remuneration for senior management and seeks to ensure business are highly attractive to other companies, who regularly that they are designed to attract, retain and motivate the key target them for recruitment.
personnel to run the Group effectively.
Technology and The failure of key operational IT systems could cause The Groups IT systems receive on-going investment to ensure infrastructure interruption to the trading of the business.
that they are able to respond to the needs of the business.
systems Back-up facilities and contingency plans are in place and Advances in technologies or alternative methods of delivery, are tested regularly to ensure that business interruptions including advances in vending technology, mobile payments, are minimised and that data is protected from corruption or digital marketing and customer loyalty programmes, unauthorised use.
AllIT programmes of any significance are could have a negative effect on the Groups business if authorised and overseen by the Chief Information Officer the Group is not able to respond adequately to these and project managed using well-recognised development technological challenges.
Data protection The Group is required to comply with applicable data The Group has a well-developed PCIDSS compliance protection laws and regulations in many of the jurisdictions programme which covers relevant geographies, using a in which it operates, including by notifying, updating and risk-based approach.
It is advised on this by specialist or continually working with many regulators in the event of a third-party consultants.
Its core systems infrastructure, which breach of applicable data protection laws and regulations.
operates in almost all major territories, is designed to meet PCIDSS requirements.
In certain jurisdictions where the Group accepts debit and or credit cards at its outlets, it is becoming increasingly important to demonstrate that the Group is managing data security risks effectively and is in compliance with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards PCIDSS.
Weakness in the Groups data security controls could result in an unlawful use of card data, and the Group could face significant penalties and remediation costs, as well as material damage to its reputation.
12 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Risk management and principal risks continued Risks Mitigating Factors Financial Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to fluctuations in interest rates on its The Group maintains a balance of fixed and floating rate debt loan balances.
so that the risks associated with increases in interest rates are mitigated through the use of interest rate swaps.
Currency risk Although the functional currency of the Group is Sterling, The Groups policy in managing this financial currency risk the Groups operating cash flows are transacted in a number is to use foreign currency denominated borrowings to of different currencies.
The Groups principal currencies of ensure interest costs arise in currencies which reflect the operation are Sterling, the Euro, the US Dollar, the Swedish operating cash flows, thereby minimising net cash flows Krona and the Norwegian Krone.
The Group is subject inforeign currencies.
to currency exchange risk including translation risk and economic risk.
Liquidity and The Group needs continuous access to funding in order to The Group has put in place long-term borrowings in various debt covenants meet its trading obligations and to support investments.
currencies to meet its demand for funds.
In addition, the Group Thereis a risk that the Group may be unable to obtain the has access to a revolving credit facility should such demands necessary funds when required or that such funds will only arise on short notice.
The Groups treasury department beavailable on unfavourable terms.
maintains an appropriate level of funds and facilities to meet each years planned funding requirement.
The Groups borrowing facilities include a requirement to comply with certain specified covenants in relation to Compliance with the Groups biannual debt covenant is the level of net debt and interest cover.
A breach of these monitored on a monthly basis based on the management covenants could result in the Groups borrowings becoming accounts.
Sensitivity analysis using various scenarios is applied repayable immediately.
to forecasts to assess their impact on covenants.
Legal and Regulatory Compliance The laws and regulations governing the Groups industry have The Group has processes in place to ensure compliance become increasingly complex across a number of jurisdictions with local laws and regulations.
Depending on the nature of and a wide variety of areas, including, among others, food complexity in a country, the Group may obtain external advice safety, labour, employment, immigration, security and safety, to supplement the in-house legal and compliance team.
health and safety, competition and antitrust, consumer protection including data protection, environment, licensing The Group has a Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery and requirements and related compliance.
The Group is also Anti-Corruption Policy in place and anti-bribery training has required to comply with applicable data protection laws and been rolled out internationally.
The Groups procedures under regulations in many of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
the Policy include regular reporting by the businesses into the Risk Committee.
Compliance is monitored by Internal Audit As a UK company, the Group is required to comply with the and the Risk Committee on an on-going basis and all alleged provisions of the UK Bribery Act as well as the local anti-bribery breaches of the Code and Policy are investigated.
and anti-corruption laws in the territories in which it operates.
Food safety The preparation of food and the maintenance of the Groups The Group has food safety controls and procedures in place supply chain require a base level of hygiene, temperature that are embedded in the Groups operations.
These are maintenance and traceability, and expose the Group to possible monitored by country management teams on a regular basis food safety liability claims and issues, such as the risk of and appropriate action is taken if any issues are identified.
Training sessions are also held in country to ensure compliance with these procedures.
Labour laws Approximately 35% of the Groups employees are subject The Group works proactively as union contracts and collective and unions to collective bargaining agreements, principally in France, bargaining agreements expire or are re-negotiated from time Germany, Spain, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden and the to time to put in place measures to minimise the risk of less United States.
The Group is also subject to minimum wage favourable terms to the Group.
requirements and mandatory health care subsidisation in some of the jurisdictions in which it operates, notably the United States, the United Kingdom and China.
