Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, the Board understands the need for a robust system of internal control and risk management.
Following a review of risks to the Group, further assessments of the key risks and uncertainties facing the Group have been undertaken, which are reviewed by the Executive Committee and Board twice each year.
The directors consider the following matters to be the principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group.
These are not exhaustive and there might be additional unknown risks that could have an adverse effect on the Group.
Risk Potential impact Mitigation Change Fashion and design The Group may experience The Group will continue to design new and trends may not be inventory shortages or innovative products and will ensure a high level of responded to.
This will excesses that could result market awareness and understanding of fashion become more significant in reduced margins, or and consumer trends by carrying out market for the Group as the mix lost revenue or customer research, brand tracking, visits to trade fairs and of womens wear sales goodwill.
The Group is constantly refreshing and updating its product range.
This assists in differentiating the product to meet evolving customer needs.
As the owner of the Superdry brand, the Group is less sensitive to fashion trends than many other clothing retailers.
The appointment of a Head of Womens Wear enables greater focus on womens wear trends.
Failure to achieve longFailure to achieve planned A five year plan is in place which sets out the term business growth as growth targets could key strategic initiatives required to support the a result of either the significantly impact on planned growth of the Group.
These initiatives are lack of an effective investor appeal.
owned by the management team and progress is strategy or the failure to reported regularly to the Board.
The ongoing recruitment of experienced members of the management team is helping to drive the successful implementation of these initiatives as well as underpinning ongoing operations.
International development, which is a key component of the five year plan, is led by the Managing Director of International and Wholesale.
Good progress has been made in the past 12 months with the implementation of the international strategy, notably with the integration of the German and Spanish businesses and the development of new franchisee partnerships.
Indicates the change in overall level of risk assessment during the course of 2014 SuperGroup.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 33 Risk Potential impact Mitigation Change Failure to deliver Failure to deliver key Whilst there are still key projects to be delivered, business projects could impact a number of business critical projects have critical projects.
on the effectiveness and been successfully completed in the past 12 efficiency of business months.
Highlights include migration to the new operations or delay growth distribution centre in Burton upon Trent and the opportunities.
new IT systems supporting merchandising and HR.
Robust Board level project approval processes are in place to ensure that appropriate due diligence is carried out before a project is undertaken.
Improvements continue to be made to the project governance framework.
Regular reviews of key projects are carried out by each of the Executive Committee, Audit Committee and the Board.
Additionally, KPMG in its role as internal auditor has undertaken specific project reviews at the management teams and the Audit Committees request.
Loss of key individuals Lack of appropriately The management team has been further or the inability to attract skilled and experienced strengthened over the past 12 months, with and retain talent.
resource could result in the appointment of a Group General Counsel a delay in achieving the and new Heads of Merchandising, Finance and Groups strategic goals.
The Design team also continues to be expanded and strengthened.
Recruitment and retention practices have been reviewed and are continuously being developed to improve selection, performance and retention outcomes.
A comprehensive talent review has been carried out, enabling a clear vision of the talent needs of the Group including succession planning.
Action planning is now being implemented to ensure that the needs of the business both today and in the future will be met.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 34 SuperGroup.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued.
Risk Potential impact Mitigation Change Economic and financial The Groups results can Regular reviews and forecasting processes are in conditions result in be affected by the impact place to assess current market conditions and to challenging trading of economic conditions on ensure that any issues are dealt with in a timely conditions or economic consumer confidence and manner.
The Group continues to implement its strategies to develop and strengthen the Superdry brand globally thereby reducing its dependency on specific markets.
The Wholesale team closely manages credit terms with its trading partners to balance their ability to purchase goods with managing the risk of bad debts.
The treasury function monitors the stability of financial institutions that hold Group deposits.
Investments are spread over a number of institutions to manage risk and ensure competitive terms.
Failure to ensure that There is potential for the Ethical Trading matters are led by the COO to working conditions in the Group to suffer negative whom a dedicated sustainability team reports.
supply base are in line customer and stakeholder SuperGroup is an active member of the Ethical with the Groups ethical sentiment with associated Trading Initiative ETI.
impact on customer and investor appeal.
The Group actively engages with its supply base and expects to operate in accordance with its ethical trading code of practice.
The Group assesses the status of operating practices through a schedule of focused audits and company visits, where necessary, working with suppliers on improvement plans.
Key infrastructure or Should any of these The IT replacement programme is progressing to IT systems may be facilities be unavailable for plan, delivering systems with improved reliability unavailable due to an extended time period, and availability.
HR and merchandising systems operational problems the Groups ability to have now been replaced.
During FY15, it is or a major incident.
If a planned to replace the store POS and finance major incident impacts the systems.
The payroll system was replaced in peak trading period from FY14.
The overall IT programme will continue November to January then through until 2016. the consequences to the The completion of the migration of the Groups Groups results would be warehousing operations to the distribution more severe.
centre in Burton upon Trent has delivered a more reliable, efficient and scalable logistics capability.
The Groups business continuity planning procedures have been further developed during the Period and continue to be strengthened.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 35 Risk Potential impact Mitigation Change Brand damage may occur The strength of the Ongoing brand tracking and sales analysis occurs due to over-exposure of Superdry brand is to ensure that the brand does not become over the Superdry brand or the fundamental to the exposed in any of its markets.
Growth in more existence of counterfeit business.
There is a risk mature markets is carefully planned to avoid product.
that the brand may: i over-saturation.
become over-exposed: The Groups in-house brand protection team or ii be damaged by the works closely with third party advisers and existence of counterfeit customs authorities throughout the world to products with inferior monitor the production and sale of counterfeit quality and or design.
product and, where identified, remove it whether it be online or in the marketplace using all tools available including take down procedures and issuing proceedings.
The Group also monitors its supply chain to limit the risk of any supplier selling unauthorised product directly into the market.
Failure to comply with Failure to comply with The Groups tax and in-house legal functions legal and regulatory legal obligations or work closely with the business to identify and frameworks.
regulatory frameworks mitigate legal and regulatory risk using both in the diverse markets in internal resources and external advisers where which the Group operates either specialist or local advice is needed.
could result in financial penalties, the inability to enforce contracts and or reputational damage.
The Group increasingly A failure to adequately The Group is investing significantly in new IT transmits data protect data could lead systems and infrastructure that will enhance its electronically, creating to prosecution and security profile.
reputational damage to There is also a risk of the Good progress is being made on the Payment the brand.
loss of controlled data Card Industry PCI programme.
The Company by authorised users.
expects to be compliant by the end of 2014.
The Group has recently reviewed and strengthened its data protection training programme.
An improved training programme is currently being rolled out.
Risk of significant The Groups financial results The Group has recently upgraded its treasury changes in currency become unpredictable due policy to reflect the growing international exchange rates.
to changes in exchange dimension of the business.
The Group maintains constant management oversight, including Board review, of foreign exchange exposure and opportunities.
The Groups policy is to hedge these risks by using forward foreign exchange contracts.
This policy is set out in note 31 of this report.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 36 SuperGroup.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 SuperGroup.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 37 Governance.
Board of Directors 38 Directors Report 40 Corporate Governance Report 44 Audit Committee Report 51 Nomination Committee Report 58 Directors Remuneration Report 59 Statement of Directors Responsibility 78 Independent Auditors Report 79 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
