Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Our risk management strategy aims Risk Assessment Review to provide a continously improving, Identify Risk Committees increasingly proactive and embedded risk management capability across Assess Audit Committee Senior Executive Board the whole organisation.
Mitigating actions PLC Board Given the scale of our business, the Board of Directors The Risk Management strategy enables and supports recognises that the scope and potential impact of our key each service division and region to identify and manage business and strategic risks are subject to constant change.
This is accomplished by embedding As a result, the Board has implemented the necessary riskmanagement into the culture of the Group and framework to ensure that it has sufficient oversight of the translating risk management into operational ownership, Groups key risks.
The Board also has the opportunity to dening clear responsibilities and measuring risk regularly review the adequacy and effectiveness of our management performance.
Risk management reports regularly to the plc Board, During the year the Board has also considered the nature SeniorExecutive Board 'SEB' and Audit Committee.
and level of risk that it is prepared to accept in order to Principal risks and uncertainties deliver our business strategies and has reviewed our Our risk management strategy seeks to address the risks internal risk appetite.
and opportunities associated with the Groups strategic Risk Management at Synergy Health plc plan.
As part of the continuous review and enhancement Risk management supports the Groups vision to build ofthe Groups risk management systems, a framework alasting reputation and our core values by: setting out how the Group identies, responds and reports on risk performance has been implemented.
This strategy building and protecting the Groups reputation by translates into clear operational objectives, the ownership championing a responsible approach to business: ofrisks and performance measurement.
achieving brand and business resilience supported by Following the development and implementation of the effective risk management: major risk review, the focus through the last year has been developing the culture and capability across the Group on developing and establishing regional and functional risk to manage changing risks and opportunities: and groups and registers.
Each business division, region and Group function is responsible for owning and managing ensuring the safety and wellbeing of employees and risks within their area of responsibility.
others who could be affected by our business activities.
The regional and functional risk registers are monitored and The Board has the ultimate ownership of risk management reviewed by the Senior Executive Board to ensure effective with responsibilities cascaded into the organisation through ongoing identication, assessment, mitigation and reporting the regional and functional leadership teams.
The Board considers that the tables overleaf show the principal risks to achieving itsstrategic aims.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 Review Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Key risk and uncertainty Mitigation Expanding the business internationally Uncertainty surrounding the resilience of Despite the ongoing challenges we are committed to investing in our Business the global economy continues to present mature and emerging markets to maintain and increase market share retention and challenging trading conditions.
Cost cutting in to ensure market leadership.
expansion healthcare sectors and the ongoing economic Where there are opportunities to expand and innovate we will do constraints continue to provide uncertainties sobased on a full understanding of the risks and opportunities.
but also opportunities for the Group.
Cost leadership, service levels and quality continue to be key differentiators in the healthcare market and the Group continues toattract and retain business.
As the Group has continued to grow through The risks associated with potential acquisitions are mitigated through Acquisition risks acquisition, the risk of inheriting legacy liabilities extensive due diligence checks to ensure that opportunities for and debts remains a key uncertainty.
Existing strategic growth are balanced against financial risks.
The Group exposure includes workers compensation isproactively managing existing workers compensation claims.
liabilities attached to the former SRI business Integration planning following acquisition has been reviewed and and legacy employee compensation claims for enhanced in order to identify and address safety issues.
The Group operates across a number of Mitigation depends on ensuring that the regions have ownership of Compliance territories with different laws and codes.
In local compliance supported by risk management oversight to ensure addition, regulation, particularly relating to the that legislative changes are highlighted and effectively implemented.
environment, safety and corporate governance, The creation of the regional Risk Manager roles has further enhanced is subject to change with increasingly higher our ability to monitor and respond effectively to changing compliance levels of compliance required.
Keeping pace with, and understanding, The Groups aim is to ensure that our policies and standard the changing requirements of local legislation operating procedures set best practice, thereby ensuring across the Regions is essential to achieving compliance with legislation.
Focusing on high value-added services Information technology is an integral part of Mitigation is being achieved through the strengthening of IT resource IT infrastructure Synergys business and operational systems.
and the implementation of projects to address risks associated with legacy systems.
The failure of key IT systems would have significant impacts on business performance.
The key aim of these projects is to ensure that critical systems can be The increasing threat of cyber-attack and the fully supported, are sustainable and provide scalability as the business vulnerabilities of the Cloud in this respect are continues to grow.
The projects also offer added value through included in the Groups major risk review.
improving consistency and cost leadership.
IT systems and procedures are in place to support business continuity through the secure backing up of data and ensuring information security.
The Group provides services to highly Mitigation of these risks is dependent on having clearly established Quality regulated markets, which operate to a range quality control processes in place together with ongoing review and standards ofinternationally recognised quality standards.
procedures for implementing corrective actions where issues or compliance Our business also relies on maintaining the improvements are identied.
highest level of quality assurance to protect The Group has a well-developed quality assurance structure.
The Group adopts an approach of continuous improvement Failing to meet quality standards would of its quality assurance procedures.
have asignicant impact on our business and reputation.
34 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Key risk and uncertainty Mitigation Deriving competitive differentiation through our people The Group has built its reputation on providing Mitigating this risk through providing an attractive and stimulating Loss of expertise across a range of specialist working environment with opportunities for individuals to develop knowledge and outsourced services.
The Group differentiates ensures that the Group is well placed to continue to grow successfully expertise itself by offering exceptional support to its in both existing and new markets.
customers and this demands that the Group The Group has well-established graduate, leadership and personal attracts and retains people of the highest development programmes and has implemented a global employee calibre across its businesses.
Although employee turnover is very low the impact of losing knowledge and experience from the Group is still considered sufficient for this to remain a key risk.
The Group Chief Executive officer and other Whilst it is difficult to fully mitigate the consequences of losing leaders Loss of key key individuals are integral to the business.
The and others who might be viewed by stakeholders as being essential person loss of any of these key people could impact on tothe business, the Group aims to reduce the potential impact on the shareholder value and the future success of Group through succession planning and maintaining a strong senior the business.
Cost leadership The global nature of the Group and its Mitigation is primarily based on ensuring that the Group invests in Financial control markets necessitates robust financial and retains employees with comprehensive financial and regional and reporting control and reporting.
The Groups recruitment and leadership programmes and currency markets present additional arean important element of recruiting and developing the right talent.
Accurate financial reporting Local professional advisors who have worked with the Group over and analysis is essential to ensuring that anumber of years provide additional assurance that regional financial performance and long-term requirements are fully complied with.
The implementation of our new global financial reporting tool has remained on track, providing enhanced financial reporting and costleadership.
The financial performance of regional business units against the Groups strategic objectives is subject to regular peer review through the regional management structure.
Major projects and other internal investments Projects and internal investments are based on robust business cases.
Internal are equally critical to meeting the Groups These must clearly identify the associated risks and are subject to investment strategic objectives and failure to achieve critical review and approval.
The Group applies its established risk planned returns on investment or to deliver review processes to all major projects to ensure that risks are projects on time or agreed scope can have identied, evaluated and reviewed through the life of the project.
financial, operational, commercial and reputational impacts.
The cost of energy and global demand for raw Mitigation includes energy management programmes and strategic Commodities materials can be subject to sudden change, commodity procurement in order to ensure continuity of essential and are inuenced by geopolitical unrest and supplies and effective cost management.
Process innovation and natural catastrophes.
The economic climate quality are essential to the Group continuing to differentiate itself also continues to be challenging in respect of against its competitors.
prices and margins across all business sectors and associated logistics services.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Key risk and uncertainty Mitigation Operational risks A loss of operational capacity due to the Mitigation is achieved through the continuing development, review and Business unexpected failure of one or more facilities testing of business continuity planning.
In addition to meeting required continuity is potentially significant.
Consequently safe working, re safety and maintenance requirements, all facilities stakeholders expectations regarding have localised emergency response plans in place which aim to business continuity planning are increasingly minimise any disruption caused by incidents or plant failures.
critical elements of their assurance and The Risk Management team also works in close partnership with contractual requirements.
insurers and other partners to continually review and enhance business continuity and disaster recovery plans.
The principal property risk is re within a linen Mitigation relies on high standards of housekeeping and re protection.
Owing to an abundance of fuel sources, The Group has comprehensive re safety procedures and works a laundry re has the potential to quickly closely with the re authorities and insurers to identify and control escalate into a major conagration, leading rehazards.
to a safety hazard and loss of property and equipment.
Fire risks and controls across AST are subject to globalreview.
Fire safety in the Applied Sterilisation Technologies division could also cause significant financial loss and business continuity impacts.
Failure to maintain a safe environment which is Robust health and safety systems are a priority.
The Board is Health and attributable to a failure of our health and safety committed to creating and maintaining a safe environment and safety management systems could result in a major regularly reviews and challenges health and safety performance, incident or fatality.
This would impact on standards and targets across our business.
colleagues and other stakeholders as well Compliance with health and safety standards is monitored across the as on ourreputation.
Group through an assurance process of self-assessments and health and safety audits, with issues reported to the Senior Executive Board where necessary.
The impact from a major environmental or The business is committed to carrying on our business ethically and Environmental or ethical failure, corporate fraud or material inline with good business practices.
ethical failure non-compliance with legislative or regulatory Our commitment to sustainability remains a key value and where requirements would be damaging to Synergy possible we integrate sustainable policies into our business models Healths reputation and brand.
and our property, logistics and distribution strategies.
36 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Health and safety Risk nancing The Synergy Health plc Board and SEB are fully committed The Group ensures that all relevant insurance cover is to providing a safe workplace and managing risk: the safety maintained and has completed our objective to carry out of our colleagues, customers and other people who may be afull strategic review of risk nancing within three years of affected by our activities remains akeypriority.
With effect from April 2014 all of the Groups operations will be included in the Although the Group has had extensive safety procedures global insurance programme, with appropriate local policies inplace for many years, we constantly strive to improve and in place where required.
adopt an approach of continuous review and enhancement.
This has led to a number of initiatives including the Code of Ethics implementation of a web-based risk management The Group is committed to carrying on our business information system, online incident reporting, the ongoing ethically and in line with good business practices.
The development of global safety standards and associated Group maintains a strict Code of Ethics and subsidiary assurance programme.
anti-corruption, gifts and corporate hospitality policies, which are available to all employees.
The Group has Over the last year a Group-wide safety campaign Focus on continued to deliver Bribery Act training across the business Safety has been conceived, developed and implemented using a range of taught and e-learning training materials.
to support the launch of the new safety systems, reect Whistleblower reporting arrangements are also maintained.
theGroups commitment to safety and be the lasting internal brand for promoting safer working, our safety Risk management strategy 2014 15 culture andfuture safety initiatives.
Making Focus on The risk management strategy aims to provide a Safetyour priority helps to achieve our aim of preventing continuously improving, increasingly proactive and and reducingaccidents.
embedded risk management capability across the organisation.
This is based on devolving ownership of An effective health and safety communication strategy risksto the relevant operational and functional teams, iscritical to our success and this has included key anddeveloping globally consistent safety standards, safetymessages from the Group Chief Executive officer, systems and assurance processes.
regionalleadership and business management teams being communicated through the business.
We have carried out The benets and importance of robust and proactive a safety survey of all employees globally and engagement riskmanagement are clear, with risk management enabling with health and safety is being driven through new initiatives the Group to achieve our strategic objectives and protect including the launch of the annual CEO Safety Award.
and enhance our assets, including our reputation.
Incidents and claims In spite of health and safety management procedures andsafe working systems being in place, a small number of accidents, incidents and claims are inevitable.
Minor accidents, including slips, trips and falls, cuts and lacerations, are the leading cause of injuries to employees and the RiskManagement team is continuing to work on further reducing the risk of injuries and ill health.
Claims management has been a particular focus area with the team working closely with insurers to enhance investigation, defensibility and management of claims inorder to reduce costs and claims experience.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37
