18 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic risks Strategy for mitigation Conditions in the global economy, economic fluctuations The Group maintains a balanced portfolio of products in customer industries and volatility and cyclicality of the serving a wide range of end markets around the globe.
global chemicals and polymers markets may adversely Business performance at business unit and geographical affect the results of the Group.
level is closely monitored and corrective actions are taken as necessary.
The markets in which the Group operates are highly The Group continues to invest in existing and new competitive and the Group may lose market share to other products and technologies through R&D.
The Group producers of water-based polymers or to other products continues to invest in new facilities to allow the Group to that can be substituted for the products of the Group.
maintain its key market positions.
As part of the Groups strategic planning process it identifies and converts acquisition targets to enhance market positions and provide new technologies.
The ability of the Group to compete is highly dependent The Group continues to invest in existing and new on its ability to develop technological innovations, to products and technologies through R&D.
As part of the introduce new products and to protect its intellectual Groups strategic planning process it identifies and property, trade secrets and know-how.
Failure to do converts acquisition targets to enhance market positions so could have an adverse affect on the Group.
The failure of the Group to procure key raw materials may Sourcing strategies are in place Group-wide to access lead to production interruptions and volatility in the prices multiple sources for key raw materials and the Group of such raw materials and energy prices may adversely works closely with key suppliers to ensure availability.
affect the profitability of the Group and its working The Group looks to identify alternative raw materials capital position.
The Group actively manages margins and recovers input cost increases from customers.
Operational risks The Group may be liable for damages based on Technically qualified personnel and control systems are in product liability claims brought against its customers place around the Group to ensure products meet quality in end-use markets.
All sites operate quality management systems ISO etc.
The Group has a Group-wide product liability insurance which provides 50 million of cover.
Strategic report Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 19 Operational risks continued Strategy for mitigation Compliance with extensive environmental, health and Detailed safety, health and environmental processes are safety laws and regulations could require material documented in operating guidance which is updated and expenditure, changes in the operations of the Group communicated to staff on a regular basis.
Robust maintenance programmes are undertaken in order The manufacture, storage and transportation of chemicals to ensure that our facilities meet up to Group and local is inherently dangerous and any incidents relating to the legal requirements.
hazards which the Group faces may adversely affect its The Group operates a central internal audit function financial condition, results of operations and reputation.
dedicated to SHE issues and programmes for continuous improvement across all major SHE areas are in place Group-wide.
The ongoing success of the Group is dependent The Group offers competitive compensation packages on attracting and retaining high quality senior with annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements management and staff who can effectively manage for key employees.
Appropriate notice periods and the Groups operations.
non-compete clauses are used to mitigate short-term risk for key employees.
The Group is also developing a succession plan for key positions.
Financial risks As a significant proportion of the Groups turnover and The Group has a policy of hedging all significant foreign assets are in currencies other than UK sterling fluctuations exchange transactional exposure at operating company in currency exchange rates may significantly impact level and also holds debt facilities in several key currencies the results of the operations of the Group and may to offset fluctuations in overseas asset values.
significantly affect the comparability of financial results between financial periods.
The Groups balance sheet and cash flow or credit market The Group closely monitors cash flow and working capital conditions and credit ratings may restrict the ability of the performance on a monthly basis and regularly reviews Group to obtain credit facilities or to refinance its existing covenant compliance.
debt facilities in the longer term.
In addition, interest rate The Group has a policy on leverage limits and has fluctuations and increases in bank lending margins may adequate headroom on a twelve month forecast basis increase the Groups costs of borrowing.
through a range of facilities with varying expiry dates.
Interest rate risk is managed through the use of interest rate hedging.
The Group has funding risks relating to defined benefit The UK scheme was closed to future accrual during pension schemes and any deterioration in the value of 2009.
The risks are mitigated by paying appropriate assets in which the pension scheme have invested as contributions into the funds and through balanced against the financial obligations to make payments to investment strategies which are designed to avoid members of the schemes could have an adverse affect a material impact to the fund assets.
