TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties Effective risk management is essential to the continuedsuccessful delivery of our strategy In common with other organisations, we are affected by a number of risks, not all of which are in our control.
Some risks, such as UKmacroeconomic factors, are likely to affect the performance of UK businesses generally, while others are particular to our operations.
Thissection sets out the material risks to the Group and how we seek to mitigate them in the day to day running of our business.
Potential impact: Increased competitive position by broadening sizeable mobile base of c. 280,000 1 Competitive competition in the UK phone, andenriching the products and services customers through its Mobile Virtual environment broadbandand TV triple play market we offer and by finding ways to deliver Network Operator proposition.
These may impact financial performance.
greater value for our customers.
In FY14, product offerings enable the business to TalkTalk has continued tobuild on the compete more effectively with other Mitigation: We regularly monitor the successful launch of itsTV service triple and quad play providers in the product offerings of our key competitors aspartof the YouView joint venture, marketplace.
as well as the latest market and consumer having acquired a TV customer base trends.
This ensures we identify ofclose to1 million by the end of FY14.
opportunities to strengthen our TheConsumer business also has a Potential impact: Changes in BTs Local Loop Unbundling Wholesale Line margin between wholesale and retail 2 Regulatory regulated wholesale prices can Rental Charge Control.
Inaddition, the Group continues environment significantly impact the Groups have provided Ofcom with evidence, to work with Openreach to develop fibre performance.
argument and expert opinion to support products that incur lower set up and the case that competition, consumers provisioning costs, which will allow Mitigation: We have continued to actively interests and the development of a mass wholesale prices toreduce further.
participate in Ofcoms consultations market for super-fast broadband will be impacting on wholesale prices, especially best served by reductions in wholesale the Fixed Access Market Review and prices or, in the case of fibre, awider Potential impact: Failure to operate Mitigation: There has been continued our market share of complaints for the 3 Regulatory effective processes and controls focus this year on improving processes sector.
The Groups Regulatory Compliance compliance acrossthe Group may have an adverse and controls and clarifying lines of Committee has continued toconvene impact onthe services we deliver to accountability both in first line operations throughout the year to monitor the ourcustomers, leading to churn and and in our second line assurance function.
mitigation of operational risks, which non-compliance with regulatory There has been significant progress could give rise to customer complaints requirements.
The fines that Ofcom withdelivering improvements in our and regulatory breaches.
TheDirector canimpose on the Group and the complaints handling processes during the ofQuality & Compliance has chaired a associated negative publicity period.
This has resulted in a significant weekly operational Compliance Committee couldadversely impact our brand reduction in the overall volume of Ofcom meeting throughout the year, attended andreputation.
complaints from our customers and in by senior executives.
Potential impact: We continue Mitigation: The Executive Committee 4 Change toreview, rationalise and integrate regularly monitors progress of significant management ourITinfrastructure to simplify the change programmes and the associated wayinwhich we operate our business.
The Group Change Forum, comprised This could have an adverse impact on of senior managers, is responsible for theservices we provide to our customers establishing and monitoring adherence to and on our financial performance.
the governance framework within which change is managed.
16 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Potential impact: Failure to prevent externalguidance on its data security card details.
The Group has also adopted 5 Data security theloss or exploitation of personally capability and invests in and implements a Ten Steps to Cyber Security programme, identifiable or commercially sensitive new solutions, both to prevent and detect to increase protection against intrusion information could result in loss of security breaches.
In FY14, there have and attack: improve detection and competitive advantage, regulatory been initiatives including increased management of breaches: and increase fines, damage to the brand and hardware and removable media protection against loss of personal data.
encryption, further enhancements The Data Governance Council meets tothe Groups data loss prevention monthly to review progress against the Mitigation: The Group continually capability and roll-out of advanced risk mitigation plans aligned to the Ten reviews and seeks best practice solutions to protect customer credit Steps to Cyber Security.
Potential impact: Failure to maintain Mitigation: There has been significant of significant improvements in the 6 Network sufficient and acceptable levels of network focus during the year on ensuring optimum infrastructures ongoing growth stability and and system performance for the Groups levels of capacity are delivered and andmanagement.
resilience Consumer and Business customers could maintained to ensure no congestion lead to complaints and ultimately churn.
Welaunched a Technical Excellence programme, which has delivered a number Potential impact: The business has TalkTalk relies on a number of key suppliers Mitigation: We continue to review and 7 Key suppliers anumber of critical suppliers, the to provide network, equipment and improve our processes and controls performance of which could significantly services.
A failure in their people, around supplier selection and in-life risk affect the businesss operational and systems or processes or a failure to act management.
This helps to reduce the financial performance.
in an ethically responsible manner could likelihood and potential impact of business significantly affect TalkTalks reputation interruption due to supplier failure.
and its ability to deliver products and services to its customers.
Potential impact: Failure to deliver Mitigation: We are committed to the ability of our customers to self-help 8 Customer aseamless and positive end-to-end continually reviewing and improving the via the launch of a new Online Service experience experience of TalkTalks products and level and quality of customer service we Centre and associated diagnostic tools services and to deal with customers provide.
This financial year, we have and iii deliver better training and tools queries and complaints effectively could delivered a number of initiatives to i toour Customer Service teams so that damage our brand and lead to churn.
reduce the likelihood of customers queries and complaints can be handled experiencing service issues, ii improve more effectively.
Potential impact: Now that TalkTalk has Mitigation: In FY14, we launched a lower broad range of family entertainment as 9 Scaling TV successfully established its TV proposition, priced TV proposition for our Essentials we build scale.
In addition, our YouView the business must ensure it can continue customers.
As functionality grows, we partnership has been extended for to build scale effectively.
Failure to closely continue to focus on maintaining the another five years.
Finally, we continue monitor our customers experience of our speed and performance of the set-top toimprove the customer experience TV service and constantly improve service box through an extensive customer our self-install proposition is now our performance and the quality and value feedback programme, benchmarking customers preferred set-up method of our content offering could adversely tests and field research.
We continually and we have also developed propositions impact our brand and reputation, leading develop and renew our partnerships with and services for customers requiring to churn.
over 40content providers to ensure a wirelessconnectivity.
