Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information RISKS Our risk framework Effectively managing the risks we face 5 1 Review Identify risks Tate & Lyle is exposed to a number and monitor of risks which might have a material risks adverse effect on our reputation, operations and financial performance.
Our risk 4 2 framework Assess Respond risks and to risks interactions 3 Prioritise risks The Board has overall responsibility for the Responsibility for managing each key risk Key risks Groups system of risk management and and the associated mitigating controls is Key risks and uncertainties identied internal control.
The schedule of matters allocated to an individual executive within as part of the risk management process reserved to the Board ensures that the each division.
As part of the process, undertaken during the year, together with Directors control, among other matters, senior executive management formally some of the mitigating actions we are all significant strategic, financial and confirms once a year that these key risks taking, are set out on pages 30 and 31. organisational risks.
are being managed appropriately within It is not possible to identify or anticipate their operations and that controls have every risk that may affect the Group.
Approach been examined and are effective.
The Our overall success as a global business The Groups enterprise-wide risk conrmations and any exceptions are depends, in part, upon our ability to management and reporting process helps discussed at the Audit Committee and succeed in different economic, social management to identify, assess, prioritise Corporate Responsibility Committee, and, and political environments and to manage and mitigate risk.
This bottom-up process where appropriate, reported to the Board.
and to mitigate these risks.
involves a rolling programme of workshops, facilitated by the risk management team, During the year ended 31 March 2014, the held around the Group.
The current and Board and the Group Executive Committee forward-looking risks identied are collated undertook an exercise to consider the and reported through functional and nature and extent of the Groups risk divisional levels to the Group Executive appetite.
The results of this exercise, which Committee.
These risks are also reviewed includes a retrospective review of how the by the Board on a top-down basis to prior year risk appetite has been applied in assess the key risks facing Tate & Lyle.
This practice, are used as part of the Groups dual approach culminates in the strategic planning activities, and in identication of the Groups key business, considering ongoing mitigating actions.
financial, operational and compliance risks The Groups risk management process with associated action plans and controls continues to follow the Committee of to mitigate them where possible and to the Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway extent deemed appropriate taking account Commission COSO Enterprise Risk of costs and benets.
The COSO framework provides reviewed by the Board.
As part of the a process to manage the risk of failure to annual risk assessment process, the Board achieve business objectives and assurance also reviews emerging and black swan against material loss or mis-statement.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 29 Strategic Report RISKS | CONTINUED Risks Impact and description Examples of mitigating actions The safety of our employees, t Health and safety policies and procedures at all facilities with Safety contractors, suppliers, and the dedicated staff to ensure they are embedded and measured Failure to act communities in which we operate is t Regular review of performance and policies by the Corporate safely and to paramount.
We must operate within Responsibility Committee local laws, regulations, rules and t Business continuity capabilities in place to enable supply, as quickly maintain the safe ordinances relating to health, safety and as practicable, of product to customers from alternative sources in and continuous the environment, including emissions.
the event of a natural disaster or major equipment or plant failure operation of The operation of plants involves many t Maintain suitable insurance programme against customary risks our facilities.
risks, which could cause a temporary or t Programme of global compliance audits: senior executives also permanent stoppage in production and undertake annual executive audits at the majority of our sites could have a material adverse effect on the Group.
The Groups strategy is to become the t Investments are being made to increase the Groups sales Strategy leading global provider of speciality food andtechnical resources, including in emerging markets Failure to grow ingredients and solutions.
The ability to t New staff recruited and existing staff developed to upgrade skill in speciality deliver the strategy may be impacted by a sets particularly in customer-facing areas and innovation number of factors such as delivering t Internal capabilities have been enhanced to help promote growth food ingredients.
growth in emerging markets, acquisitions, through acquisition customer readiness to adopt new t Global programme has been established to enhance customer ingredients and launch products using account management, planning and execution them, competitor actions, and growing key product or product families.
Failure to deliver on this strategy over the longer term would negatively affect the Groups credibility and reputation.
Failure to identify important consumer t Three platforms have been established in Innovation and Innovation trends and provide innovative solutions, Commercial Development sweeteners, texturants and health Failure to innovate and the inability to successfully and wellness to drive new product development and innovation and commercialise commercialise new products, could inspeciality food ingredients impact the delivery of the Groups t Innovation and Commercial Development team works closely with new products.
This would affect its customers and other external organisations to identify emerging trends performance and reputation.
t Open innovation team actively scouts for breakthrough technologies and opportunities across industries and universities t Global marketing organisation established to provide launch support for new product initiatives as well as base business expansion t Prioritise partnership opportunities with customers to accelerate development cycles and time to market for new ingredients The safety of consumers of our products t Multiple steps in process testing in all product lines and strict quality Quality is critical.
Poor quality or sub-standard control procedures to prevent release of product without full quality Failure to maintain the products or poor customer service could control clearance have a negative impact on our reputation t Policies, procedures and performance reviewed regularly by the quality of our products and relationships with customers.
Corporate Responsibility Committee and high standards of t Third-party audit programme in place, supplemented by internal customer service.
global compliance audits t Recall simulation exercises undertaken Performance, knowledge and skills t Remuneration policies designed to attract, retain and reward People of employees are central to success.
employees with ability and experience to execute Group strategy Failure to attract, We must attract, integrate and retain t Talent development strategy to provide opportunities for develop and retain the talent required to full our ambitions employees, as well as training to close skill gaps and deliver the Groups strategy.
Inability t Single global performance appraisal and talent planning processes keypersonnel.
to retain key knowledge and adequately and system in place plan for succession could have a negative t Increased Board-level focus on succession planning for businessimpact on Company performance.
critical roles The Group operates in diverse markets t Regular monitoring and review of changes in law and regulation in Legal and and therefore is exposed to a wide range such areas as health and safety, environment, quality, food safety of legal and regulatory frameworks.
and corporate governance regulatory We must understand and comply with t Global regulatory team, supported by external consultants, Failure to comply all applicable legislation.
Any breach monitors local regulatory requirements affecting our products with legislation could have a financial impact and and how these change over time and regulation.
t Legal teams maintain compliance policies in areas such as anti-trust and anti-corruption law: and provide ongoing training to employees 30 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Risks Impact and description Examples of mitigating actions Margins may be affected by uctuations t Strategic relationships with suppliers and trading companies Raw in crop prices due to factors such as including multi-year agreements variations in local or regional harvest and t Balanced portfolio of supply and tolling contracts in operation with materials weather conditions, crop disease, customers to manage balance of raw material prices and product Fluctuations inprices climate change, crop yields, alternative sales prices and volume risks and availability of raw crops and co-product values.
In some t Raw material and energy purchasing policies to provide security materials, energy, cases, due to the basis for pricing in ofsupply freight and other sales contracts, or due to competitive t Expanding network of corn elevators to enhance security of supply markets, we may not be able to pass on t Putting in place new or back-up supply sources in case primary operating inputs.
to customers the full increase in raw suppliers face localised challenges material prices or higher energy, freight or other operating costs.
Additionally, margins may be affected by customers not taking expected volumes.
The Group has committed to a t Ongoing renements to programme based on lessons learnt Key projects programme to transform its operational in the process e. g. phased go-live approach to mitigate the Failure to implement capabilities, primarily by implementing deployment risk common ways of working supported by t Dedicated internal resources allocated to the project, working in the Groups programme a global IS IT platform and global shared conjunction with business teams to transform its services.
Issues arising in the t Formal steering committee executive management and Board operational capabilities.
implementation of this project would Audit Committee review of project progress against agreed have an adverse impact on the Groups milestones and timelines ability to achieve its strategy.
t Appointment of a highly experienced programme manager We must be fully prepared to counter t Innovation and Commercial Development and regulatory experts Reputation unexpected unfounded negative substantiate relevant product claims prior to launch Failure to counter publicity about our products and seek t Media relations advisors monitor coverage in both print and negative perceptions of to ensure the science behind our electronic media of the Group and its products and develop ingredients is supported by credible action plans to deal with any negative publicity the Groups products.
sources and is clearly communicated.
t Participation in trade organisations and industry-wide initiatives Failure to do so would have a negative to promote and protect our products impact on the Groups performance and reputation.
We must manage our nances within t Capital expenditure procedures to control and monitor allocation Finance strictly controlled parameters, particularly and spend Failure to manage when external financial conditions are t All new investments are evaluated against clear strategic and uncertain and highly changeable.
The financial criteria: those approved are subject to greater scrutiny the balance sheet, change programme currently being and have clear execution milestones particularly during undertaken by the Group consists of a t External resources and expertise used where required periods of economic number of capital expenditure projects t Exposure to liquidity risk is managed by ensuring we maintain uncertainty.
which, if not delivered successfully, could access to a wide range of funding sources, and by effective negatively affect the Groups performance management of our cash resources and reputation.
Without effective internal financial controls, t Policies to ensure that key tasks are segregated to safeguard assets Finance we could be exposed to financial t Finance and capital expenditure manuals set out procedure Failure to maintain an irregularities and losses from acts which t Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer undertake detailed could have a significant impact on the quarterly business and financial reviews effective system of ability of the business to operate.
We must t Additional control processes put in place in recognition of the internal financial safeguard business assets and ensure elevated risks posed by the implementation of the new global controls.
accuracy and reliability of records and IS IT system financial reporting.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 31
