Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Approach to Risk Management Identifying and managing our risks Our risk assessment and management process As with any business, Taylor Wimpey faces a number of risks and uncertainties in the course of the day to day operations.
It is only by effectively identifying and managing these risks that we are able to deliver on our strategic objectives of improving operating margin, return on net operating assets, cash conversion and net asset value across the cycle.
The successful management of risk is essential to enable the Group to deliver its strategic objectives.
Strategic Objectives Ourrisk management and internal control framework defines the procedures that manage and mitigate risks facing the business, rather than eliminate risk altogether and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Group Material Risk Register Principal Risks & Uncertainties assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Material Risk Register is The Board, supported by the Our risk management framework consists of risk maintained by the GMT and GMT and the Audit Committee, registers that are maintained at all organisational reviewed by the Audit Committee willidentify the Principal Risks levels, which detail the risks faced by the Group, with the promotion, removal or based on the assessment of the change of risks being made as its operating companies and the central teams that material risk register.
The Principal part of their assessment of the support the business and a wider stakeholder group.
Risks will be disclosed with the Risk Summaries and their views The registers identify key operational, financial and half and full year results.
of the changes in the strategic strategic risks to the business, with strategic risks Feedback regarding changes to risks facing the Group.
Each being identified as part of the business planning process.
Principal Risks is given to the risk Material Risk on the register will Our risk registers take into account the significance of owners who have been identified be assessed as to its likely health, safety and environmental issues, together with to manage the specific risk on impact based on the Groups social and governance matters of the Group and use behalf of the Group.
a standardised methodology for the assessment of risk.
The standard methodology used in risk management requires each risk identified to be assessed and measured according to a risk matrix.
This matrix BU & Central Risk Register BU & Central Forecast accounts for the likelihood and impact of each risk, From individual risk registers, all and Planning Process mitigating actions and hence the remaining or risks are grouped to produce a All risk registers are re-evaluated residualrisk.
Business Unit and Central Risk and completed as part of the Summary.
These risk summaries The risks identified are assessed for the potential formal budget process every six are discussed and assessed by effect on the Groups short and long term value.
Each regional business the GMT and Audit Committee.
registers are refreshed on an ongoing basis as part of our unit and central function will The GMT assessment includes financial planning cycle.
The registers feed into a formal re-assess with their senior a comparison of the risk half-yearly risk assessment that identifies the Principal management the risks they summaries over time, taking into Risks see pages 28 and 29 and allows the Board to are facing and update their account any changes in the risk re-evaluate the identified strategic risks facing the Group.
impact assessment and their views on the strategic risks facing the Group.
Risk Management & Mitigation See pages 28-29 for mor KPI e information 26 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Risk materiality process The Board determines the nature and extent of the Principal Risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives, whilst maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems.
The Board oversees the risk and control framework Principal Risks probability of theGroup and the Chief Executive is responsible Whilst the Principal Risks to the Group being able to execute its business for implementing any necessary improvements with strategy have not fundamentally changed since 2013, the likelihood of the the support of the GMT.
In line with the UK Corporate risk factors occurring may have changed.
The table below shows the residual Governance Code, the Board holds formal risk reviews likelihood of each risk following our risk mitigation strategies in both 2013 and half-yearly.
The Board reviews the risk profile of the Group 2014.
The table does not consider the relative size of the associated financial and the significant risks with the mitigating factors.
or reputational impacts for each Principal Risk item.
Medium Low High At the meeting in February 2015, the Board completed its annual assessment of risks.
This followed the Audit Committees formal assessment of risk, which was A Government policy and supported by the detailed risk assessment by 2014 2013 planning regulations the GMT, and their review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
The key risks affecting the Group were identified and agreed with the Board, together with the actions and B Impact of market environment on 2014 2013 processes required to reduce their likelihood of mortgage availability and demand occurrence and to mitigate their impact.
C Material costs and 2013 2014 availability of subcontractors D Ability to attract and r etain 2013 2014 high-calibre employees 2013 E Land purchasing 2014 2013 F Site and product safety 2014 27
