Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Principal Risks and Uncertainties The table below summarises the Groups principal risks and uncertainties.
These are not listed by order of importance.
We also maintain a Sustainability and Climate Change Risk and Opportunity Register to monitor other sustainability issues that could affect the Group.
More information is available in our Sustainability Report at www.
co. uk corporate sustainability A Relevance to strategy Potential impact on KPIs Mitigation Progress in 2014 Our ability to build our homes Inability to obtain suitable We have responded to the Our customer and community Government policy and KPI and communities is dependent consents, or unforeseen changes in planning policy by engagement strategy is planning regulations on obtaining planning permissions delays, could impact on introducing a comprehensive becoming embedded and The implementation of the and other regulatory requirements the number or type of homes community-led planning strategy having a positive effect.
National Planning Policy Framework, and permits.
We may be which improves communications the Localism Act and the Community We have been successful in required to fund higher levels with all parties but especially local Infrastructure Levy CIL has had Although the new planning system gaining planning consents of planning obligations or communities, thereby enhancing a significant impact on the planning through the year with particular is having a positive effect, it is still a additional costs to meet our ability to deliver developments system.
A further change in relatively new system with the powers emphasis on the conversion increased regulatory that meet local requirements.
Government Policy, although of the strategic land pipeline.
within the processes still being tested.
unlikely, following an election could The risk of extended timeframes for We consult with Government The locally produced CIL We continued our participation have a disrupting or destabilising agencies and opposition parties gaining consent or legal challenge charge schedules may in the local Plans Management effect on the planning system.
Any further structural on housing policy, both directly increase costs and so Group PMG, via the HBF, to and indirectly as a member of change to the process following an Responsibility impact the viability of current ensure local plans are robust election, although unlikely, could have industry groups, to highlight Chief Executive developments.
In addition, and CIL charge schedules are potential issues and to understand a slowing effect on planning consent.
where local CIL charges are appropriate.
Director of Land and Planning any proposed changes to CIL is currently being taken up slowly not in place there could be regulations.
Other members of our Senior by local authorities.
There is a risk of an impact on gaining planning Management team planning applications being delayed, consent or Judicial Review Regional Managing Directors refused or challenged post April 2015. challenge.
This could have a detrimental impact on the contribution per plot.
B The majority of the homes that we A reduction in effective Our local teams select the We offer the GovernmentImpact of market build are sold to individual purchasers demand for new homes locations and home designs backed Help to Buy scheme environment on mortgage who take on significant mortgages below normal levels could that best meet the needs of the and have seen strong interest availability and demand to finance their purchases.
A change negatively impact on both local community and customer in the scheme amongst our Mortgage availability is a key constraint in business confidence or employment profitability and cash demand in the present and future.
on the demand for housing.
Following opportunities can impact on the generation.
This would have We evaluate new outlet openings the Mortgage Market Review in April We launched a new Taylor demand for housing.
In particular an adverse effect on return on the basis of local market 2014, stricter guidelines were Wimpey website in 2013 the ability for first time buyers and on net operating assets and conditions and regularly review introduced for lenders to assess to provide best in industry investors to purchase homes is net debt.
the pricing and incentives that mortgage affordability.
In 2015, the Bank customer experience and impacted by changes in mortgage we offer.
of Englands Financial Policy Committee better insight into the availability at the higher loan-to-value FPC gained new powers, including We work closely with the Taylor Wimpey products.
levels, as it would impact on the level setting loan-to-value and debt-tofinancial services industry to of deposits required.
Throughout 2014 we have income limits for residential mortgages.
ensure customers receive good continued to develop good The new FPC policies may lead to advice on the procurement of Also, whilst the Government has working relationships with a delay in mortgage approvals and mortgage products.
extended Phase 1 of the Help to Buy established mainstream restrict the volume of approvals.
scheme to 2020, there is uncertainty lenders and those wishing over the impact when the scheme is to increase volume within removed.
Responsibility Group Management Team UK Sales and Marketing Director Regional Sales and Marketing Directors C In order to optimise our build cost If the availability of We maintain regular contact with During 2014 industry volumes Material costs and efficiency, whilst retaining the flexibility subcontractors or materials suppliers and negotiate contract continued to increase the availability of to commence work on new sites is insufficient to meet demand volume, pricing and duration demand for building materials.
subcontractors as planning consents allow, the vast this could lead to increased as appropriate.
In addition, we The Group has agreed product An increase in production following majority of work carried out on site build times, increased costs provide both high-level and site allocations and volumes the recovery of the housing market is performed by subcontractors.
and, thereby reducing specific programme information with key suppliers to mitigate may reduce the availability of materials profitability.
to aid with demand planning.
against extended lead times and subcontractors, resulting in an Without the introduction of new and potential shortages.
Lack of skilled subcontractors unexpected increase in costs.
It has Competencies are considered as resources into the housing market, could also result in higher also put pressure on utility firms to labour and material prices could part of our subcontractor selection We have made progress levels of waste being produced keep up with the pace of installation, process, particularly in relation to in delivering increased build increase.
from our sites and lower leading to build programme and health and safety, quality, previous efficiency by the ongoing build quality.
review of our standard house types and selective regional We work to address the skills Responsibility cost benchmarking.
shortage through apprenticeship Head of Procurement schemes and the Construction Regional Commercial Directors Industry Training Board.
28 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk D Relevance to strategy Potential impact on KPIs Mitigation Progress in 2014 Our value cycle requires significant Not having the right teams We closely monitor employee During 2014, we increased Ability to attract and retain KPI input from skilled people to deliver inplace could lead to delays turnover levels on a monthly our intake of apprentice and high-calibre employees quality homes and communities inbuild, quality issues, basis and conduct exit interviews, trainee schemes.
Recruiting employees with inadequate for our customers.
reduced sales levels, as appropriate, to identify any skills or in insufficient numbers, or not A programme for all senior poorcustomer service areas for improvement.
being able to retain key staff with the With the recovery in the housing managers was introduced, andreduced profitability.
right skills for the future, could have market, there is a greater incidence We benchmark our remuneration to support open dialogue and a detrimental impact on our business.
of poaching in the housebuilding to ensure we are competitive constructive conversation with market.
This, together with the recent within the industry and have employees.
The graduate and Responsibility changes in the planning system, has succession plans in place for key apprenticeship programmes Chief Executive meant that the demand for high-quality roles within the Group.
We hold continued, developing skills at Group HR Director trained employees has increased and regular development reviews to entry level positions.
is key to achieving our strategic goals.
Every employee managing people An Assessment and Development Centre was run for employees with potential for Director level roles, to support robust development plans.
E Land is the major raw material for Purchasing poor-quality or Our land teams select and The short term land market Land purchasing the Group and the limited availability mispriced land, or incorrectly appraise each site.
Our appraisal remained balanced and The purchase of land of poor quality, of good-quality land at an attractive timing land purchases would process ensures each project is disciplined throughout at too high a price, or incorrect timing price throughout the housing cycle have a detrimental impact on financially viable, consistent with 2014 enabling us to continue of land purchases in relation to the leads to significant competition.
our strategy and appropriately to source and invest in short economic cycle could impact future authorised, dependent on the term value-creating land profitability.
The purchasing of insufficient Purchasing land of the appropriate proposed scale of expenditure.
opportunities at investment land would reduce the Groups quality, on attractive terms at the right margins of around 20% Responsibility ability to actively manage its time and scale in the economic cycle, We strive to be the developer Group Management Team operating margin.
Following land portfolio, and create will enhance the Groups ability to of choice by adopting a a period of strong investment, value for shareholders.
Divisional Managing Directors deliver future profit growth as the comprehensive approach we are now at our optimum housing market recovers.
encompassing land vendors, Regional Managing Directors size of landbank.
In land agents, local councils and Regional Land and Planning Directors combination with the strong local communities.
conversion of the strategic Strategic Land Managing Directors pipeline, our reliance on Our strategic land teams work purchasing short term land alongside regional businesses to has diminished, providing identify and secure land with the some insulation from an potential for future development increase in land price.
and promote it through the planning system.
F Our operations involve, and interface In addition to the potentially We have a comprehensive health, We continue to compare Site and product safety KPI with, a large number of people.
tragic personal impact of safety and environmental HSE favourably with the UK Building sites are inherently dangerous People range from employees and an accident on site or after management system in place, housebuilding and construction places.
Unsafe practices subcontractors, to customers and customer completion, there which is integral to our business.
industry in terms of site safety.
by our employees or subcontractors their families, who live on or visit our is potential for legal proceedings, This is supported by our policies We have continued to keep have the potential to cause death sites each day.
We want all of these financial penalties, reputational and procedures to ensure that we our Annual Injury Incidence or serious injury.
people to go home at the end of the damage and delay to the live up to our intention of providing Rate AIIR low at 209 per day, safe and uninjured.
a safe and healthy working 100,000 employees and Responsibility environment and build homes contractors in 2014 2013: Chief Executive that comply with the required 207.
We reduced our AIIR for Director of Health, Safety and regulations.
We provide extensive major injuries from 60 in 2013 Environment HSE training for our employees.
During 2014, Every employee and subcontractor We run HSE induction training, we continued our site safety poster campaigns as well as training, extending training to providing regular site toolbox talks over 2,750 groundworkers for our contractors and operatives.
supervisors, each receiving a site safety supervisory All HSE issues are reviewed by qualification.
the GMT and, where appropriate, actions put in place to rectify We introduced additional issues or prevent a recurrence.
working platform lifts on all our scaffolds, resulting in a significant reduction in the risk of injury from falls or slips, particularly from operatives working at mid-floor or roof level.
We introduced specialist equipment on all sites to make ladders safer to use.
