STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT PrinciPal risks anD uncerTainTies Operational Risks Implementation of The Group is in the process of implementing The Groups IT Steering Committee meets on a two continued new ERP system Microsoft Dynamics AX across the business.
weekly basis to review the implementation and all The Board recognises there are a number of risks and uncertainties that face the Group.
The Board, with the help of the With any project of this scale, there is a risk other major IT projects.
The Committee comprises Chief Executive, the Finance Director and subsidiary directors the Executive Committee, has established a structured of a poorly managed implementation or take members of the Executive Committee and the Board approach to identify, assess and manage these risks and this is regularly monitored and updated by the Risk Committee.
up of new systems, which could lead to and is advised by professional advisers.
Although not exhaustive, the following list highlights some of the principal risks which are not shown in order of importance: business disruptions.
Strong change management and project governance with professional project managers Issue Potential impact Mitigation recruited to oversee the project team which Strategic Risks External events External events may occur which may affect the All factors affecting these stakeholders are includes key business stakeholders.
global, economic and financial environment in monitored closely on an ongoing basis ensuring People The Groups performance is linked to the Retention of key talent is important and we take which we operate.
These events can affect our that we are prepared for and can react to changes performance of our people and, in particular, to active steps to provide stability and security to the suppliers, customers and partners, risking an in the external environment, allowing us to reduce the leadership of key individuals.
We carry out an annual benchmarking increase in our cost base and adversely affecting our exposure as early as possible.
The spread individual whether at management level or within review to ensure that we provide competitive our revenue.
of our business and supply chain also helps to a specialist skill set could have a detrimental effect remuneration and total reward packages.
We also mitigate these risks.
on our operations and, in some cases, the creative utilise long-term incentive schemes to retain key Brand and The strength of our brand and its reputation are We carefully consider each new opportunity and vision for the brand.
Employee engagement through our culture reputational risk important to the business.
There is a risk that our each wholesale customer and partner with whom and environment strengthen the commitment of brand may be undermined or damaged by our we do business.
These are monitored on an ongoing team members and has a positive impact on our actions or those of our partners.
basis to ensure they remain appropriate to the brand.
Fashion and As with all fashion brands there is a risk that our The Group maintains a high level of market Succession plans are in place and have been design offer will not satisfy the needs of our customers, awareness and an understanding of consumer reviewed during the year.
resulting in lower sales and reduced market share.
trends and fashion to ensure that we remain able Regulatory and The Group operates within many markets The Group closely monitors changes in the legal to respond to changes in consumer preference.
legal framework globally and must comply with various regulatory and regulatory framework within the markets in Operational Risks Supply chain If garments do not reach us on time and to Our supply chain is diversified across a number requirements.
Failure to do so could lead to which it operates.
We work closely with specialists specification, there is a risk of a loss of revenue of suppliers in different regions, reducing reliance financial penalties and or reputational damage.
in each market to ensure compliance with local and customer confidence.
on a small number of key suppliers.
Suppliers are laws and regulations.
treated as key business partners and we work Financial Risks Currency, interest, In the course of its operations, the Group is exposed The Groups policies for dealing with these risks are closely with them to mitigate these risks.
credit and to these financial risks which if they were to arise may discussed in detail in Note 22 on pages 75 to 81.
Cost inflation We may face increases in our operating costs Operating costs are monitored regularly to ensure counterparty credit have material financial impacts on the Group.
due to growth in raw material, labour, property that any cost pressures are quickly identified and risks, including and other costs, placing pressure on our pricing appropriate action is taken.
financial covenants strategy, margins and profitability.
under the credit Infrastructure There is a risk of operational problems, including The business continuity plan is constantly facilities disruption to the infrastructure that supports our reviewed and updated by the Risk Committee.
business, which may lead to a loss of revenue, In addition, business disruption is covered by our Our disclosures, as required under Companies Act 2006, in relation to environmental matters, employees data and inventory.
including diversity data, social, community, and human rights issues are discussed on pages 20 to 22.
Social We are committed to operating in a responsible and Four members of the Executive Committee have responsibility sustainable manner as regards our supply chain, been tasked with overseeing specific areas of our The strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors on 20 March 2014 and signed on its behalf by: environment and community.
If we fail to operate social responsibility agenda.
The Group has an in a manner that supports our philosophy, this could employee whose sole responsibility is to monitor this damage the trust and confidence of our stakeholders.
agenda and ensure our practices fall in line with it.
c F anderson IT security Advances in technology have resulted in more Commitment of additional specialist resources and Secretary data being transmitted electronically, posing an the continual upgrading of security equipment and increased security risk.
There is also the possibility software mitigate these risks.
Registered office - The Ugly Brown Building, 6a St Pancras Way, London NW1 0TB of unintentional loss of controlled data by authorised users.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 11 12
