l o r t n o C n o i R t e a v u 34 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Risk management Risk identification, reporting and management framework Risk management is at the heart of our business Board and forms part of business as usual at all levels.
Sets strategic objectives Approves risk governance structure and sets the TelecityGroup risk strategy riskappetite The Board considers that the Group should have a low threshold Sets delegation of authority for risk as its operations are by definition of a high risk nature Receives and reviews Group Risk Register unless properly mitigated through effective design and high Receives and reviews Audit Committee reports on risk operational standards.
All risks are initially assessed on an governance and internal controls unmitigated basis, both in terms of probability and magnitude and then the operational and financial controls are applied Audit Committee accordingly to result in a mitigated score which is continuallymonitored.
Considers adequacy of risk management and internal control framework Risks to our employees and to other people who enter our sites Receives and reviews reports from the Risk Committee are identified as a separate category and are monitored and Receives and reviews reports from independent reviewed irrespective of mitigating factors.
assuranceproviders The impact and probability assessments indicated on page 35 are the original unmitigated figures and should not be taken as Risk Committee Executive Board indicating the actual levels of risk following the day to day controls Conducts continual review of risks and risk controls applied by the Group.
Concludes on treatment of risks Reviews and reports on risk to the Audit Committee How TelecityGroup manages risk andBoard The Groups operations expose it to a variety of risks.
Effective management of these risks is essential to the delivery of the Risk Working Group Independent assurance Groups business plans and strategic objectives, as well as ensuring the maximisation of shareholder return.
The Groups Reviews detailed risks from Internal audit approach is geared towards early identification of key risks: Countries to identify External audit mitigating or removing those risks and responding quickly common risks Quality standards and and effectively should a risk crystallise.
Provides practical Business Continuity audit assistance to risk owners, Insurer and property The Group is committed to the protection of its assets, whether in terms of knowledge risksurveyors they are physical, financial, human or reputational in nature.
andresources Effective risk management assists the Group in delivering its growth strategy, which aims to deliver controlled, sustainable Business unit and profitable growth.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that risk is Management and employees are responsible for the appropriately managed across the Group.
identification, management and reporting of local risks Maintains local risk registers Implements risk mitigation plans Assesses the effectiveness of daily controls Continuous risk process Board Identification sources Business units Health and safety audits Fire safety audits Business continuity audits Property and equipment risk surveys Company secretarial External advisors i l e a w v E n o i t a c fi i t n e d I Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 35 Business risk management The risks contained in the risk registers are rated as to their The responsibility for risk identification, analysis, evaluation, probability of occurrenceand potential impact which for Group mitigation, reporting and monitoring rests with line management.
purposes are aligned to standard Group values.
Every risk is This responsibility is discharged under the guidance of the Risk assigned to an appropriate senior manager.
All current mitigating Committee Executive Board RC, comprising the executive actions are recorded and any further action required is also Directors as well as other senior managers.
The Risk Working Group RWG which comprises regularly to consider all areas of risk to which the Group is exposed the Heads of Department at Group level assists risk owners with and appropriate steps are taken to reduce or eliminate the risks ensuring the resources are available to complete their actions or mitigate their potential impact.
in a timely fashion and to ensure that learnings from each event are communicated across the Group.
The principal tool used by the RC to monitor and report risk is the risk register.
The Group maintains risk registers at a country level An analysis of our identified principal risks and uncertainties for which consolidate to form the Group Risk Register.
The Group Risk 2014, which are largely consistent with prior years, is included on Register is submitted to the Audit Committee and the Board for pages 36 and 37. review at each meeting.
Principal risks: raw unmitigated probability & impact A K B F H O N D G I P M Q Strategic risks A Over-supply pricing B Electricity providers unable to match capacity requirements C Lease expiration D Future customer requirements E Lack of suitable acquisitions People risks F Employee health and safety G Contractor customer health andsafety Operational risks H New-build contractors cause delays I Infrastructure failure C L E J Environment and regulatorychanges K Technology changes J R Financial risks L Electricity pricing volatility M Acquisitions do not deliver expectedbenefits N Credit risk O Liquidity risk P Interest rate volatility Q Capital risk R Foreign currency risk Lower Higher Probability See p36 for more detail Mitigations Controls and Impact Lower Higher Day to day
