48 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Risk management Embedding a culture of risk management creation.
During 2014, we have formalised our dual track approach Our risk management strategy to risk management consisting of top down oversight form the Board The Board is responsible for maintaining the Groups risk management and senior management and bottom up detailed risk assessments.
and internal control systems, with a mandate that includes defining risk appetite and monitoring risk exposures to ensure that the Top down oversight nature and extent of risks taken by the Group are aligned with its strategic objectives.
The Risk Matters Group RMG and the broader risk management framework has been designed to ensure the scope of coverage includes transformational strategic, operational, financial and legal Risk appetite risks within a single framework.
The purpose of the RMG is to provide The Board has undertaken a detailed exercise to consider the risk leadership, direction and oversight with regard to the Groups overall appetite in a number of key areas for the business.
The results of risk framework, appetite, and relevant risk policies, processes and this review indicate the relative appetite of the Board across the risk controls.
The RMG meets on a bi-monthly basis, attended by senior factors and behaviours.
It is evident that this represents a view at a executives from across the Group and our external advisers, in order point in time and changes in the economic environment, strategy to provide a further dimension of insight and validation.
The chair of andperformance of the business will impact this evaluation.
the Audit Committee also regularly attends the meetings of the RMG.
The RMG reports to the Audit Committee and Risks and Disclosures The Board is aligned on the relative risks and has agreed the appetite Committee and the CEO of the Group.
for risk taking for Transformation initiatives and operational delivery is entrepreneurial.
This position aligns with the strategic aims of the The Risks and Disclosures Committee receives inputs from the Transformation programme and targets set for the business.
RMG and maintains executive oversight of the Groups key risks and mitigation strategies.
The Board seeks to minimise all Health and Safety and Reputational risks.
In all other aspects, the Board takes a balanced view on The Audit Committee considers risk exposure against risk appetite by risk taking.
profiling key risks in respect of their potential impact and likelihood of occurrence, after consideration of mitigating and controlling It is the intent of the Board to use the risk appetite to support its actions that are in place.
During the year, the Audit Committee has ongoing decision making and to review annually in the light of the reviewed both top down and bottom up risk analyses and the Board changes to the economic environment, strategic progress and has undertaken a detailed exercise to consider its risk appetite, both performance of the business.
in relation to the Transformation activity and the business-as-usual environment.
The aim of these activities has resulted in a Combined Our approach to risk management Assurance Plan, which will enable a risk-based approach to the ongoing internal audit and assurance programme.
On an annual basis, Operating in a dynamic and rapidly evolving environment requires the Board reviews risk appetite to ensure it is calibrated to the Groups a flexible and responsive risk management process that can match strategic objectives.
the pace of change and provide management with a concise view of the Groups risk profile at any point in time.
We continue to focus on further embedding a culture of risk management that will contribute towards effective strategy execution, ensuring both risk and opportunities are identified and managed to deliver long-term value Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 49 The Risk Matters Group 1 The Board Top down Overall responsibilities Sets strategic objectives and Receives and reviews Audit Oversight and assessment for the risk management defines risk appetite Committee reports on risk of risk exposures at the system governance corporate level CEO and CFO Set tone at the top Drive a culture of governance, Ensure capability and capacity controls and risk management ofthe Risk and Audit Team Audit Committee Executive Committee Risk & Disclosure Supports the Board in Maintains executive oversight Committee monitoring risk exposure of the Groups key risks and Monitors the risk against risk appetite mitigation management process 2 Sets the risk management Provides oversight and challenge Considers emerging risks process for risk management plans Operational level Bottom up Group-wide risk identification, Risk awareness and culture Implementation of risk mitigation Identification and assessment assessment and monitoring embedded across the Group plans and controls of risk exposures at segment Maintenance of risk registers and function level Bottom up assessments Our priorities for 2015 3 Risk registers are continually updated through an ongoing programme The Thomas Cook Business System see page 34 outlines our of risk workshops, with operational and financial management.
Risk is commitment to defining excellence in governance and adopting formally assessed as a standing agenda item at all monthly segment principles of risk management across the organisation and our level board meetings.
Additionally, each segment now has a quarterly processes.
Our vision for the Thomas Cook Business System extends Segment Risk Committee attended by the risk owners of all strategic beyond the parameters of conventional risk management: we are initiatives as well as the Group Enterprise Risk and Audit Team, with now implementing our plans to ensure principles of risk management key risks being escalated and discussed within the Risk Matters Group influence our approach to leadership, organisational structure, RMG.
The Segment Risk Committees analyse key segment risks business policies, performance monitoring, decision making and and ensure implementation of risk mitigation plans.
day-to-day processes are aligned to our Profitable Growth Strategy.
We do not see this is as a one-time transformational activity, but an opportunity for governance and risk management to influence the culture and ethos of our operations and people.
We will continue to develop our existing risk management framework, enhancing risk governance and improving the risk culture of our organisation.
Our priorities for next year consist of improving our reporting capabilities and the underlying risk data by utilising our risk software.
Our ongoing work with key risk indicators enables effective and efficient risk monitoring and control.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 50 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Risk management continued Principal risks and uncertainties The table below lists the principal risks and uncertainties that may affect the Group and highlights the mitigating actions that are being taken.
The content of the table, however, is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all the risks and uncertainties that may arise.
Principal risks Mitigation Failure to turnaround our UK business will UK profitability has improved significantly in FY14 reflecting the effectiveness have a significant impact on the success of of the Wave1 cost-out and profit improvement measures.
Significant progress the overall Thomas Cook Transformation has been achieved in the profitable growth strategy through new product and may be viewed negatively by our development and by strengthening web performance.
Shareholders, impacting our share price.
Failure to transform Thomas Cook into a Our strategy of digital growth is supported by the design and delivery of the new digital business may have an impact on our One Web platform.
Additionally, our plans to roll-out Concept stores will enable market share, as more and more customers the digitisation of the in-store experience and closer integration between on and use the web to research and purchase off-line.
Best practice and innovation support for our digital growth strategy is also their holidays.
provided by the Digital Advisory Board, led by the CEO and top external experts.
Our Transformation initiatives fail to deliver The CEO reviews all aspects of strategy every two weeks with the Executive our strategic and operational targets.
Team and with the Board of Directors at every Board meeting.
The CEOs Transformation Office CTmO holds monthly strategy review meetings during which progress and issues are discussed and addressed.
Furthermore, our project management framework enables project governance, transparency and reporting.
As part of this framework, regular updates are provided to project sponsors and any other key decision makers on the progress of projects against the agreed baseline in terms of cost, time and quality specifications.
Failure to expand our products and Our current strategy of profitable growth is underpinned by the continued services may have an adverse impact expansion of concept and partnership hotel programmes.
GroupHotel Procurement Team, which has recently been strengthened by several quality hires, enables process efficiency gains and synergies and will seekto minimise the lead time to the market to ensure the expansion of our hotelprogrammes is ontrack.
Failure to recruit or to retain the right We continue to make significant investment in our people attracting worldpeople at the right time will lead to a lack class talent to strengthen our leadership across the Group.
Our career site now of capability or capacity to enable the reflects the Companys high tech, high touch strategy and is designed to engage implementation of our business strategy.
Our new performance management system was implemented in 2014 to track the performance and potential of all our employees.
Our high potential talent is identified and nurtured through an Executive development programme and our Emerging Talent programme is currently being developed.
Finally, our reward schemes are constantly evaluated to drive and reward performance and to ensure retention of key talent.
Our IT operating model fails to support Our IT transformation is proceeding as planned, but some aspects require more thebusiness through the Transformation work to be done.
This project will ensure delivery of IT services and technology and our business as usual activities.
will be fit to meet the needs of rapidly changing technologies, whilst maintaining integrity and performance of existing systems and operations.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 51 1 Principal risks Mitigation Failure to build an accurate understanding Our customer-centric vision aims at improving the customer experience along of the customer means that we are unable the customer journey and developing a trusted product that can be seen as to adequately tailor and target customer akeydifferentiator in the medium and long-term strategy of Thomas Cook.
demand leading to reduced sales.
A decision or a course of action is perceived We have a clear plan in place to respond to the potential reputational negatively by the media, investors and or consequences of an event which includes close cooperation between investor general public, which in turn impacts the relations, public relations, HR and legal teams to identify and prepare responses corporate reputation of the Group and its to incidents and potential issues.
We also monitor stakeholder and political share price.
reactions to ensure we react to emerging political and regulatory developments.
Cash generation does not enable debt We proactively monitor our short, medium and long-term cash requirements 2 repayment using the most commerciallyand liquidity headroom.
Our cost-out and profit improvement initiatives favourable terms.
are successfully contributing to cash availability.
We continue to monitor all opportunities to manage liquidity requirements and maintain an adequate level of contingency as well as lowering the average cost of debt over the medium term.
A major health and safety incident The assessment of health and safety risks is inbuilt into daily management impacting our customers or colleagues.
routines and is monitored by a comprehensive structure of health and safety committees that are in turn overseen by a corporate Health, Safety & Environmental Committee with Board level oversight.
Our Health and Safety programme measures standards, audits hotels and includes a clear escalation and decision process.
Socio political uncertainties in particular Our flexible business model allows us to align our committed capacity to the increasing incidents of political fluctuating demand.
We continue to add new destinations to our portfolio and terrorist activity in the Middle East thereby mitigating the effect of factors which may negatively impact demand region impacting our key markets, as for travel to certain regions.
Our active coordination of Group-wide risk activity well as macro-economic conditions and ensures teams have early indication of emerging risk and by working with risk 3 environmental factors reduce the demand specialists deliver robust and effective mitigations.
Management information required for The Group Finance Transformation has standardised structures, processes theCompany to deliver its strategic targets andsystems and provide data driven support for decision makers.
and objectives is not clearly defined and readily available.
Failure to comply with legislative We have a dedicated Legal Team to ensure full compliance with formal regulatory requirements in the legal jurisdictions requirements which monitors all current and emerging regulatory developments.
Theteamreceives regular training to provide awareness of criticalchanges in relevant legislation or case law.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
