SECTION HEAD STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 The Group operates in a market and an industry which by their nature are subject to a number of inherent risks.
The Group is able to mitigate those risks by adopting different strategies and by maintaining a strong system of internal control.
However, regardless of the approach that is taken, the Group has to accept a certain level of risk in order to generate suitable returns for shareholders.
The Board has a reporting framework that ensures it has visibility of the Groups key risks, the potential impacts on the Group and how and to what extent those risks are mitigated.
Details of the Groups risk management processes are given in the Corporate Governance report on page 88.
The risk environment in which the Group operates does not remain static.
The nature of risk is that its scope and potential impact will change over time.
As such the list below should not be regarded as a comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties that may manifest themselves in the future.
Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to the Directors, or which they currently deem immaterial, could also have an adverse effect on the Groups future operating results, financial condition or prospects.
This section describes the current risk factors that are considered by the Board to be material, their potential impacts and the factors that mitigate them.
The inherent risk before the operation of control is stated for each risk area together with an indication of the current trend for that risk: 58 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 59 SECTION HEAD STRATEGIC REPORT Inherent Risk and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation Market Conditions The Groups products are sold to businesses, tradesmen and retail customers for a broad range of end Adverse effect on financial results.
The Board conducts an annual review of strategy, which includes an assessment of likely competitor activity, uses in the built environment.
The Groups markets are cyclical in nature and the performance of those market forecasts and possible future trends in products, channels of distribution and customer behaviour.
Inherent Risk: markets is affected by general economic conditions and a number of specific drivers of construction, The Group maintains a comprehensive tracking system for lead indicators that influence the market for the RMI and DIY activity, including housing transactions, the timing and nature of government activity to Trend: consumption of building materials in the UK.
stimulate activity, net disposable income, house price inflation, consumer confidence, interest rates and unemployment.
Significant events including those in the supply chain that may affect the Group are monitored by the Executive Committee and reported to the Board monthly by the Group CEO.
Negative or uncertain economic conditions could affect the confidence levels of the Groups customers, which could reduce their propensity to purchase products and services from the Groups businesses.
Should market conditions deteriorate then the Board has a range of options dependent upon the severity of the change.
Historically these have included amending the Groups trading stance, cost reduction, lowering capital investment and cutting the dividend.
Competitive pressures place pressure on Market trends, particularly in respect of customers preferences for purchasing materials through Adverse effect on financial results.
Changes to market practice are tracked on an on-going basis and reported to the Board each month.
prices, margins and profitability a range of supply channels and not just through the Groups traditional competitors may affect the The Group is building multi-channel capabilities that complement its existing operations and provide its Groups performance so making traditional branch based operations less relevant or profitable.
customers with the opportunity to transact with the Group through channels that best suit their needs.
Inherent Risk: Increased price transparency could cause customers to perceive that the Group is less competitive The Group is leading the industry in terms of the development of new and innovative supply solutions, and Trend: than some online traders.
works closely with customers and suppliers on a programme of continuous improvements.
Public sector buying groups could reduce sales if public bodies chose to buy direct from The Group continues to refine pricing strategies to ensure it remains competitive.
The Groups branding strategy allows it to use sites flexibly.
Alternative space utilisation models are possible, The Group faces the risk of new entrants to any of its markets, including from businesses currently including maintaining smaller stores and implanting additional services into existing branches.
operating outside its industry or only in overseas markets.
Disintermediation may become more of a threat if manufacturers decide to deal directly with the end users.
Information technology capabilities impact The Group depends on a wide range of complex IT systems, both in terms of the availability of Adverse effect on financial results.
The strategic demands of the business, the resources available to IT, the performance levels of key systems the Groups ability to trade profitably hardware and the efficient and effective operation of software.
and IT security are kept under review by the Executive Committee.
Adverse effect on the Companys reputation.
Inherent Risk: The rapid expansion of the Group together with an increasing demand for IT services, particularly as Plans that require continual investment in the IT infrastructure have been approved and are being the Group embraces modern platforms such as multi-channel, updates its point of sale systems and implemented.
Maintenance is undertaken on an on-going basis to ensure the resilience of group systems, Trend: develops its supply chain capabilities, could result in development programmes being delayed or new with escalation procedures operating to ensure any performance issues are resolved at an early stage.
IT systems and change management systems not being successfully implemented.
The Groups three data centres mirror each other with data processing switched from one to the other on a Should a system become unavailable for an extended period either through deliberate act or through regular basis.
An IT disaster recovery plan exists and is tested regularly together with the business continuity accidental failure it could impact the business ability to trade.
Arrangements are in place for alternative data sites for both trade and consumer businesses.
Off-site back-up routines are in place.
Increasing levels of sophisticated cyber-crime represent a significant threat to all businesses with the potential to cause disruption to systems or the theft and consequential misuse of confidential data.
A programme of risk oriented reviews is undertaken to ensure the level of control around the IT systems remains robust.
Colleague recruitment, retention and The ability to recruit, retain and motivate suitably qualified staff is an important driver of the Groups Inability to develop and execute The Group Human Resources Director monitors staff engagement and turnover by job type and reports to succession plans do not deliver the required overall performance.
the Executive Committee regularly and to the Board annually.
Succession plans are established for the most skills and experience senior positions within the Group and these are reviewed annually.
The strength of the Groups customer proposition is underpinned by the quality of people working Inherent Risk: throughout the Group.
Many of them have worked for Travis Perkins for some considerable time, The Groups reward and recognition systems are actively managed to ensure high levels of during which they have gained valuable knowledge and expertise.
Trend: A wide-range of training programmes are in place to encourage staff development, whilst management The Group faces competition for the best people from other organisations.
Ensuring the retention, development programmes are used to assist those identified for more senior positions.
proper development of employees and the succession for key positions is important if the Group is not to suffer an adverse effect on future prospects.
Salaries and other benefits are benchmarked annually to ensure that the Group remains competitive.
Supplier dependency could result in The Group is the largest customer to many of its suppliers.
In some cases, those suppliers are large Adverse effect on financial results.
The commercial and financial teams have established strong relationships with the Groups key suppliers shortages of product enough to cause significant supply difficulties to the Group if they are unable to meet their supply and work closely with them to ensure the continuity of quality materials.
obligations due to either economic or operational factors.
Inherent Risk: To spread the risk where possible contracts exist with more than one supplier for key products.
Alternative sourcing may be available, but the volumes required and the time it may take those The Group has made a significant investment in its Far East infrastructure to support its direct sourcing suppliers to increase production could result in significant stock-outs for some considerable time.
Trend: operation which allows the development of own brand products, thereby reducing the reliance on The Group has become more reliant on overseas factories producing products as the Group has branded suppliers.
rapidly expanded its direct sourcing capabilities.
This has increased the Groups exposure to sourcing, Comprehensive checks are undertaken on the factories producing products, the quality and the suitability of quality, trading, warranty and currency issues.
that product before it is shipped to the UK.
There is a potential for European anti-dumping legislation to be extended to encompass further Asian The Group has reacted to the increasing cyber threat by doubling the size of its team to deliver a countries which could increase the cost of some imported products.
Investments in best of breed solutions have been made that continually adapt to mitigate the risk associated with the most advanced threats.
Furthermore, the Information Security team has the full support of senior management acting as an important gateway to ensure the development of new systems is performed according to industry standard security practices.
Inherent risk: High Medium Low Trend: Increasing Static Reducing 60 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 61 SECTION HEAD STRATEGIC REPORT Inherent Risk and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation Defined benefit pension scheme funding The Group is required by law to maintain a minimum funding level in relation to its on-going Adverse effect on financial condition.
All of the Groups final salary pension schemes are closed to new members.
could increase significantly obligations to provide current and future pensions for members of its two defined benefit For the Travis Perkins scheme, pensionable salary inflation has been capped at 3% per annum.
Inherent Risk: The Schemes investment policies are kept under regular review to ensure asset profiles are kept in line with The level of contributions required from the Group to meet the benefits promised in the final salary the profile of liabilities.
Trend: schemes will vary depending upon the funding position of those schemes.
The Group has agreed deficit payment plans which currently require it to pay up to 26m per annum to The funding of pension obligations could increase due to a number of factors including poor its defined benefit pension schemes.
The repayment plans will remain in place until the next actuarial performance of the pension fund investments, falling corporate bond and gilt yields and increasing valuations, when in conjunction with the Scheme Trustees they will be reassessed to take into account the longevity of pension scheme members.
Future expansion plans are not The Groups strategic plans are predicated on the continued expansion of its UK branch network and Adverse effect on financial results.
Responsibility for identifying and implementing opportunities to expand the Groups operations rests with implemented or do not achieve the desired the development of its supply chain capabilities.
each of the divisional boards, with capital being deployed to those projects giving the best return on capital.
sales and profit improvements Large scale acquisitions in existing UK markets are unlikely due to the Groups size and the resulting The Group has identified a significant number of opportunities for expansion throughout the United Kingdom Inherent Risk: concerns of the competition authorities to ensure competitive markets.
Therefore the Group will and continues to develop alternative trading formats that will open up additional opportunities in future.
rely on developing smaller scale opportunities, in new catchment areas or in new formats within The Group continues to invest in its leading supply chain infrastructure.
Its capabilities in this area allow it Trend: existing sites or on expanding into adjacent markets in which it does not have a presence.
to source directly from manufacturers, offer superior availability to customers and operate cost efficient The Group also needs to ensure that funding is available to support its plans.
The Group has been mechanisms to deliver products to customers when they most need it.
reliant on the banking market for funding, a market that has contracted in recent years and which As part of its capital management strategy the Group has developed plans and instituted a series of metrics may continue to contract in the future.
It has established a bond issuance capability in 2014, but the that are designed to maintain opportunities to extend sources of funding.
availability of funds from that market at a sensible cost may depend upon The Groups rating which can be affected by its trading performance.
Business transformation projects fail to The Group is undertaking a large number of strategic projects throughout its business.
These Adverse effect on financial results.
All potentially significant projects are subject to detailed investigation, assessment and approval prior deliver the expected benefits, cost more or projects are intended to transform the Groups infrastructure and its information technology to commencement.
take longer to implement than expected systems and to develop its supply chain operations and its branch and store networks.
Dedicated teams are allocated to each project, with additional expertise being brought into the Group to Inherent Risk: By their nature, strategic projects are often complicated, interlinked and require considerable supplement existing resource when necessary.
As a result the expected benefits and the costs of implementation of each All strategic projects are closely monitored by the Executive Committee with regular reporting to Trend: project may deviate from those anticipated at their outset.
Inherent risk: High Medium Low Trend: Increasing Static Reducing 62 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 63
