42 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 STraTeGIC rePOrT What are the risks?
Principal risks Risks to the Strategy: execution Risk Governance Having determined the appropriate level of risk for the business, in Successful management of existing and emerging risk is critical relation to the potential for reward, the Board ensures that risks to to the long-term success of our business and a key area of the delivery of the strategic objectives are identified, assessed and management focus.
We continue to strengthen our risk governance framework which While the Nomination Committee ensures an optimum balance of skills, enables us to identify and understand more fully the threats and knowledge and experience required within the executive management opportunities in the market place, to match these against the team to deliver the strategy, the Remuneration committee ensures strengths and weaknesses of our Group and to respond accordingly.
the right reward system to drive an appropriate culture of high Our risk management process, and the risk software supporting it, performance with commensurate control.
Business performance relating helps to drive clarity, consistency, transparency and accountability to the achievement of strategic, operational and financial objectives is at every level of the organisation.
It enables us to understand and reviewed and monitored closely at Business Review Meetings chaired manage our risk exposures both individually and in aggregate across by the Chief Executive.
the Group so that, at any given time, we are incurring the right level and the right type of risk to pursue effectively our strategic goals.
The Audit committee, on behalf of the Board, seeks assurance that the We recognise that good risk governance exists when an organisation risk management and internal control system is operating effectively is intuitively sensitive to changes in its risk landscape and its risk throughout the organisation and that risks to the delivery of the profile and is quick to flex either its strategic objective and or its risk strategy and long-term viability of the business are being managed strategy, as necessary to drive long-term value.
We also recognise effectively such that the risk profile is well within the risk capacity of that this capability requires active commitment at the top, a strong the organisation and appropriately aligned with the risk appetite set independent risk function, clear, consistent risk methodology by the Board.
The Audit Committee receives this assurance from three and language, good information flows and a culture of open and lines of defence: honest communication.
Management: The Audit Committee receives presentations from Our risk governance framework, which is aligned to and embedded management on a routine basis to understand the key risks facing within our business planning cycle, is set out below and summarises their businesses and how these are being addressed.
the various risk-related roles, responsibilities and relationships Group Functions: The Audit Committee receives updates from the operating throughout the Group.
Group Risk Management committee GRMC and Group Risk function on activities relating to risk management as well as updates Strategic Risk Governance from the Group functions including their relevant compliance Risks of the Strategy: Direction functions on activities relating to the establishment of control The Board determines the strategic direction of the business and agrees standards and adherence to them.
the nature and extent of the risk it is willing to take to achieve its Internal Audit: The Audit Committee receives assurance from Internal strategic objectives.
Audit over the processes, Principal risks and business transformation However, effective risk management is dependent on the capability initiatives most critical to the Groups continued success.
and commitment of our people.
The nomination committee ensures that an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience exists Operational Risk Governance in the Boardroom to understand and manage the risk environment at Whilst ultimate responsibility for risk management rests with the Board, a strategic level, providing a culture whereby risks and assumptions effective day-to-day management of risk sits within the business.
are challenged and debated rigorously.
Management is responsible for setting the right tone at the top and establishing a culture where employees are expected to be risk aware, To ensure that the strategic direction chosen by the business represents control minded and to do the right thing.
the best of the strategic options open to it, the Board is supported by the Group Strategy function.
This function exists to facilitate and The GRMC is a Committee of the Group Management Board GMB.
inform the Boards assessment of the risk landscape and development It is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises the full membership of potential strategies by which it can drive long-term shareholder of the GMB supported by key members of the risk and control value.
On an annual basis the Group Strategy function develops an community.
The GRMC has two key responsibilities: in-depth fact base, in a consistent format which outlines the market to ensure that an effective risk management process is operating attractiveness, competitive position and financial performance by throughout the organisation: and Sector and source market.
These are presented to the Board by the Executive Directors and time set aside in April, July and September to to be involved actively in identifying, assessing and managing those allow full consideration and debate as to the level and type of risk that risks most significant to the long-term value of the organisation.
the Board finds appropriate in the pursuit of enhanced shareholder To discharge the first of these responsibilities the GRMC selects key value.
Through this process, the strategic options and the trade-offs business areas and Group functions for scrutiny and invites the MDs between risk and reward are debated upfront and through ongoing and their Risk Champions individuals chosen by the MDs to champion review and refinement are pulled progressively into the close weave of the process in their respective business areas to discuss how risk is strategic intent that best fits the business, its culture, capabilities and managed risk process and the risks identified bottom up as a result resource.
The strategy, once fully defined, considered and approved risk content.
It also receives regular presentations from the Director by the Board, is then incorporated into the Groups five-year roadmap of Group Audit Services on the ongoing level of engagement and and helps to communicate the risk appetite and expectations of the effectiveness of each Sector Source Market in relation to the risk organisation both internally and externally.
management process, specific areas of strength and weakness by individual business area and an analysis of the bottom up risks reported, along with any developing themes.
tt27 | AR 2014 | 10 10 2014 | proof 1 StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 43 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The majority of GRMC time however is reserved for the identification, tOPicS PReSenteD AnD DeBAteD assessment and management of Principal risks to the Group strategy.
At the GRMc DURinG the yeAR Individual members of the GRMC are accountable for specific Principal risks and for the quality of Risk & Control Summaries which set out the key controls on which reliance is placed and the further actions that ERM Framework & Maturity 44% are required, as necessary, to achieve targeted risk level.
These risks, Industry Regulations 6% controls and targets are reviewed and approved at the GRMC and then Internal controls 6% communicated top down to the wider business to ensure that risks Projects 19% are managed within these levels through the organisation.
The GRMC Strategy 12% also recognises the natural cycle of risk exposure, the interaction of Policies & Charters 13% individual risks and the extent to which individual risks may be offset through natural hedging or amplified through specific risk combinations.
Feedback to the Board The Director of Group Audit Services provides an update to the Audit Committee and the Board on how risk is being managed across the organisation risk process and the Executive Directors provide an update to the Board twice a year on the key risks under consideration risk content.
This feedback is reviewed and debated by the Board to Risk Governance Framework ensure management has understood the risks and that mitigation fits within its overall risk appetite.
Where there is misalignment between the risk profile and the risk appetite i. e. management are taking too much or too little risk relative to the strategic objectives the Board BOARD DiRectiOn seeks to ensure that appropriate corrective action is being taken.
During the year the Board reviewed the completeness of the Principal risks, debated risk appetite and managements alignment with it and raised issues relating to the transparency and consistency of bottom up risks reported.
a b c Nomination Remuneration Audit Committee Committee Committee Additional committees of the GMB The following committees form part of the overall risk governance framework: The Capability Committee supports the risk governance process by GROUP MAnAGeMent BOARD assessing the Groups current capability and competence against its future needs in the achievement of its strategic objectives.
The Investment Committee ensures that risk and reward is closely scrutinised prior to any acquisitions, capital expenditure and major investments.
a b c d The Projects Committee oversees cross-Group projects and ensures Group Risk Capability Investment Projects Management that interdependencies and risks both upside and downside are Committee Committee Committee Committee understood fully and guidance provided, as appropriate.
Risk Management Process The Group Risk function supports the risk management process by providing guidance, support and challenge to management whilst acting MAnAGeMent eXecUtiOn as the central point for co-ordinating, monitoring and reporting on risk across the Group.
The Group Risk function applies a consistent risk methodology across all key areas of the business.
This is underpinned by risk and control software which reinforces clarity of language, visibility of risks, controls and actions and accountability of ownership.
Although the process of risk identification, assessment and response is continuous it is GROUP RiSK MAnAGeMent AnD cOMPLiAnce FUnctiOnS OveRSiGht consolidated, reported and reviewed by senior management on a quarterly basis.
This is considered by the GRMC alongside the Groups Principal risks.
New risks are added to the Group Risk Profile if deemed to be of a significant nature so that the ongoing status and the progression of key action plans can be managed in line with the Groups targets and expectations.
GROUP AUDit SeRviceS inDePenDent ASSURAnce TT27 | AR 2014 | 10 10 2014 | proof 1 3RD Line 2nD Line 1St Line OPeRAtiOnAL StRAteGic OF DeFence OF DeFence OF DeFence GOveRnAnce GOveRnAnce tOMORROW 44 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 STraTeGIC rePOrT What are the risks?
Principal risks continued Risk landscape eXteRnAL Less Predictable Controllable UnDeRStAnD MARKet ADAPt StRAteGy GLOBAL Trade Supplier Sustainable cOnSUMeR FinAnciAL Relations Risk Development PReFeRenceS FActORS & DeSiReS ReGULAtORy enviROnMent cOnSUMeR Big Data Tax DeMAnD Anti-Bribery & Corruption Digital Devices POLiticAL vOLAtiLity nAtURAL cAtAStROPhe Unique Fuel & FX Airline neW MARKetS, Volatility & Diverse Regulatory AcqUiSitiOnS & Product inveStMentS Anti-Money StRAteGic eXteRnAL & Laundering & eMeRGinG ReGULAtORy Customer Multi-Channel New Engagement Distribution Concepts & Retention the enteRPRiSe Liquidity Controlled & Cash Distribution H&S Management inteRnAL BUSineSS OPeRAtiOnS chAnGe tALent People Financial MAnAGeMent Change Control & Reporting Data Security Business BUSineSS Transformation iMPROveMent Business OPPORtUnitieS Interruption Recruitment Insightful Continuity & Retention MI Digital Organisational Economies Staff Workplace Competence Restructure of Scale Engagement & Transition & Capability Empowerment cOntROL & MOnitOR MAnAGe chAnGe inteRnAL More Predictable Controllable Principal risks Other risks tt27 | AR 2014 | 10 10 2014 | proof 1 tODAy StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 45 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Principal risk table The ordering in the table below does not seek to provide an indication of the relative significance of the risks nor is it a complete list of all the risks to which the Group is exposed.
It does, however, highlight the change in the Groups risk profile relative to the changes experienced within the environment in which we operate Net Risk Movement and in consideration of its willingness to take on risk Risk Appetite.
RiSK nAtURe AnD cAteGORy eXtent OF RiSK MitiGAtiOn StRAteGic cOnSUMeR cOnteXt GROUP-WiDe PReFeRenceS Price, product and digital solutions play a key part in the Monitoring closely changes in consumer preferences and & DeSiReS consumers decision-making process.
Consumer research and sentiment within the wider context of our industry and the booking preferences are constantly evolving from offline to online, different sources of influence on our customers spending.
and from desktop to mobile and tablet with booking moving closer Developing new concepts and services which are unique, to the time of travel.
StRAteGic Maintaining our focus on being an online driven business, and DRiveRS RiSK tracking the gap both upside and downside between our offer We do not identify or respond quickly enough to changes and the competitions to inform effective decision-making.
in consumer preferences and do not keep up with latest technological developments.
tOUR OPeRAtOR POtentiAL iMPAct Leveraging our One Mainstream structure to enhance the cOntent portfolio of unique and exclusive products designed to increase Our market positions come under pressure resulting in lower short our competitive advantage.
to medium-term growth rates and reduced margins.
Reviewing continuously our existing concept portfolio adapting APPetite PROActive where appropriate for different source markets and opening We are passionate about anticipating customer desires and are BRAnDS & new destinations.
not afraid to be innovative and make brave decisions to ensure DiStRiBUtiOn Investing in a commom platform across One Mainstream that we remain relevant to our consumer preferences.
will provide our customers with real time, personalised, and consistent services across any of the channels in which they net RiSK MOveMent choose to interact with us.
We have made significant progress to enhance our offering of technOLOGy Developing the strong brand portfolio of tailor-made products unique end-to-end experiences to our consumers.
This however and services within our Specialist businesses and reviewing has been off-set by evolving consumer desires & expectations.
opportunities to extend it into new markets.
This inspires us to invest in innovation and strive continuously to Focusing on being online throughout the whole of the customer be one step ahead journey - from inspiration, to booking, to the holiday itself, as GROWth well as returning and sharing experiences through social media.
& ScALe Key RiSK inDicAtORS incLUDe Launching a range of successful applications e. g. the TUI Digital Competitor activity Assistant app and Crystal Ski Explorer.
Customer net promoter scores OnLine AccOMMODAtiOn Brand performance PeOPLe Reviewing closely our offer to ensure that we have a wide variety of product, in terms of quality, destination and budget.
Developing continuously our digital content ensuring it is clear, relevant and well presented in order to capture the market and ensure customer loyalty and repeat customers.
Updating and upgrading IT platforms to ensure our Wholesaler and OTA businesses are supported by effective and efficient systems improving the service delivery to our global customers that underpins our growth strategy.
See Our key strategic drivers page 14 TT27 | AR 2014 | 10 10 2014 | proof 1 46 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 STraTeGIC rePOrT Principal risk table continued RiSK nAtURe AnD cAteGORy eXtent OF RiSK MitiGAtiOn StRAteGic BUSineSS cOnteXt GROUP-WiDe iMPROveMent The Group is heavily reliant on legacy systems, processes Driving stronger and more cost-effective relationships with OPPORtUnitieS and structures which, in some cases, are outdated, complex key service providers through better co-ordination of key and inefficient.
Strengthening our internal control environment through the RiSK continued rollout of the COSO control framework across StRAteGic We do not address successfully the legacy inefficiencies and Financial Reporting, Compliance and Operational categories DRiveRS complexities of our existing infrastructure.
of control through the establishment of Group Finance, Legal & Regulatory and IT Compliance.
POtentiAL iMPAct Strengthening our project and programme management We incur higher costs due to inefficiencies, impacting our ability to competency and capability to deliver change on time, on cost optimise business performance and provide a value-added service and on scope.
cOntent Strengthening business continuity management in our various APPetite PROActive businesses to build resilience into our operations.
We are passionate about innovation and adding value to our customers and look actively for opportunities that might tOUR OPeRAtOR strengthen our strategic and tactical agility.
BRAnDS & Continuing to build on the foundations of One Mainstream DiStRiBUtiOn which, implemented last year, allows us to take full advantage net RiSK MOveMent of our scale and buying power and delivers more effective operations without compromising customer experience.
We are constantly seeking new opportunities to add value Increasing controlled distribution thereby reducing third party to all our stakeholders supported by a strengthened project costs and enabling a direct relationship with our customers.
management approach ensuring we optimise our ability to technOLOGy deliver maximum benefits Continuing to expand our portfolio of new concept stores, which incorporates digital elements and inspiration in recognition of the fact that retail remains an important part Key RiSK inDicAtORS incLUDe of the booking process.
Project status GROWth Focusing on developing a personalised service through & ScALe Common platforms vs. local implementing a system Connect which allows customer COSO maturity by business information to be shared across multiple booking platforms.
Maximising technological efficiencies through the consolidation of finance and reservation systems across multiple source PeOPLe markets and inter-linking systems to ensure a seamless customer experience while also generating more robust and reliable management information.
Continuing to deploy the Dreamliner across One Mainstream giving our customers a superior flight experience and allowing us to offer new long-haul destinations and more capacity to existing ones.
OnLine AccOMMODAtiOn Continuing our IT transformation programme in our Wholesaler and OTA businesses to improve overall competitiveness and facilitate the rapid integration of new brands whether acquired or organically developed.
Progressing our strategy of consolidating our market-leading position by further expanding in existing destinations whilst focusing on our development in both new source markets as well as new destinations.
Extending our Bedsonline customer base accommodation provider through effective partnering with easyJet.
Planning to drive superior growth by developing new distribution channels and new customer segments in this market.
See Our key strategic drivers page 14 tt27 | AR 2014 | 10 10 2014 | proof 1 StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 47 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION RiSK nAtURe AnD cAteGORy eXtent OF RiSK MitiGAtiOn StRAteGic neW MARKetS, cOnteXt GROUP-WiDe AcqUiSitiOnS & The Group continues to look into new markets as the Coordinating M&A activity at a Group level to identify and inveStMentS traditional Mainstream markets mature.
Specialist businesses, optimise the best growth opportunities available to the business.
online accommodation and new markets represent a significant opportunity to participate in longer-term travel growth trends tOUR OPeRAtOR and have higher growth potential.
Developing and delivering the participation strategy for both StRAteGic outbound and domestic tour operations in new markets, to DRiveRS RiSK create long-term growth and improved shareholder value.
We do not maximise potential growth opportunities to deliver Strengthening our position in the Indian market through results in new markets due to lack of investment appetite, short increased shareholding in Le Passage to India inbound termism and difficulty in leveraging Group assets and integrating and MICE destination management services and TUI India operations and systems.
domestic and outbound tour operator.
cOntent POtentiAL iMPAct OnLine AccOMMODAtiOn Our potential long-term growth rates and margins are impacted, Reviewing continuously our strategy for targeting emerging with cash flows lower than anticipated and significant absorption markets, in particular in Africa, Asia and Latin America.
Developing our presence in the Asia Pacific with AsiaRooms.
BRAnDS & APPetite OPen DiStRiBUtiOn com and in Brazil with MalaPronta.
com and attracting new We are willing to consider all markets, acquisitions and investments customers through increased brand awareness.
to drive long-term sustainable growth value.
net RiSK MOveMent technOLOGy In light of the ongoing challenging trading environment in Russia and Ukraine we took the decision to make an impairment of 28m against loans to our joint venture in the fourth quarter GROWth Key RiSK inDicAtORS incLUDe & ScALe Market analysis Partner assessment Integration post acquisition PeOPLe See Our key strategic drivers page 14 TT27 | AR 2014 | 10 10 2014 | proof 1 48 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 STraTeGIC rePOrT Principal risk table continued risk Nature aNd category exteNt of risk mitigatioN oPeratioNaL gLobaL coNtext grouP-wide fiNaNciaL Geo-political events continue to highlight the inherent risks within Ensuring that hedging cover for fuel and foreign currency is factors travel and tourism, whilst the ongoing banking sector recovery and taken out ahead of source market customer booking profiles the introduction of Basel III have the potential to impact long-term to provide certainty of input costs when planning pricing financing availability.
The cross-border nature of trading exposes our and capacity.
business to fluctuations in exchange rates and complex tax laws.
Tracking the foreign exchange and fuel markets to ensure strategic In addition a significant proportion of operating expenses are in the most up-to-date market intelligence and the ongoing drivers relation to aircraft fuel which is also subject to fluctuation.
appropriateness of our hedging policies.
Maintaining high-quality relationships with tax authorities risk through regular communication keeping them informed of We do not manage adequately the volatility of exchange rates and the commercial reality of our business operations.
fuel prices or other rising input costs: we face an increase in tax authorities taking a more strident tax approach in order to fund Monitoring our funding and liquidity position to ensure key growth local fiscal deficits: and difficulties in securing additional facilities, facilities are refinanced well ahead of maturity.
We recognise & scaLe the impact that different aspects of our operations can have on if needed, and at a reasonable cost.
our access to financial facilities and seek to ensure that these PoteNtiaL imPact are appropriately understood and controlled.
During the year We suffer increased costs which reduce demand resulting in lower we refinanced our banking facilities with the signing of a new revenue and or margins.
We face a negative impact on cash flow, 1.4bn bank credit facility.
lengthy tax litigation processes and possible reduction in the Maintaining high-quality relationships with the Groups key Groups after-tax earnings.
financiers and monitoring compliance with the covenants contained within our financing facilities.
aPPetite cautious We are careful to ensure as stable and as predictable an environment as possible in relation to FX and fuel, tax, funding and liquidity.
Net risk movemeNt We continue to manage our global business through challenging economic times.
This has given us the opportunity to build resilience in to our business and strengthen our day-to-day operations key risk iNdicators iNcLude Compliance to policy Market intelligence Media exposure risk Nature aNd category exteNt of risk mitigatioN oPeratioNaL coNsumer coNtext grouP-wide demaNd Spending on travel and tourism is discretionary and price sensitive.
Maintaining our focus on creating lifetime relationships The economic outlook remains uncertain with different source with our customers through great service and fantastic markets at different points in the recovery cycle.
also waiting longer to book their trips in order to assess their Leveraging our scale, flexiblility and exclusivity in order strategic financial situation.
to deliver sustainable, profitable growth and out-perform drivers the market.
risk We do not respond successfully to changes in consumer demand tour oPerator and or the consumer preference for late booking.
Assessing our product offering in the context of the confidence levels and cost of living pressures being PoteNtiaL imPact coNteNt experienced by our customers.
Our short-term growth rates and margins are lower than anticipated.
Exploiting the flexibility and resilience of our business model aPPetite oPeN and the functionality of our sophisticated capacity and yield We are willing to consider options which add value to our customers management systems in order to drive margins and profits and secure and improve the flexibility, resilience and attractiveness growth by ensuring that capacity is closely aligned to forecasts.
braNds & of our business model.
distributioN oNLiNe accommodatioN Net risk movemeNt Continuing to exploit our model which involves minimum commitment risk and operates extremely well in relation to We are operating in an increasingly dynamic environment.
Demand for leisure travel remains strong and, as our main techNoLogy markets recover from economic stagnation, we are well positioned to maintain our market-leading positions and grow further key risk iNdicators iNcLude growth Consumer sentiment & scaLe GDP growth Competitor monitoring PeoPLe tt27 | AR 2014 | 10 10 2014 | proof 1 StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 49 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION RiSK nAtURe AnD cAteGORy eXtent OF RiSK MitiGAtiOn OPeRAtiOnAL tALent cOnteXt GROUP-WiDe MAnAGeMent The Groups success depends on its ability to retain key Assessing continuously our organisational competence and management and it relies on having good relations with capability against that required to maximise current and future its colleagues.
Ensuring succession plans are in place for all identified business StRAteGic RiSK critical roles, in particular emergency successors for all Source DRiveRS We are unable to attract and retain talent, build future Market and Sector Board roles, and that these plans are leadership capability and maintain the commitment and trust reviewed every six months.
Using our Group-wide leadership framework including our Your Voice survey to engage and empower people whilst POtentiAL iMPAct delivering results and managing performance.
We do not maximise our operating results and technOLOGy financial performance.
Continuing to attract high quality talent from across the world in to our International Graduate Leadership Programme and APPetite OPen local graduate schemes.
We are willing to invest in the appropriate levels of competence Enhancing continuously our existing development programmes and capability to drive the future success of our business.
for senior managers and executives and adding new programmes PeOPLe for junior managers.
net RiSK MOveMent Driving high performance and engagement through our Our people are a key differentiator for TUI Travel, they set us performance review, development plans and career apart from our competition.
This year our focus in HR has been planning process.
on developing a consistent, effortless and engaging experience for Extending our risk & control and doing the right thing objectives our colleagues, which in turn will be transferred to our customers down through the organisation as part of developing a strong culture of effective risk governance.
Key RiSK inDicAtORS Focusing on enabling our people digitally in support of our Your Voice Survey results commitment to be an online-driven company.
Talent gap analysis Employed vs. contracted ratio RiSK nAtURe AnD cAteGORy eXtent OF RiSK MitiGAtiOn OPeRAtiOnAL POLiticAL cOnteXt GROUP-WiDe vOLAtiLity, Providers of holiday and travel services are exposed to the inherent Maintaining a balanced destination mix to minimise nAtURAL risk of domestic and or international incidents affecting some concentration and having flexible supplier agreements in cAtAStROPheS countries destinations within their operations.
order to enable capacity to be switched as required.
AnD OUtBReAKS Leveraging our unique products and strong brand to drive RiSK earlier booking, giving us more time to react to external events.
We are not able to respond efficiently and effectively to Reviewing trading outlooks  with the large-scale events.
management team of each business area during our regular StRAteGic business review meetings and developing operational DRiveRS POtentiAL iMPAct contingency as appropriate.
We suffer significant operational disruption in our Source Markets Maintaining strong relationships with local tourism bodies, and destinations leading to significant losses holiday cancellations, travel and aviation industry associations, actively monitoring repatriation of customers and a general decline in consumer demand the political situation in volatile destinations and acting upon and increase in our insurance premiums.
security intelligence advice as it is received.
cOntent Minimising the impact of negative events in our Source Markets APPetite cAUtiOUS and destinations by ensuring the effective execution of our We are careful to ensure we have the appropriate levels of flexibility established incident management and emergency response & resilience in our business model to withstand shocks to our plans and the deployment of our experienced leadership teams operations and ultimately our customers.
GROWth to support and repatriate stranded customers.
& ScALe Tracking hotel commitments and prepayments on a timely and net RiSK MOveMent sufficiently granular basis to manage our financial exposure to We operate in a market segment that, as a matter of course, justifiable levels.
has to weather external events.
Our strong, flexible and resilient Promoting the benefits of travelling with a recognised and business model enables us to continue with minimal disruption leading tour operator to increase consumer confidence and to our day-to-day activities and customers peace of mind.
Key RiSK inDicAtORS Local intelligence Passengers by destination Media coverage See Our key strategic drivers page 14 TT27 | AR 2014 | 10 10 2014 | proof 1 50 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 STraTeGIC rePOrT Principal risk table continued RiSK nAtURe AnD cAteGORy eXtent OF RiSK MitiGAtiOn cOMPLiAnce ReGULAtORy cOnteXt GROUP-WiDe enviROnMent Industries in which the Group operates are highly regulated, Addressing issues affecting the industry and our customers particularly in relation to consumer protection, aviation and through our political and regulatory affairs team, who engage the environment.
with regulators and governments to help ensure legislation that is fit for purpose, properly balances the interests of industry StRAteGic RiSK and consumers and treats all industry players fairly.
DRiveRS We do not establish an effective system of internal control Lobbying for greater clarity and simplification of the Package to ensure we operate in compliance with all legal and Travel Directive to ensure a level playing field across the regulatory requirements.
industry for all those involved in putting together more than one element of a holiday flight, transportation, POtentiAL iMPAct accommodation, excursions etc.. We suffer negative impact which damages our reputation, cOntent Maintaining a comprehensive Anti-Bribery & Corruption ABC results in reduced revenue and or higher input costs.
training programme across the Group ito raise awareness of APPetite ADveRSe the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010 in order to prevent bribery and corruption in the countries in which we operate.
We have a low tolerance to instances of non-compliance and are careful to be a good corporate citizen in all of the countries Monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the ABC GROWth in which we operate.
& ScALe procedures and measures established, in order to prevent bribery and corruption in the countries in which we operate.
net RiSK MOveMent Delivering a sustainability strategy across the Group, to develop more sustainable holidays and to reduce the environmental We have engaged consistently with the European Commission, impact at each stage of our customers journey.
A dedicated the European Parliament and with member states as they have sustainable development team supports the Group and works considered these reforms [Air Passenger Rights and Package closely with business management see our Sustainable Travel Directive] and will continue to do so over the coming Development section on page 24.
12 months Maintaining our leadership position on carbon reporting and performance.
Ranked joint first place in the FTSE 350 for Key RiSK inDicAtORS climate change reporting and transparency in the 2014 Carbon Market intelligence Disclosure Project.
Operating the most fuel efficient airlines in Propensity to claim Europe reducing per passenger carbon emissions by 10.3% Media exposure over the last six years.
