Strategic Report Risk Management Sound risk management is essential to run the business efficiently, pursue our strategy successfully and ensure the sustainability of UBM Structure and control Remuneration It is important we We control the business through a short During 2013, we updated our executive chain of command and a relatively flat remuneration policy to enhance the have the appropriate organisational structure.
During 2012, links between performance and reward.
we created an Executive Committee Exco Below Board level, bonus rewards processes in place to to act as an advisory sounding board for are also aligned with the strategy the CEO and CFO.
Aside from the obvious through incentives to achieve UBMs measure and control inclusion of Tim Cobbold, the Exco was budget and personal objectives which also expanded during 2014 to include specifically address strategic priorities.
the performance of the Mark Peters and Eleanor Phillips.
See pages 42 and 43 for Exco members and Governance business and also to detail about their experience.
The tenure Effective governance is the cornerstone of of people within the business is indicative a well-managed organisation and UBM has identify where there of the stability of the organisation.
well-established processes and policies in place to support our operations worldwide.
may be risks to the The Exco meet monthly in person or via conference call.
In addition, the CEO and Our policies, which are available to all strategy and how best CFO regularly meet with their direct reports.
employees via the Hub UBMs social We track operational performance on a business network, cover issues such to mitigate them monthly basis and also have a thorough as anti-bribery and corruption, business quarterly review process in which divisional conduct, use of social media, labour CEOs and CFOs provide updates on standards, information security performance and expectations against and human rights.
These reviews are shared with the Board as part of the CFOs board pack In response to recent changes to the UK and discussed at the meetings.
Corporate Governance Code, we have identified the steps we will need to take We have invested significantly in a UBMto thoroughly review our risk management wide finance and reporting system, CORE, and internal controls and give consideration which went live in EMEA and the US to the new viability statement.
Asia went live in January necessary processes are already in place, 2015.
Consistency of data across the there is always room for improvement and business helps the CEO and CFO manage management will be addressing each of more effectively and also supports the these areas through the remainder of 2015. benchmarking and best practice initiatives showcased in GEM.
We also expect Risk management that the system will lead to greater The graphic to the right illustrates our efficiency and reduced costs in finance approach to identifying and managing and administration processes in the risk.
UBM employs both a top down and medium term.
a bottom up approach to identifying risk.
Risk management process Further reading Governance Report: pg 49 The divisional management teams manage and monitor these risks, with the CEO and CFO providing guidance, the internal and external audit teams providing assurance and the Board providing oversight.
20 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Top Down Risk management We have previously used a Scenario Planning process to UBM employs both a top down and examine new trends which could affect UBM and its businesses a bottom up approach to identifying risk This year, as part of the process for creating the new Strategy, Scenario planning Monitoring and various members of Exco led strategy creation refreshing specific workstreams which Adjusting strategic emphasis examined the existing and future characteristics of our products, our services and our customers Strategic and and how they engage with us operational consideration Risk analysis and Board evaluation by Exco review Bottom up Risk In the Business Unit Risk management Identification and Assessment exercise, the internal audit team engages with business units and corporate functions semi-annually Business unit risk identifcation to compile a comprehensive list Monitoring and and refreshing of risks which could have an impact assessment exercise on the operational performance of the business UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 Strategic Report Risk Management continued Our annual risk review identified the following key risks: Risk Strategic link Impact Mitigation Change MacroA slowdown in the macro-economic environment Our Agile growth priority takes into account economic could adversely impact revenue, as advertising, where we choose to operate so we can explore slowdown and attendee, sponsorship and other discretionary diversification across different markets and or exchange revenue tends to be cyclical.
Similarly investment rate in Customer insight and innovation will bring us fluctuations A downturn may also result in slower debt greater visibility and should improve our ability collections, thereby affecting cash flow.
to respond to macro changes more quickly.
Foreign exchange rate fluctuations could adversely Market and credit collection trends are closely affect our reported earnings and the strength of monitored and regularly reported at a divisional our balance sheet.
Credit policies are reviewed where necessary.
Exchange rate risk is partially hedged by issuing debt in currencies to which we have significant exposure.
Advanstar Clearly acquisitions are an important part of our We seek to reduce acquisition risk by applying integration risk strategy the most notable being the Advanstar strict strategic and financial criteria, and have acquisition.
Integration issues or failure to realise well-documented acquisition and integration operating benefits or synergies may impact the processes.
expected returns from the acquisition.
For Advanstar, we have put in place an integration More generally, as part of the Agile growth priority steering committee, chaired by the CEO, through it remains our intention to acquire to enhance the which the integration programme is managed and UBM portfolio.
There will be regular reports to the Board on progress.
More generally, our Agile growth priority focuses on industries or geographies which are adjacent to areas in which we already operate.
Internal audit and the Board monitor the process closely.
Specific country Our business operates in many geographies, As part of our Agile growth priority we are risk and particularly Emerging Markets, which may present disciplined about deciding where we choose Emerging logistical and management challenges due to to operate and new market entry is subject to Market different business cultures, languages, anti-bribery monitoring by the Board and internal audit review.
exposure laws, health and safety standards or unfavourable changes in applicable law or compliance In China specifically, we engage in proactive requirements.
stakeholder management to foster strong relationships with the government and The Chinese government, for example, industry operators.
recognises the value of the exhibitions industry and is encouraging expansion in venue capacity, As part of our High performance culture and in growth in the market and, in turn, creating our pursuit of Operational excellence we have increased competition.
processes in place which look to minimise these risks.
We integrate key owners and managers of Expansion through joint ventures reduces our joint venture partners into our development logistical and management issues but can create programmes.
We send experienced employees governance challenges or affect our ability to into new regions to work with local management extract rewards from our investment.
teams, in order to show them how UBM does business.
We adopt rigorous global controls and strong financial systems and compliance requirements new markets are subject to the same standards and policies as all other business regions.
Compliance and governance risks are managed through legal and operational reviews.
UBM adopts global ethical and operational standards which meet or go beyond local requirements.
22 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Strategic priorities Change on 2013 Agile growth Operational excellence No change Customer insight Standardised technology Risk increased and innovation and data Risk decreased High performance culture Risk Strategic link Impact Mitigation Change Inability to A disaster or natural catastrophe, terrorism, Our contractual terms and conditions generally stage an political instability or disease could affect peoples protect us from the risks of late cancellations and event or inability willingness to attend our events, which could have we carry business interruption insurance to reduce of customers an adverse effect on our revenues.
We foster strong relationships to travel with venue operators and plan for alternative to an event Similarly the business model relies on the locations.
Sometimes we will postpone and or availability of venues for hosting events.
move an event if necessary.
Our Agile growth priority takes into account diversification and, where relevant, reducing dependence on particular sectors or countries.
Our customer insight and innovation priority explores alternative ways to engage and the best way to support the industries we serve in the absence of a live tradeshow.
Changes in We cannot predict all the changes which may Our risk identification process identifies emerging our business affect the competitiveness of the business, behavioural trends which require action.
environment such as changes in customer behaviour, or technological innovations which would increase Customer insight and innovation is a strategic competition or make some products or services priority so that we can more quickly identify less relevant.
Social media platforms, search changes in the business environment.
This engines and other online technologies could coupled with our Operational excellence and all pose a competitive threat to our businesses, High performance culture seek to differentiate as could changes in legislation or compliance our proposition from the competition and ensure requirements where we operate.
our offering satisfies customers needs and delivers value.
Similarly, additional venue capacity for example: NECC in Shanghai is introducing competition as We invest in innovative digital products through well as enhancing opportunities for growth.
internal and external development and through acquisition, and over time, seek to reduce exposure to products which are at risk, such as print advertising.
Each division closely monitors trends and provides regular updates to senior management.
Technological As part of its strategy, UBM will be investing in the We shall look to mitigate project-related risks risk: execution technology platforms of the business, starting with through robust project management, close and cyber UBM EMEA.
Failure to deliver these projects monitoring by internal audit and the Board, security effectively could lead to increased costs, delays and by assigning responsibility at ExCo level.
or erosion of UBMs competitive position.
Our IT function operates under clearly defined System failure could have a significant impact on policies, procedures and maintenance our business.
The collapse of the Cloud on which programmes.
Disaster Recovery Plans are in place various products and systems are hosted could for key systems and these are subject to regular have negative consequences for our reputation.
Our internal audit and information security departments regularly review IT systems and Unauthorised access to our systems by external security, and we conduct periodic penetration parties could lead to reputational damage and tests of primary systems.
legal action, most notably for PR Newswire which handles potentially price sensitive earning information for certain clients.
Access to Although the rights issue improved our balance We maintain ample liquidity and our policy is to capital sheet flexibility, changes in the availability or cost maintain a manageable maturity profile.
We intend of financing may affect our acquisition strategy.
to refinance in advance of maturities in order to minimise risk.
We use borrowing facilities to fund requirements at short notice and at competitive rates.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23
