RISKS OUR RISK APPETITE AND PROCESSES Unilever operates a wide range of processes and activities APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT across all its operations covering strategy, planning, execution and performance management.
Risk management is integrated Risk management is integral to Unilevers strategy and to the into every stage of this business cycle.
These procedures are achievement of Unilevers long-term goals.
Our success as an formalised and documented and are increasingly being organisation depends on our ability to identify and exploit the centralised and automated into transactional and other opportunities generated by our business and the markets we information technology systems.
In doing this we take an embedded approach to risk management which puts risk and opportunity assessment ASSURANCE AND RE-ASSURANCE at the core of the leadership team agenda, which is where Assurance on compliance with the Code of Business Principles we believe it should be.
and all of our Code Policies is obtained annually from Unilever management via a formal Code declaration.
In addition, there Unilever adopts a risk profile that is aligned to our Vision to double are specialist compliance programmes which run during the year the size of our business while reducing our environmental footprint and vary depending on thebusiness priorities.
These specialist and increasing our positive social impact.
Our available capital and compliance programmes supplement the Code declaration.
other resources are applied to underpin our priorities.
We aim to Our Corporate Audit function plays a vital role in providing to both maintain a strong single A credit rating on a long-term basis.
management and the Boards an objective and independent review of the effectiveness of risk management and internal control Our approach to risk management is designed to provide systems throughout Unilever.
reasonable, but notabsolute, assurance that our assets are safeguarded, the risks facing the business are being assessed and mitigated and all information that may be required to be disclosed is reported toUnilevers senior management including, where BOARDS ASSESSMENT OF COMPLIANCE appropriate, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
WITH THE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORKS ORGANISATION The Boards, advised by the Committees where appropriate, The Unilever Boards assume overall accountability for the regularly review the significant risks and decisions that could management of risk and for reviewing the effectiveness of have a material impact on Unilever.
These reviews consider the Unilevers risk management and internal control systems.
level of risk that Unilever is prepared to take in pursuit of the business strategy and the effectiveness of the management The Boards have established a clear organisational structure controls in place to mitigate the risk exposure.
withwell defined accountabilities for the principal risks that Unilever faces in the short, medium and long term.
This The Boards, through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the organisational structure and distribution of accountabilities assessment of risks, internal controls and disclosure controls and responsibilities ensures that every country in which we and procedures in operation within Unilever.
They have also operate has specific resources and processes for risk review considered the effectiveness of any remedial actions taken for and risk mitigation.
This is supported by the Unilever Leadership the year covered by this report and up to the date of its approval Executive, which takes an active responsibility for focusing on the by the Boards.
principal areas of risk to Unilever.
The Boards regularly review these risk areas, including consideration of environmental, social Details of the activities of the Audit Committee in relation to and governance matters, and retain responsibility for determining this can be found in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages the nature and extent of the significant risks that Unilever is 56 to 57. prepared to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
Further statements on compliance with the specific risk FOUNDATION AND PRINCIPLES management and control requirements in the Dutch Corporate Unilevers approach to doing business is framed by our Purpose.
Governance Code, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the US Our Code of Business Principles sets out the standards of Securities Exchange Act 1934 and the Sarbanes-Oxley 2002 behaviour that we expect all employees to adhere to.
Day-to-day Act can be found on pages 46, 47 and 48. responsibility for ensuring these principles are applied throughout Unilever rests with senior management across categories, geographies and functions.
A network of Code Officers and Committees supports the activities necessary to PRINCIPAL RISK FACTORS communicate the Code, deliver training, maintain processes and procedures including support lines to report and respond to Our business is subject to risks and uncertainties.
On the following alleged breaches, and to capture and communicate learnings.
pages we have identified the risks that we regard as the most relevant to our business.
These are the risks that we see as most We have a framework of Code Policies that underpin the Code material to Unilevers business and performance at this time.
There of Business Principles and set out the non-negotiable standards may be other risks that could emerge in the future.
We have also of behaviour expected from all our employees.
commented below on certain mitigating actions that we believe help us to manage these risks.
However, we may not be successful For each of our principal risks we have a risk management in deploying some or all of these mitigating actions.
If the framework detailing the controls we have in place and who is circumstances in these risks occur or are not successfully responsible for both managing the overall risk and the individual mitigated, our cash flow, operating results, financial position, controls mitigating that risk.
business and reputation could be materially adversely affected.
In addition, risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to Unilevers functional standards define mandatory requirements vary from those described, which may include forward-looking across a range of specialist areas such as health and safety, statements, or could impact on our ability to meet our targets or accounting and reporting and financial risk management.
be detrimental to our profitability or reputation.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance 49 RISKS CONTINUED DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK BRAND PREFERENCE As a branded goods business, Unilevers success depends on We continuously monitor external market trends and collate the value and relevance of our brands and products to consumers consumer, customer and shopper insight in order to develop across the world and on our ability to innovate and remain category and brand strategies.
Our strategy focuses on investing in markets and segments which Consumer tastes, preferences and behaviours are constantly we identify as attractive because we have already built, or are changing and Unilevers ability to anticipate and respond to these confident that we can build, competitive advantage.
changes and to continue to differentiate our brands and products is vital to our business.
Our Research and Development function actively searches for ways in which to translate the trends in consumer preference and taste We are dependent on creating innovative products that continue into new technologies for incorporation into future products.
to meet the needs of our consumers.
If we are unable to innovate effectively, Unilevers sales or margins could be materially Our innovation management process deploys tools, technologies adversely affected.
and resources to convert category strategies into projects and category plans, develop products and relevant brand communication and successfully roll out new products to our consumers.
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Unilevers strategic investment choices will affect the long-term Our Compass strategy and our business plans are designed to growth and profits of our business.
ensure that resources are prioritised towards those categories and markets having the greatest long-term potential for Unilever.
Unilevers growth and profitability are determined by our portfolio of categories, geographies and channels and how these evolve Our acquisition activity is driven by our portfolio strategy with over time.
If Unilever does not make optimal strategic investment a clear, defined evaluation process.
decisions then opportunities for growth and improved margin could be missed.
SUSTAINABILITY The success of our business depends on finding sustainable The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan sets clear long-term solutions to support long-term growth.
commitments to improve health and well-being, reduce environmental impact and enhance livelihoods.
Underpinning Unilevers Vision to double the size of our business while reducing these are targets in areas such as hygiene, nutrition, sustainable our environmental footprint and increasing our positive social sourcing, fairness in the workplace, opportunities for women and impact will require more sustainable ways of doing business.
inclusive business as well as greenhouse gas emissions, water and This means reducing our environmental footprint while increasing waste.
These targets and more sustainable ways of operating are the positive social benefits of Unilevers activities.
We are dependent being integrated into Unilevers day-to-day business.
on the efforts of partners and various certification bodies to achieve our sustainability goals.
There can be no assurance that sustainable Progress towards the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan is monitored business solutions will be developed and failure to do so could by the Unilever Leadership Executive and the Boards.
The Unilever limit Unilevers growth and profit potential and damage our Sustainable Living Plan Council, comprising six external specialists corporate reputation.
in sustainability, guides and critiques the development of our strategy.
CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Successful customer relationships are vital to our business and We build and maintain trading relationships across a broad continued growth.
spectrum of channels ranging from centrally managed multinational customers through to small traders accessed Maintaining strong relationships with our customers is necessary via distributors in many developing countries.
for our brands to be well presented to our consumers and available for purchase at all times.
We develop joint business plans with our key customers that include detailed investment plans and customer service objectives and we The strength of our customer relationships also affects our ability regularly monitor progress.
to obtain pricing and secure favourable trade terms.
Unilever may not be able to maintain strong relationships with customers and We have developed capabilities for customer sales and outlet design failure to do so could negatively impact the terms of business with which enable us to find new ways to improve customer performance the affected customers and reduce the availability of our products and enhance our customer relationships.
50 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK TALENT A skilled workforce is essential for the continued success Resource committees have been established and implemented of our business.
These committees have responsibility for identifying future skills and capability needs, developing career Our ability to attract, develop and retain the right number of paths and identifying the key talent and leaders of the future.
appropriately qualified people is critical if we are to compete and grow effectively.
We have an integrated management development process which includes regular performance reviews underpinned by a common This is especially true in our key emerging markets where there set of leadership behaviours, skills and competencies.
can be a high level of competition for a limited talent pool.
The loss of management or other key personnel or the inability to identify, We have targeted programmes to attract and retain top talent attract and retain qualified personnel could make it difficult to and we actively monitor our performance in retaining talent manage the business and could adversely affect operations and within Unilever.
SUPPLY CHAIN Our business depends on purchasing materials, efficient We have contingency plans designed to enable us to secure manufacturing and the timely distribution of products alternative key material supplies at short notice, to transfer to our customers.
or share production between manufacturing sites and to use substitute materials in our product formulations and recipes.
Our supply chain network is exposed topotentially adverse events such as physical disruptions, environmental and industrial These contingency plans also extend to an ability to intervene accidents or bankruptcy of a key supplier which could impact directly to support a key supplier should it for any reason find itself our ability to deliver orders to our customers.
in difficulty or be at risk of negatively affecting a Unilever product.
The cost of our products can be significantly affected by the cost We have policies and procedures designed to ensure the health of the underlying commodities and materials from which they and safety ofour employees and the products in our facilities, and are made.
Fluctuations in these costs cannot always be passed to deal withmajor incidents or crises including business continuity on to the consumer through pricing.
Commodity price risk is actively managed through forward buying oftraded commodities and other hedging mechanisms.
Trends are monitored and modelled regularly and integrated into our forecasting process.
SAFE AND HIGH QUALITY PRODUCTS The quality and safety of our products are of paramount Our product quality processes and controls are comprehensive, importance for our brands and our reputation.
from product design to customer shelf.
They are verified annually, and regularly monitored through performance indicators that drive The risk that raw materials are accidentally or maliciously continuous improvement activities.
Our key suppliers are externally contaminated throughout the supply chain or that other product certified and the quality of material received is regularly monitored defects occur due to human error, equipment failure or other to ensure that it meets the rigorous quality standards that our factors cannot be excluded.
In the event of an incident relating to the safety of our consumers or the quality of our products, incident management teams are activated in the affected markets under the direction of our product quality, science, and communications experts, to ensure timely and effective market place action.
SYSTEMS AND INFORMATION Unilevers operations are increasingly dependent on IT systems Hardware that runs and manages core operating data is fully and the management of information.
backed up with separate contingency systems to provide real time back-up operations should they ever be required.
We interact electronically with customers, suppliers and consumers in ways which place ever greater emphasis on the need for secure We maintain a global system for the control and reporting of and reliable IT systems and infrastructure and careful management access to our critical IT systems.
This is supported by an annual of the information that is in our possession.
programme of testing of access controls.
Disruption of our IT systems could inhibit our business operations We have policies covering the protection of both business in a number of ways, including disruption to sales, production and and personal information, as well as the use of IT systems and cash flows, ultimately impacting our results.
Our employees are trained to understand these requirements.
There is also a threat from unauthorised access and misuse of sensitive information.
Unilevers information systems could be We have standardised ways of hosting information on our public subject to unauthorised access or the mistaken disclosure of websites and have systems in place to monitor compliance with information which disrupts Unilevers business and or leads to appropriate privacy laws and regulations, and with our own policies.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance 51 RISKS CONTINUED DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION Successful execution of business transformation projects is All acquisitions, disposals and global restructuring projects key to delivering their intended business benefits and avoiding are sponsored by a member of the Unilever Leadership Executive.
disruption to other business activities.
Regular progress updates are provided to the Unilever Leadership Executive.
Unilever is continually engaged in major change projects, including acquisitions and disposals and outsourcing, to drive continuous Sound project disciplines are used in all merger, acquisitions, improvement in our business and to strengthen our portfolio and restructuring and outsourcing projects and these projects are capabilities.
resourced by dedicated and appropriately qualified personnel.
The performance of third party outsourced providers is kept under Failure to execute such transactions or change projects constant review, with potential disruption limited to the time and successfully, or performance issues with third party outsourced cost required to install alternative providers.
providers on which we are dependent, could result in under-delivery of the expected benefits.
Furthermore, disruption may be caused in Unilever also monitors the volume of change programmes under other parts of the business.
way in an effort to stagger the impact on current operations and to ensure minimal disruption.
EXTERNAL ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL RISKS AND NATURAL DISASTERS Unilever operates across the globe and is exposed to a range The breadth of Unilevers portfolio and our geographic reach of external economic and political risks and natural disasters help to mitigate our exposure to any particular localised risk that may affect the execution of our strategy or the running of to an extent.
Our flexible business model allows us to adapt our operations.
our portfolio and respond quickly to develop new offerings that suit consumers and customers changing needs during Adverse economic conditions may result in reduced consumer economic downturns.
demand for our products, and may affect one or more countries within a region, or may extend globally.
We regularly update our forecast of business results and cash flows and, where necessary, rebalance investment priorities.
Government actions such as fiscal stimulus, changes to taxation and price controls can impact on the growth and profitability We have continuity planning designed to deal with crisis of our local operations.
management in the event of political and social events and natural disasters.
Social and political upheavals and natural disasters can disrupt sales and operations.
We believe that many years of exposure to emerging markets have given us experience operating and developing our business In 2014, more than half of Unilevers turnover came from emerging successfully during periods of economic, political or social change.
markets including Brazil, India, Indonesia, Turkey, South Africa, China, Mexico and Russia.
These markets offer greater growth opportunities but also expose Unilever to economic, political and social volatility in these markets.
TREASURY AND PENSIONS Unilever is exposed to a variety of external financial risks in Currency exposures are managed within prescribed limits and by relation to Treasury and Pensions.
theuse of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Further, operating companies borrow in local currency except where inhibited by Changes to the relative value of currencies can fluctuate widely local regulations, lack of local liquidity or local market conditions.
andcould have a significant impact on business results.
Further, We also hedge some of our exposures through the use of foreign because Unilever consolidates its financial statements in euros it currency borrowing or forward exchange contracts.
issubject to exchange risks associated with the translation of the underlying net assets and earnings of its foreign subsidiaries.
Our interest rate management approach aims to achieve an optimal balance between fixed and floating rate interest exposures on We are also subject to the imposition of exchange controls by expected net debt.
individual countries which could limit our ability to import materials paid in foreign currency or to remit dividends to the parent company.
We seek to manage our liquidity requirements by maintaining accessto global debt markets through short-term and long-term Currency rates, along with demand cycles, can also result in debt programmes.
In addition, we have high committed credit significant swings in the prices of the raw materials needed facilities for general corporate purposes.
Group treasury regularly monitors exposure to our banks, tightening Unilever may face liquidity risk, ie difficulty in meeting its obligations, counter-party limits where appropriate.
Unilever actively manages associated with its financial liabilities.
A material and sustained its banking exposures on a daily basis.
shortfall in our cash flow could undermine Unilevers credit rating, impair investor confidence and also restrict Unilevers ability to raise funds.
52 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK We are exposed to market interest rate fluctuations on our floating We regularly assess and monitor counter-party risk in our rate debt.
Increases in benchmark interest rates could increase customers and take appropriate action to manage our exposures.
the interest cost of our floating rate debt and increase the cost of future borrowings.
Our pension investment standards require us to invest across a range of equities, bonds, property, alternative assets and cash In times of financial market volatility, we are also potentially exposed such that the failure of any single investment will not have a material to counter-party risks with banks, suppliers and customers.
impact on the overall value of assets.
Certain businesses have defined benefit pension plans, most now The majority of our assets, including those held in our pooled closed to new employees, which are exposed to movements in investment vehicle, Univest, are managed by external fund interest rates, fluctuating values of underlying investments and managers and are regularly monitored by pension trustees increased life expectancy.
Changes in any or all of these inputs and central pensions and investment teams.
could potentially increase the cost to Unilever of funding the schemes and therefore have an adverse impact on profitability Further information on financial instruments and capital and cash flow.
and treasury risk management is included in note 16 on pages 114 to 119.
ETHICAL Acting in an ethical manner, consistent with the expectations Our Code of Business Principles and our Code Policies govern the of customers, consumers and other stakeholders, is essential behaviour of our employees, suppliers, distributors and other third for the protection of the reputation of Unilever and its brands.
Unilevers brands and reputation are valuable assets and the Our processes for identifying and resolving breaches of our Code of way in which we operate, contribute to society and engage with Business Principles and our Code Policies are clearly defined and the world around us is always under scrutiny both internally regularly communicated throughout Unilever.
Data relating to such and externally.
Despite the commitment of Unilever to ethical breaches is reviewed by the Unilever Leadership Executive and by business and the steps we take to adhere to this commitment, relevant Board committees and helps to determine the allocation there remains a risk that activities or events cause us to fall of resources for future policy development, process improvement, short of our desired standard, resulting in damage to Unilevers training and awareness initiatives.
corporate reputation and business results.
LEGAL AND REGULATORY Compliance with laws and regulations is an essential part Unilever is committed to complying with the laws and regulations of Unilevers business operations.
of the countries in which we operate.
In specialist areas the relevant teams at global, regional or local levels are responsible for setting Unilever is subject to local, regional and global laws and regulations detailed standards and ensuring that all employees are aware in such diverse areas as product safety, product claims, trademarks, of and comply with regulations and laws specific and relevant copyright, patents, competition, employee health and safety, the to their roles.
environment, corporate governance, listing and disclosure, employment and taxes.
Our legal and regulatory specialists are heavily involved in monitoring and reviewing our practices to provide reasonable Failure to comply with laws and regulations could expose Unilever assurance that we remain aware of and in line with all relevant to civil and or criminal actions leading to damages, fines and laws and legal obligations.
criminal sanctions against us and or our employees with possible consequences for our corporate reputation.
We have a Tax Risk Framework in place which sets out the controls established to assess and monitor tax risk for direct Changes to laws and regulations could have a material impact and indirect taxes.
on the cost of doing business.
Tax, in particular, is a complex area where laws and their interpretation are changing regularly, leading to the risk of unexpected tax exposure.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance 53
