STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT The successful delivery of Acacias strategy depends on our ability to manage risks appropriately in a manner that does not jeopardise the interests of our stakeholders.
For this reason, we conduct risk assessments throughout the year as part of business performance and operational reviews, including: Group-level risk workshops to consider overall strategic risks to the business Operational risk workshops focused on specific operational risks in the context of each of our operations Functional risk workshops to assess key matters which could affect underlying support functions, such as treasury, tax, technical services and business improvement, required for our long-term business plans Monthly operational and financial performance reporting Our annual business plan and budgeting process incorporates risks identified through the above reviews.
Residual risks are then identified based on the effectiveness of existing controls and mitigating action plans prepared for all high-impact areas.
When compiled, all risk assessments are assessed by the Senior Leadership Team in the first instance, the Audit and EHS&S Committees, where relevant and appropriate, and ultimately form the basis of a detailed Board review.
Further detail as regards the outcome of the Boards internal control and risk management review for the year is provided opposite.
Risk management framework Principal risk rating matrix Current year Previous year Board Ultimately responsible for effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems.
1 1 3 Audit EHS&S Committee Committee 4 2 4 9 9 35 6 Senior Leadership Team 7 Accountable for the design and implementation 7 of risk management processes and the consistent application of risk management systems.
8 General managers and functional heads LOW IMPACT HIGH Ensure risk management compliance is embodied in Acacia culture, practices and operations.
Implementation of enhanced operational systems 3.
Political, legal and regulatory developments 4.
Significant changes to commodity prices 5.
Equipment effectiveness Internal audit function 6.
Safety risks relating to mining operations Assists the Board and Management in executing their responsibilities.
Occupational health and life-threatening diseases 9.
Environmental hazards and rehabilitation 22 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 RARE PROBABILITY ALMOST CERTAIN STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 82 For our full principal risks and uncertainties 2014 Risk Review During the year we have made significant changes to the way that we run our business, which has resulted in a number of changes to our principal risks profile.
Whilst our principal risks continue to fall within four broad categories: strategic risks, financial risks, external risks and operational risks, as a result of a range of cost control and revised operating and planning initiatives implemented during the year, the following risks are no longer viewed as principal risks to the management and operation of our business: i costs and capital expenditure: ii utilities supply: iii land acquisitions: iv organisational restructuring: and v loss of critical processes.
In addition to this and again due to enhancements made to business practices throughout the year, we have allocated a medium risk rating to the following risks, previously viewed as high-level risks in 2013: We have continued to enhance community relations practices this year, having seen noticeable benefits through the Community relations investments made by the Acacia Maendeleo Fund and other community relations initiatives, in addition to the continued successful implementation of our stakeholder engagement model and social management plans.
In addition, we continue to work on enhancements to our corporate social responsibility strategy, particularly with a view to enhancing economic empowerment initiatives, and other measures that enhance relationships with our local stakeholders, such that we believe we have adequate initiatives in place to manage and mitigate material risks to such relationships.
We have continued to strengthen employee relations and practices during the year, noticeably through the implementation of Employee, contractor our new accountable management system and enhanced practices for industrial relations management.
We also successfully and industrial relations implemented core elements of organisational restructuring at Bulyanhulu throughout the year and continue to advance our targets for workforce localisation across the Group, such that risks relating to employees and contractors are now viewed as having a medium impact to our business.
Whilst it will never be possible to give assurances or certainty as regards reserves and resources estimates due to the varying Reserves and resources nature and various factors which can impact such estimates, as a result of the improvements we have introduced, and will estimates continue to implement as regards mine planning and cost controls this year, we believe that we have reduced certain exposures in this context, such that risks in this regard are now viewed as having a medium impact to our business.
As noted in the financial review of the year, we have made significant progress in the management and recoverability of Acacias Taxation reviews indirect tax receivables, particularly in the context of VAT, such that whilst any significant change to the taxation regime in Tanzania could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, our 2014 risk rating reflects the positive progress made to achieve resolutions to existing disputes.
In conjunction with the re-assessment of certain risks, we have also looked at the impact of emerging risks to our business, and believe it is appropriate to add the following as new principal risks this year, given their importance to ongoing operations: Despite the significant health, safety and risk management systems that Acacia has in place for its underground and surface Safety risks relating mining operations, mining and in particular underground mining is subject to a number of hazards and risks in the workplace, to mining operations such as fall of ground relating to underlying geotechnical risks, potential fires and mobile equipment incidents, such that safety incidents in the workplace may unfortunately occur and did occur in 2014.
Throughout 2014 we have made a number of enhancements to mine planning and financial modelling practices as part of Implementation of enhanced continuing reviews of existing operational systems and models, required to support increased productivity and ongoing reductions operational systems in operating cost profiles.
Given the ongoing nature of systems reviews and the importance of this to the achievement of future business objectives, we believe it appropriate to monitor the implementation of enhanced operational systems as a principal risk going forward.
Previously we have reviewed risks relating to equipment effectiveness in the context of availability of critical processes.
However, Equipment effectiveness as part of ongoing reviews we have decided to separate this into a standalone risk in order to chart equipment availability, utilisation and productivity as required to meet increasing output levels.
In prior years we have viewed occupational health and disease risks as medium, given the range of health and safety controls Occupational health across our business.
However, given the impact of certain epidemics this year across the African region, notably the impact of and  Ebola in West Africa, we have heightened monitoring of risks relating to occupational heath and life-threatening diseases thisyear.
The principal risk rating matrix opposite shows how we have allocated residual risk ratings across our principal risks following the 2014 Risk Review.
In addition, the table entitled principal risks and uncertainties on page 82 sets out a description of each of our principal risks, along with commentary as regards management responsibility, mitigating action and key progress made in 2014 for further information purposes.
In addition to those risks stated, there may be additional risks unknown to Acacia and other risks, currently believed to be immaterial or that relate to the gold mining industry more generally, that could turn out to be material to the Group.
Additional discussions of certain trends and uncertainties that may affect our operations are provided as part of our Strategic report.
The information relating to Acacias performance included on pages 24 to 45 inclusive of this Annual Report and the information relating to its principal risks and uncertainties on pages 82 to 85 inclusive of this Annual Report, is incorporated by reference into this Strategic report and is deemed to form part of this Strategic report.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 23 PERFORMANCE REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW 2014 was a watershed year for Acacia as we returned to free cash generation for the first time since 2011, exceeding our initial production guidance and reducing all-in sustaining costs year-on-year by 18%.
24 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION In this section: Operating review 26 Financial review 36 Sustainability review 42 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 25
