GOVERNANCE PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Potential Change Further Risk Key management responsibility Mitigation comment Progress made in 2014 impact from 2013 information Strategic Risks Single country risk All of Acacias revenue is derived from production at its three operations in Chief Financial Officer Acacia assesses a wide range of potential growth opportunities Continuing evaluation High Please Tanzania.
In order to ensure continued growth, the Group needs to identify new Vice President, Exploration.
to build on its existing portfolio, particularly acquisition and of corporate development see our resources and development opportunities through exploration and acquisition targets.
development opportunities outside Tanzania to maximise opportunities across Africa.
Exploration This is particularly the case in the context of the identification of potential growth growth potential and to help mitigate the effects that significant review.
Entry into West Africa through opportunities in other territories, something which is required to strengthen the developments in Tanzania could have on our business.
Earn-In Arrangement for South business through geographic diversification in order to mitigate the effects that Hound Project in Burkina Faso.
significant in-country developments could have on our operations and business.
Financial Risks Significant changes to commodity prices Acacias financial performance is highly dependent on the price of gold and, to a Chief Financial Officer.
Acacias strategic objective is to provide maximum exposure Ongoing review of commodity High Please see lesser extent, the price of copper and silver.
Fluctuations in the pricing of these to the price of gold and, as such, a no-gold-hedging policy price fluctuations as part of our Financial commodities, which are largely attributable to factors beyond Acacias control, has been adopted.
Acacia has entered into hedging financial management controls.
will likely have a corresponding impact on Acacias financial condition, particularly arrangements for certain commodity exposures copper, in the context of rapid pricing fluctuations.
silver and diesel to attempt to mitigate the impact of pricing fluctuations for such commodities.
We also monitor our exposure to commodity price fluctuations as part of financial and treasury planning and controls procedures.
External Risks Political, legal and regulatory developments Acacias exploration, development and operational activities are subject to extensive laws Vice President, Corporate Affairs.
Acacia management assesses legal and political risks Continuing enhancement of High Please see and regulations governing various matters in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Acacias as part of its evaluation of potential projects.
It actively Governmental and regulatory the Strategic ability to conduct its business is dependent on stable and consistent interpretation and monitors legal and political developments in countries in engagement and dialogue.
application of laws and regulations applicable to mining activities and its operations, which its existing operations are located.
Acacia management particularly in Tanzania.
Changes to existing applicable laws and regulations, a more actively engages in dialogue with Governments and legal policy stringent application or interpretation of applicable law and regulation, or inconsistencies makers in regions in which it is present to discuss all key legal and irregularities in the interpretation of applicable law and regulation by relevant Government and regulatory developments applicable to its operations.
authorities could adversely affect the progression of Acacias operations and development projects.
Acacias operations and financial condition will also be adversely affected if existing Mineral Development Agreements are not honoured by the Tanzanian Government.
The Group may also be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions, and political and or economic instability in Tanzania or any of its surrounding countries.
Occupational health and life-threatening diseases Due to the nature of the Groups operations, a wide range of occupational health diseases, Executive General Manager, The Group has implemented a number of malaria and Continuing implementation High Please such as noise-induced hearing loss and lung diseases, pose a risk to the Groups workforce.
tuberculosis programmes and HIV AIDS awareness and of preventative occupational health see our In addition, tropical and infectious diseases, such as malaria and HIV AIDS, pose significant prevention programmes for its employees, their families & safety programmes.
Sustainability health risks to the Groups employees, due to the epidemic proportions that such diseases and the local communities surrounding its operations.
Preparation of an Ebola Action Plan.
may have in areas at which the Groups operations are located.
Further, there is a risk that the provides occupational health services to its employees at its Ebola epidemic may expand and impact Group operations.
The potential liabilities related to mine clinics and it continues to improve preventative hygiene Ongoing community health such diseases and the impact that these diseases may have on the Groups workforce may initiatives.
Health and safety and risk management systems programmes for diseases have an adverse effect upon the Groups operations and financial condition.
are in place onsite at all of Acacias operations.
82 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Key Increase Decrease No change New New for 2014 Potential Change Further Risk Key management responsibility Mitigation comment Progress made in 2014 impact from 2013 information Strategic Risks Single country risk All of Acacias revenue is derived from production at its three operations in Chief Financial Officer Acacia assesses a wide range of potential growth opportunities Continuing evaluation High Please Tanzania.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 83 GOVERNANCE PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Potential Change Further Risk Key management responsibility Mitigation comment Progress made in 2014 impact from 2013 information Operational Risks Security, trespass and vandalism Acacia faces certain risks in dealing with fraud and corruption and wider security-related Executive General Manager, Organisational Acacias security management system provides for a Review of Acacias security model High Please matters relating to trespass, vandalism, illegal mining and incursions and small-scale Effectiveness General Counsel.
number of measures that protect employees, assets and and strategy.
see our mining in proximity to its operations and on specific areas covered by the Groups exploration operations.
Measures include the ongoing development Sustainability Ongoing compliance programmes and mining licences, all of which may have an adverse effect upon Group operations and of security personnel and the implementation and, where review.
and training focused on Acacia Code financialcondition.
appropriate, upgrading of security infrastructure, such as of Conduct and Anti-Fraud and perimeter fencing, surveillance equipment and security Anti-Corruption Policies.
Where appropriate, Acacia also works in collaboration with local law enforcement to address Continuing assessment and security-related threats and concerns.
enhancements to security and safety controls.
Safety risks relating to mining operations Mining and in particular underground mining is subject to a number of hazards and risks Executive General Manager, Planning and Acacia uses a wide range of safety management systems Commencement of enhanced safety High Please see in the workplace, such as fall of ground relating to underlying geotechnical risks, potential Business Improvement Executive General in order to safeguard safety in the work place and provides training initiatives, including the the Strategic fires and mobile equipment incidents.
Despite mitigating measures implemented, such Manager, Organisational Effectiveness.
continuous training and supervision on safety management WeCare programme.
report and our incidents may occur, which in turn may have adverse effects on safety in the work place.
in order to promote the use of safe operating practices.
Operating and Enhanced safety management systems Sustainability for the use of mobile equipment and reviews.
Continuing safety audits and inspections.
Implementation of enhanced operational systems The achievement of Acacias production and cost targets is dependent on the use of Executive General Manager, Planning As part of ongoing business improvement initiatives, Enhancements made to mining High Please see optimised operational systems that allow for increased productivity at lower cost levels.
Acacia is implementing various enhancements to planning planning reviews.
the Strategic This includes the use of appropriate mine planning techniques with integrated financial and operating controls, procedures and frameworks in order report and Ongoing development of integrated modelling.
The use of inefficient or redundant systems could undermine Acacias ability to align operating systems and techniques with production our Operating mine planning system.
to achieve future production and cost control objectives.
Improvements made to change management processes.
Continuing system audits to assess effectiveness.
Equipment effectiveness Acacias mining, processing, development and exploration activities depend on the continuing Executive General Manager, Planning Management assesses the critical components of Acacias Introduced enhancements to High Please see availability and reliability of operational infrastructure and operating equipment.
operational equipment on a continuous basis.
In addition, maintenance and planning practices.
the Strategic or inefficiencies in the use of operating equipment, for example through equipment failure or management continues to review opportunities to enhance report and Continuing review of equipment use disruption or through poor utilisation or maintenance practices, can undermine equipment maintenance systems and equipment utilisation practices our Operating requirements and equipment utilisation levels and thereby negatively impact productivity levels.
in order to enhance equipment productivity levels.
Environmental hazards and rehabilitation Acacias operations are subject to environmental hazards as a result of the processes and Chief Executive Officer Executive General Acacia uses a number of environmental management systems Enhancing Acacias High Please chemicals used in its extraction and production methods.
Acacia may be liable for losses and Manager, Organisational Effectiveness.
and controls across its business and operations to provide environmental strategy.
see our costs associated with environmental hazards at its operations, have its licences and permits for appropriate environmental practices, including the Sustainability Gaining re-approval of mine withdrawn or suspended as a result of such hazards, or may be forced to undertake extensive adoption of specific environmental management plans for review.
clean-up and remediation action in respect of environmental hazards and incidents relating to each of our operations and the use of environmental and its operations, should they occur.
social impact assessments for potential projects.
Acacia also monitors mining and operational activities against key international standards, such as the International Cyanide Management Code, and assesses remediation and rehabilitation costs on an annual basis.
84 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Key Increase Decrease No change New New for 2014 Potential Change Further Risk Key management responsibility Mitigation comment Progress made in 2014 impact from 2013 information Operational Risks Security, trespass and vandalism Acacia faces certain risks in dealing with fraud and corruption and wider security-related Executive General Manager, Organisational Acacias security management system provides for a Review of Acacias security model High Please matters relating to trespass, vandalism, illegal mining and incursions and small-scale Effectiveness General Counsel.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 85
