Strategic report Our markets Scale and complexity Owner Operators Market drivers Customer types and routes to market EPCs AVEVAs Enterprise Solutions help our A key driver of the Oil & Gas market is the customers to effectively manage their increasing complexity of the engineering AVEVAs products are most applicable in industries where scale and complexity are business and access timely and accurate challenges involved in extracting the project and asset information.
Our resources from remote and hostile greatest, and as a result many of the worlds largest Engineering, Procurement & technology and expertise thus helps to environments, as well as an ever-tighter bring tremendous value to these customers regulatory and safety regime.
Construction companies are our customers.
Our 3D design technology enables EPCs to through the efficient support of operational achieve many of the advanced engineering processes and execution of in-plant Power is experiencing long-term secular developments necessary to meet the engineering projects.
In recent years we growth in demand driven by increasing global energy and infrastructure demands have been successful in extending our consumption, with the worlds energy of a rapidly growing population.
involvement with this operational phase in consumption expected to expand by 40% the life cycle of our customers assets.
Drivers include the need to build This can be seen in our customers end new power infrastructure in emerging markets: Oil & Gas reserves are increasingly Partners markets, as well maintain and extend the remote and difficult to extract, and here As AVEVA increases its involvement in the lifespan of ageing infrastructure in offshore projects have proven to be a key operational phase of these complex assets, developed markets.
AVEVAs tools are we are increasingly working with expert also used to design power plants and we partners who can help us to identify Marine is traditionally a cyclical industry, are a preferred supplier to the worlds opportunities, act as a channel into new and has been experiencing a prolonged nuclear industry, where we expect markets, and implement our Enterprise period of downturn in demand for significant investment in complex Solutions products across large-scale conventional shipbuilding.
Many of our infrastructure over the long term.
This is a key part of our shipyard customers in South Korea have majority of the worlds major shipyards strategy to accelerate the adoption of successfully retuned their capacity towards alsouse AVEVA technology for both ourtechnology by Owner Operators.
offshore projects, building FPSO, LNG and conventional shipbuilding and, increasingly, Wehave seen our partner strategy begin FLNG platforms for Oil & Gas customers.
tobear fruit, particularly in the Nuclear and Oil & Gas markets.
Our EPC customers are involved in delivering plants for the worlds process Key markets industries.
Given the nature and scale of Oil & Gas, Marine, Power, Other these assets, a key feature of our industry isthat design, fabrication and construction Revenue split occur concurrently.
This presents a number AVEVA has a strong association with the of challenges for our customers in terms of global Oil & Gas industry, which currently both design and delivery, and the focus of accounts for around 4550% of the usage of AVEVAs technology is to enable error-free our software by our customers.
The Power design and apply the principles of lean sector currently represents around 1015%, construction to the industries we serve and Marine around 2025% of our through an Integrated Engineering & Design customers usage of our software products.
The solutions we deliver to our EPC customers enable them to compress We estimate that around 1520% of the schedules, eliminate expensive rework usage of our products is derived from a anddrive efficiency across major number of other industries, including engineering projects and through-life Chemicals, Metals & Mining Processing, in-plant engineering.
Pulp & Paper, and other specialist manufacturing sectors.
16 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Geographic markets Americas Europe, Middle East Asia Pacic and Africa 112.0m 86.9m 38.4m KEY Annual fees Rental fees Initial fees Training and services 2013 : 39.3m 2% 2013 : 107.6m 4% 2013 : 73.3m 19% North America mid-teens growth, Robust growth in Central and Strong performance in Latin America broadly at Western EMEA, soft demand South Korea effect of currency in Russia and Middle East Strong growth in Asia Pacific EMEA and Americas AVEVA continues We saw an excellent performance from our EMEA was affected by more difficult Asia Pacific operations during 2013 14, with economic conditions compared to previous to benefit from revenue up 19% over the prior year to 86.9 years, particularly in Russia and the Middle million 2013 73.3 million.
North East Asia East, as well as the impact of the reduction was a particular area of strength as our South inrevenue in Enterprise Solutions.
Our core the breadth of its Korean shipyard customers benefited from markets remained resilient, with further an increase in prime contracting activities growth in sales of our design tools to our international related to large Oil & Gas projects.
This was global EPC customers.
In Brazil there balanced by weaker economic conditions remains a sizable opportunity, but delays operations.
contributing to softer growth in China.
inthe new project investment has impacted Ourinvestment in India has continued, regional performance.
This was balanced dramatically increasing the number of byour North American operations which employees in our Hyderabad offices.
delivered robust growth during the year, reflecting our renewed focus and investment in developing our presence in the region.
17 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
