Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties Our multi-layered risk management framework is aimedat effectively mitigating various risks which ourbusinesses are exposed to in the course of their operations as well as in their strategic actions.
Vedanta Board Level Sustainability Our businesses are exposed to variety of These meetings are chaired by business CEOs Committee which looks at sustainability risks which are inherent to an international and attended by CXOs, senior management related risks.
This committee is headed mining and resources organisation.
Risk officers by a Non-Executive Director and has Resource companies carry with it a have been formally nominated at all operating businesses as well as Group level Group CEO and other business leaders significant element of constantly evolving whose role is to create awareness on risks as its members.
risks, making it essential for them to at senior management level and to develop develop necessary systems to manage and nurture a risk management culture As stated above, every business division the risks, while simultaneously balancing within the businesses.
Risk mitigation plans in the Group has developed its own risk the relative risk reward equations form an integral part of KRA KPI process matrix of Top 20 risks which gets reviewed demanded by its stakeholders.
In addition, of process owners.
Structured discussion at Business Management Committee the nature of our business operations on risk management also happens at level.
In addition, business divisions have is long term, resulting in several of the SBU levels on their respective risk matrix also developed their own risk registers identified risks being enduring in nature.
Governance of risk comprising of 75100 risks or at times management framework in the businesses even more depending on size of operations Our risk management framework is is anchored with their leadership team.
and number of SBUs locations.
These designed to be a simple, consistent and risks get reviewed in SBU level meetings.
clear for managing and reporting risks from As mentioned in the last years report, formal the Groups businesses to the Board.
Risk discussion on risk management happens Our principal risks, which have been assessed management is embedded in our critical at Group level once in a quarter.
The Group according to impact and likelihood, are business activities, functions and processes.
level Risk Management Committee meeting described on the following pages.
The Materiality and tolerance for risk are key is attended by Group senior management, order in which these risks appear does not considerations in our decision-making.
entity CXOs, risk officers and other members.
necessarily reflect the likelihood of their occurrence or the relative magnitude of Our management systems, organisational The Board of Directors has the ultimate their impact on our business.
While our risk structures, processes, standards, code responsibility for management of risks management framework is designed to of conduct together form the system and for ensuring the effectiveness of help the organisation meet its objectives, of internal control that govern how internal control systems.
The Audit there can be no guarantee that our risk we conduct the Groups business and Committee aids the Board in this process management activities will mitigate or manage the associated risks.
by identification and assessment of any prevent these or other risks from occurring.
changes in risk exposure, review of risk We have a multi-layered risk management control measures and by approval of framework aimed at effectively mitigating remedial actions, where appropriate.
the various risks which our businesses are exposed to in the course of their operations The Audit Committee is in turn supported as well as in their strategic actions.
We by the Group Level Risk Management identify risk at the individual business level Our risk management Committee GRMC, which helps the Audit for existing operations as well as for ongoing Committee in evaluating the design and projects through a consistently applied framework is designed to be operating effectiveness of the risk mitigation methodology, using the Turnbull matrix.
a simple, consistent and programme and the control systems.
Formal discussion on risk management clear for managing and In addition to the above structure, happens in business level review meetings reporting risks from the other key risk governance and oversight at least once in a quarter.
The respective committees include the following: businesses review the risks, change in the Groups businesses to the Group Treasury Risk Management nature and extent of the major risks since Committee has an oversight on the the last assessment, control measures board.
This committee established for the risk and further action comprises of Group CFO, business CFOs plans.
The control measures stated and Treasury Heads at respective in the risk matrix are also periodically businesses.
reviewed by the business management Group Capex Sub-Committee which teams to verify their effectiveness.
evaluates the risks while reviewing any capital investment decisions as well as institutes a risk management framework in expansion projects.
32 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Risks & Impact Mitigation Plan Delay in commencement of production facilities in aluminium business Some of our projects have been completed pending commissioning We are in the process of securing key raw material linkages for our or nearing completion.
The timing, implementation and cost of these alumina aluminium business.
In order to meet our bauxite expansion projects are subject to a number of risks, including delay in requirements, continuous dialogue is happening with the State obtaining necessary approvals which may delay or prevent us from Government for allocation of new mining leases.
Sourcing of bauxite commencing commercial operations at some of these projects.
from mines in neighbouring states is also being pursued.
Various infrastructures related challenges have been are being addressed.
Requisite approvals for the commencement of our production facilities are being pursued.
A strong management team is in place to work towards sustainable low cost of production, operational excellence and securing key raw material linkages.
With Sesa Sterlite merger process completed, we have progressed one step further in this direction.
Further details in this connection are included in the Aluminium business section.
Extension of Production Sharing Contract of Cairn beyond 2020 or extension at less favourable terms Cairn India has 70% participating interest in Rajasthan Block.
The PSC has certain enabling provisions for extension of the terms.
During production sharing contract PSC of Rajasthan Block runs till 2020. the year, we continued to engage effectively with all Government Challenges in extension of production sharing contract of Cairn stakeholders for an informed policy discourse.
beyond 2020 or extension at less favourable terms may have implications.
FY201314 saw increased engagement between Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas and industry associations to improvise regulatory and operational environment.
Formal application for extension of the licence term as provided in the Production Sharing Contract has been submitted to the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas.
Reliability and predictability in operational performance Our operations are subject to conditions and events beyond our Asset utilisation and cost of production CoP continues to be a control that could, among other matters, increase our mining, priority area.
We carry out periodic benchmarking of cost of transportation or production costs, disrupt or halt operations at our production and other operational efficiencies with the objective of mines, smelters and power plants and production facilities for varying being in the top decile in all the businesses on CoP.
A structured asset lengths of time or even permanently.
These conditions and events optimisation programme has been launched in the Group with help of reputed consulting firms to improve overall awareness and include disruptions in mining and production due to equipment operational efficiencies.
failures, unexpected maintenance problems and other interruptions, non-availability of raw materials of appropriate quantity and quality The role of asset optimisation function in the businesses has been for our energy requirements, disruptions to or increased cost of enlarged and elevated in the organisation structure.
Cost reduction transport services or strikes and industrial actions or disputes.
projects with specific targets are taken up periodically along with leading international consultants.
Also challenges at KCM in terms of volume ramp up and cost can impact its profitability.
We continue to invest in new technology to improve CoP.
While some of these risks can be beyond our control, we have adequate and competent experience in these areas and have consistently demonstrated our ability to manage these problems proactively.
At KCM, an appropriate organisation is already in place and our focus is on stabilising production.
Cost reduction initiatives have been taken up at Nchanga.
Our priority today at KCM is cash conservation.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 33 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risks & Impact Mitigation Plan Challenges in resumption, continuation of Iron Ore business The Honourable Supreme Court The Court through its order dated 21 April 2014 has lifted the ban on mining in the State of Goa, subject to certain conditions.
The Court has imposed an interim restriction on the maximum annual excavation from the mining leases in the State of Goa of 20 million tonnes subject to determination of final capacity by Expert Committee appointed by the Supreme Court.
The Court has also decreed that all mining leases in the State of Goa, including those of Sesa Sterlite, have expired in 2007.
Consequently, no mining operations can be carried out until renewal execution of mining lease deeds by the State Government.
We are working towards securing the necessary permissions for commencement of operations.
Community relations The continued success of our existing operations and future projects Our business leadership teams have periodic engagements with the are in part dependent upon broad support and a healthy relationship local communities to establish relations based on trust and mutual with the respective local communities.
Failure to identify and manage benefit.
Our businesses seeks to identify and minimise any potentially local concerns and expectations can have a negative impact on negative operational impacts and risks through responsible behaviour relations with local communities and therefore affect the acting transparently and ethically, promoting dialogue and organisations reputation and social licence to operate and grow.
complying with commitments to stakeholders.
Our approach to community development is holistic, long-term, integrated and sustainable and is governed by two key considerations needs of the local people and the development plan in line with the UN Millennium Development Goals.
Our endeavour is to integrate our sustainability objectives into long-term planning.
The organisation endeavours to ensure transparent communication with local communities, including through the use of a grievance management process, local perception surveys, local media and community meetings.
We help communities identify their priorities through need assessment programmes and then work closely with them to design programmes that seek to make progress towards improvement in quality of life of the local communities.
Our community programmes reach extends to all our operations and are benefiting over 4.1 million people from over 2,200 villages.
Our community activity is delivered at local, regional and national level to ensure businesses are able to effectively maximise impact in facilitating socio-economic development.
Further details of the Groups CSR activities are included in the Sustainability section.
34 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Risks & Impact Mitigation Plan Health, safety and environment HSE The resources sector is subject to extensive health, safety, and Health, Safety and Environment HSE is a high priority area for the environmental laws, regulations and standards.
Compliance with international and local regulations and standards and stakeholder expectations could result in increased cost, standards, protecting our people, communities and the environment litigation or threaten the viability of operations in extreme cases.
from harm and our operations from business interruptions are our key focus areas.
Vedanta Board level Sustainability Committee is chaired by a Non-Executive Director and includes the CEO as its members meet periodically to discuss HSE performance.
We have appropriate policies and standards in place to mitigate and minimise any HSE related occurrences.
Structured monitoring and a review mechanism and system of positive compliance reporting is inplace.
The Company has recently implemented a fresh set of standards to align its sustainability framework in line with international practices.
A structured sustainability assurance program has been launched in the business divisions covering environment, health, safety, community relations and human rights aspects and to embed our commitment at the operational level.
A system of independent audits of HSE practices by leading international consultants is in place.
HSE experts are also inducted from reputed Indian and global organisations to bring in best-in-class practices.
The businesses have an appropriate policy in place for occupational health related matters supported by structured processes, controls and technology.
Our operations ensure the issue of operational health and consequential potential risk obligations are carefully handled.
Depending on the nature of the exposure and surrounding risk, our operations have different levels of processes, controls and monitoring mechanisms.
There is a strong focus on safety during project planning execution with adequate thrust on contract workmen safety.
Further details of our HSE related activities are included in the Sustainability section.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 35 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risks & Impact Mitigation Plan Transitioning of zinc and lead mining operations from open pit to underground mining Our zinc and lead mining operations in India are transitioning from A strong separate empowered organisation is working towards an open pit mining operation to underground mining operation.
ensuring a smooth transition from open pit to underground mining.
Difficulties in managing this transition may result in challenges We are working with internationally renowned engineering and in achieving stated business milestones.
technology partners on this project.
Technical audits are being carried out by independent agencies.
Reputed contractors have been engaged to ensure completion of the project on indicated time lines.
These mines will be developed using best in class technology and equipment and ensuring the highest level of productivity and safety.
We are inducting employees contractors in our system having underground mining expertise.
We are also sending our employees to overseas underground mines for skill development.
Stage gate process is being implemented to review risk from time to time and remedy at multiple stages on the way.
Progress reports projects are regularly reviewed, including assessments of the progress against the key project milestones, as well as actual performance against budget.
Robust quality control procedures have also been implemented to check safety and quality of services design actual physical work.
Political, legal and regulatory risk We have operations in many countries around the globe, which have The Company and its business divisions monitor regulatory and varying degrees of political and commercial stability.
political developments on a continuous basis.
Our focus has been to communicate our responsible mining credentials through The political, legal and regulatory regimes in the countries we operate representations to government and industry associations.
in may result in higher operating costs, restrictions such as the imposition or increase in royalties or taxation rates, export duty, We continue to demonstrate the Groups commitment to impact on mining rights ban and change in legislation pertaining to sustainability by proactive environmental, safety and CSR practices.
We continue to actively engage with local community media NGOs on these matters.
We may also be affected by the political acts of governments including resource nationalisation and legal cases in these countries SOX and SEC related compliance arrangements are in place.
We have over which we have no control.
an online portal for compliance monitoring.
Appropriate escalation and review mechanisms are in place.
Competent in-house legal organisation exists at all the businesses.
A framework for monitoring against Anti Bribery & Corruption guidelines has also been implemented.
36 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Risks & Impact Mitigation Plan Fluctuation in commodity prices Commodity prices and demand are volatile and strongly influenced The diversified nature of the commodities including sizeable exposure by global economic conditions.
Volatility in commodity prices and to oil provides some protection from the fluctuation in commodity demand may adversely affect our earnings, cash flow and reserves.
The Groups policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices and not to enter into price hedging arrangements other than for businesses which are on a tolling basis where back to back hedging is used to mitigate pricing risks.
In exceptional circumstances we may enter into strategic hedging but only with prior approval of the Executive Committee.
The businesses have developed robust controls around this area.
The Treasury Risk Management Committee reviews the commodity related risks and suggests a necessary course of action as may be needed by business divisions.
Currency exchange rate fluctuations Our assets, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a variety of Philosophy of the organisation is not to speculate in forex.
As in currencies due to the diversity of the countries in which we operate.
commodities, we have developed robust controls in forex Fluctuations in exchange rates of those currencies may have an management as well to hedge currency risk on a back to back basis.
The Treasury Risk Management Committee reviews our forex related Although the majority of the Groups revenue is tied to commodity matters periodically and suggests a necessary course of action as prices that are typically priced by reference to the US dollar, a may be needed by businesses, from time to time, within the overall significant part of its expenses are incurred and paid in local currency.
frame work of our forex policy.
Moreover Group borrowings are significantly denominated in US dollars while a large percentage of cash and liquid investments are We seek to mitigate the impact of short-term movements in currency held in other currencies, mainly in the Indian rupee.
Any material on the businesses by hedging short-term exposures progressively fluctuations of these currencies against the US dollar could result in based on their maturity.
However, large or prolonged movements in lower profitability or in higher cash outflows towards debt obligations.
exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the Groups businesses, operating results, financial condition and or prospects.
Discovery risk The increased production rates from our growth oriented operations, As per our strategic priority to add to our reserves and resources by places demand on exploration and prospecting initiatives to replace extending resources at a faster rate than we deplete them through reserve and resources at a pace faster than depletion.
A failure in our continuous focus on drilling and exploration programmes.
ability to discover new reserves, enhance existing reserves or develop new operations in sufficient quantities to maintain or grow the current In order to achieve this we have developed an appropriate level of our reserves could negatively affect our prospects.
There are organisation and allocated adequate financial resources for numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore and oil & gas exploration.
International technical experts agencies are working reserves, and geological, technical and economic assumptions that closely with our exploration team.
are valid at the time of estimation.
These may change significantly when new information becomes available.
We also have a system of periodic independent technical audits by leading international firms.
We also continue to work towards long-term supply contracts with mines.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 37 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risks & Impact Mitigation Plan Breaches in Information IT security Like many other global organisations, our reliance on computers and Appropriate organisation in place at respective businesses for network technology is increasing.
These systems could be subject to information IT security.
IT security policies and procedures are security breaches resulting in theft, disclosure or corruption of key defined at individual businesses.
Security breaches could also result in misappropriation of funds or disruptions to our business operations.
We seek to manage the cyber security risk through standards, Acyber security breach could have an impact on business operations.
ongoing monitoring of threats and awareness initiatives throughout the organisation.
An IT system is in place to monitor logical access controls.
Talent skill shortage risk The Companys efforts to continue its growth and efficient operations We continue to invest in initiatives which seek to widen our talent will place significant demand on its management resources.
We have a talent management system in place to identify and highly skilled workforce and experienced management team is critical develop internal candidates for critical management positions, as well to maintaining its current operations, implementing its development as processes to identify suitable external candidates, wherever projects and achieving longer-term growth.
Any significant loss or appropriate.
diminution in the collective pool of Vedantas executive management or other key team members could have a material effect on its Our performance management system is designed to provide reward businesses, operating results and future prospects.
and remuneration structures and personal development opportunities appropriate to attract and retain key employees.
A structured programme is in place to map critical positions and ensure that all such positions are filled with competent resources.
Our progressive HR policies along with strong HR leadership have ensured that career progression, job rotation and job enrichment continue be focus areas for our businesses.
Liquidity risk The Group may not be able to meet its payment obligations when The Group generates sufficient cash flows from its current operations due or unable to borrow funds in the market at an acceptable price to which, together with the available cash and cash equivalents and fund actual or proposed commitments.
A sustained adverse economic liquid financial asset investments, provide liquidity both in the short downturn and or suspension of its operation in any business, effecting term as well as in the long term.
Anticipated future cash flows and revenue and free cash flow generation, may cause some stress on the undrawn committed facilities of US$2,370.6 million, together with Companys financing and covenant compliance and its ability to raise cash and liquid investments of US$8,937.9 million as at 31 March financing at competitive terms.
Any constraints on upstreaming of 2014, are expected to be sufficient to meet the ongoing capital funds from the subsidiaries to the Group may affect the liquidity investment program and liquidity requirement of the Group in the position at the Group level.
The Group has a strong Balance Sheet that gives sufficient headroom to raise further debt should the need arise.
The Groups current ratings from Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch are BB, Ba1 and BB respectively.
These ratings support the necessary financial leverage and access to debt or equity markets at competitive terms, taking into consideration current market conditions.
The Group generally maintains a healthy gearing ratio and retains flexibility in the financing structure to alter the ratio when the need arises.
As a matter of course, funding for upcoming refinancing is secured well ahead of its maturity date.
38 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014
