18 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Principal risks The Groups strategic objectives can only be achieved if certain risks are taken and managed effectively.
We have listed below the most significant risks that may affect our business, although there are other risks that may occur and impact the Groups performance.
Risk area and description Mitigation Safety, health and environment The Groups success is dependent on us conducting We employ a dedicated Safety, Health and Environment SHE department to assist our business safely.
Given the nature of our various line management and to provide expert guidance.
manufacturing facilities, a significant operational disruption could adversely affect our ability to make We have policies and procedures to: efficiently, safely and compliantly manage all and supply products.
our operations: protect the safety and health of our employees, contractors and visitors: and both manage our environmental responsibly and continually improve The environment in which Victrex operates is subject our resource efficiency.
to numerous legislative and regulatory requirements, where failure to comply could adversely impact As our manufacturing facilities are regulated, we are subject to close regulatory our employees, our manufacturing capability, the review, for example by the Environmental Agency under the Environmental environment or the attractiveness of our business Permitting Regulations.
Further detail is contained in the Sustainability Report on pages 20 to 31.
Technological change Innovation and product leadership are key to We are future thinkers, continually assessing and identifying market needs and thesuccess of our business.
We provide innovative capturing value as product leaders.
We serve a diverse range of markets and work solutions to help our customers overcome their directly with our customers, end users, OEMs and industry leading decision makers technological challenges.
to develop a pipeline of new applications.
Innovation failings could result in a lack of competitive With long-term megatrends in our favour, we have a diverse mix of new growth advantage and relevant new products, erosion of opportunities.
Further information can be found on page 2. margin and failure to achieve sustainable earnings.
We actively invest to advance our technology skills and knowledge, in commercial and technical specialists and global technical centres, to underpin our growth and deliver sustainable earnings growth for our shareholders.
Recruitment and retention of the right people Our success depends on recruiting and retaining the We have strategies in place collectively our People Strategy to attract and retain right people in all areas of our business.
Victrex relies the best talent, provide opportunities for personal development, encourage diversity heavily on the skills, experience and competence of our and recognise and reward excellence.
The People Strategy is regularly discussed at people to drive business in existing and new markets, Board, Executive Leadership Team and functional level.
Our employees have clear aswell as to operate our manufacturing assets safely objectives and development plans, aligned to our strategy, and participate in formal and with a strong regard to the environment.
We have succession plans in place for key roles and develop our future leaders so that we are able to promote internally as well as bringing in new talent from the outside.
We operate an equal opportunities policy and regard this as a commitment to make both full use of the talents and resources of all our employees.
Foreign currency risk The Group exports the majority of its product out of the The Group adopts a hedging policy to mitigate short-term currency risk.
This UK, but has a significant Sterling cost base.
Fluctuations policy is managed by the Currency Committee and is detailed in the Corporate in exchange rates between Sterling and US Dollar, Euro Governance Report on pages 35 to 43. and Yen could cause profit and balance sheet volatility.
com Strategic report Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 19 Risk area and description Mitigation Business continuity and supply chain It is essential to ensure continuity of supply and service It is our policy to keep capacity well ahead of demand by continual investment in to our customers and that we can operate even if our supply chain so that our customers can be confident that we can meet their asignificant incident did occur.
requirements today and in the future.
The current construction of our third PEEK plant, which is expected to be operational in 2015, will increase capacity by 2,900 Failure to maintain a secure supply of high quality products tonnes to in excess of 7,000 tonnes.
Our two existing PEEK plants are able to to our customers by, for example, an unexpected upsurge operate independently, thereby reducing the impact of any operational disruption in demand or delays in the implementation of major on our ability to continue manufacturing products.
capital expenditure programmes, could lead a capacity shortage and loss of earnings.
Stocks of finished goods, which are held in a number of locations worldwide, should enable us to maintain supplies to our customers during any short-term disruption.
Additionally, we work with our key suppliers to maintain appropriate stocks of key raw materials.
We have robust and comprehensive business continuity plans in place that are regularly reviewed to ensure their continued effectiveness.
Network and IT systems and security A significant failure or interruption in our IT networks We continue to review and invest where appropriate in the development and and systems could have a detrimental impact on our maintenance of our IT infrastructure, systems and processes.
Data security is very important to us, as failure to appropriately process, store or share information We operate a firewall, antivirus software and monitor any attempted breaches and take could result in the loss of data, whether it be our data, action where necessary to ensure our infrastructure remains robust and appropriate.
We or that of our employees or customers.
have in place recovery plans and business continuity plans, which are regularly reviewed and tested.
Product liability We sell into highly demanding end use applications Victrex PEEK polymer is manufactured within a quality management system approved and regulated markets.
Any failure to supply our to ISO 9001:2008.
Invibio PEEK-OPTIMA polymer is additionally manufactured within products in accordance with the specification could the requirements of ISO 13485:2003, a system of good manufacturing practice often lead to loss of business and a potential product used by the pharmaceutical industry and by medical device manufacturers.
also attained ISO 17025:2005 General Requirements for Competence of Testing and Calibration Laboratories certification.
There is a quality management process in place and the Group maintains appropriate levels of product liability insurance.
Changing global economic environment Exposure to changes and events outside the Groups The diverse nature of the Groups markets, customers and the territories in which control, such as external global economic conditions, it operates, together with appropriate contingency planning, helps to mitigate the markets or territories, as well as natural disasters, impact on the business of such changes and events.
may impact the Groups performance and its ability toachieve its strategic objectives.
