Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 66 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 67 Resolutions In addition, the Board reviews any reports from the external auditor presented to the Audit and Risk Committee and management in relation a Voting on all resolutions at the AGM is on a poll.
The proxy votes to internal financial controls.
cast, including details of votes withheld, are disclosed to those in attendance at the meeting and the results are published on our a evaluating the risks we face in achieving our objectives: website and announced via the Regulatory News Service.
a determining the risks that are considered acceptable to bear: A summary of our share and control structures is set out in Shareholder a assessing the likelihood of the risks concerned materialising: information on pages 182 to 189. a identifying our ability to reduce the incidence and impact on the business of risks that do materialise: and How do we deal with internal control and risk management?
a ensuring that the costs of operating particular controls are proportionate to the benefit.
The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control.
A sound system of internal control is designed to manage rather than Risk management eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can An overview of the Groups framework for identifying and managing risk, only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material both at an operational and strategic level, is set out on pages 46 and 47. misstatement or loss.
Review of effectiveness The Board has established procedures that implement in full the The Board and the Audit and Risk Committee have reviewed the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors effectiveness of the internal control system including financial, on the Combined Code for the year under review and to the date of this operational and compliance controls, and risk management annual report.
These procedures, which are subject to regular review, in accordance with the Code for the period from 1 April 2013 provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing to 20 May 2014 the date of this annual report.
No significant failings the significant risks we face.
See page 89 for managements report or weaknesses were identified during this review.
However, had there on internal control over financial reporting.
been any such failings or weaknesses, the Board confirms that Monitoring and review activities necessary actions would have been taken to remedy them.
There are clear processes for monitoring the system of internal control The directors, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer have and reporting any significant control failings or weaknesses together evaluated the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures with details of corrective action.
These include: and, based on that evaluation, have concluded that the disclosure a the local Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer of each operating controls and procedures were effective at the end of the period covered business formally certifying the operation of their control systems by this report.
each year and highlighting any weaknesses.
These results are reviewed by regional management, the Audit and Risk Committee, What is our approach to other governance matters?
and the Board: Group policy compliance a local Chief Executives certifying compliance with high risk policies Each Group policy is owned by a member of the Executive Committee in their companies, with Group Compliance reviewing evidence so that there is clear accountability and authority for ensuring the of compliance: associated business risk is adequately managed.
Regional chief executives and the senior leadership team member responsible for each a the Groups Disclosure Committee reviewing the appropriateness Group function have primary accountability for ensuring compliance of disclosures and providing an annual report to the Groups Chief with all Group policies by all our markets and entities.
Our Group Executive and the Chief Financial Officer on the effectiveness of the Compliance team and policy champions support the policy owners and Groups disclosure controls and procedures: local markets in implementing policies and monitoring compliance.
a maintaining disclosure controls and procedures, as such term Code of Conduct is defined in Rule 13a-15 e of the Exchange Act, that are designed All of the key Group policies have been consolidated into the Vodafone to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports that Code of Conduct.
This is a central ethical and policy document we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, applicable to all employees and those who work for or on behalf summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the of Vodafone.
It sets out the standards of behaviour expected in relation SECs rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated to areas such as insider dealing, bribery and raising concerns through and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive the whistle-blowing process known internally as Speak Up.
and Chief Financial Officer as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure: and a the Group Internal Audit department periodically examining business processes on a risk basis throughout the Group and reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee.
