WH Smith PLC 18 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties The Board considers the risks described below to represent the Groups principal risks and uncertainties.
These are presented together with the mitigating actions that are taken in order to ensure that the risks are appropriately monitored and controlled.
WHSmiths management team recognise that the profile of risks constantly changes and additional risks not presently known, or that may be currently deemed immaterial, may also impact the Groups business objectives and performance.
Following careful consideration, the Board decided that the Pensions Risk heading that was previously included in the summary of Principal Risks and Uncertainties should be removed.
This reflects the significant progress made in managing this risk, through a combination of the Liability Driven Investment structure, the performance of the schemes assets and the Companys contributions to the scheme, as evidenced from the latest Actuarial Revaluation.
Further information regarding the current status of the Groups Pension Scheme can be found in Note 4 to the Financial statements on page 64.
Risk description Mitigation Economic, political, competitive and market risks The Group operates in highly competitive markets and our failure The Groups performance is dependent upon effectively predicting to compete effectively with travel, convenience and other retailers and quickly responding to changing consumer demands.
The may affect revenues obtained through our stores.
Failure to keep Group conducts customer research to understand current abreast of market developments, including the use of new demands and preferences in order to help translate market technology, could threaten our competitive position.
In each trends into saleable merchandise.
The Group is a member of key country in which the Group operates, the Group may also be industry bodies which help maintain awareness of developments impacted by regulatory and tax changes, increasing scrutiny by in standards and legislation.
The Group also utilises external competition authorities, political developments, the economic consultants to conduct reputational due diligence on potential new climate and the general condition of retail and travel markets.
business partners and to monitor developments that may impact Factors such as household disposable income, seasonality of our operations in overseas territories.
sales, changing demographics and customer shopping patterns, and raw material costs could impact profit performance.
Reliance on the WHSmith brand The WHSmith brand is an important asset.
Failure to protect it The Group regularly monitors brand standards and key service from an event that materially damages its reputation could have and compliance measures to ensure that brand and operating an adverse effect on revenues.
standards are maintained in the UK and internationally.
Key suppliers and supply chain management The Group has agreements with key suppliers in the UK, Europe The Group conducts risk assessments of all its key suppliers to and the Far East.
The interruption or loss of supply of core identify alternatives and develop contingency plans in the event category products from these suppliers to our stores may affect that any of these key suppliers fail.
All suppliers have to comply our ability to trade.
Quality of supply issues may also impact the with the conditions laid out in our Supplier Code of Conduct which Groups reputation and impact our ability to trade.
covers areas such as production methods, employee working conditions and quality control.
The Group has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third parties in support of its business activities.
None of these arrangements are individually considered to be essential to the business of the Group.
Store portfolio The quality and location of the Groups store portfolio are key The Group undertakes research of key markets and contributors to the Groups strategy.
Retailing from a portfolio of demographics to ensure that we continue to occupy prime good quality real estate in prime retail areas and at commercially locations and identify appropriate locations to acquire new space.
reasonable rates remains critical to the performance of the We maintain regular dialogue and good relationships with all our Group.
All of High Streets stores are held under operating key landlords.
leases, and consequently the Group is exposed to the extent that any store becomes unviable as a result of rental costs.
Most Travel stores are held under concession agreements on average for five to ten years, although there is no guarantee that concessions will be renewed or that Travel will be able to bid successfully for new contracts.
The majority of Travels airport and railway concession agreements contain change of control clauses, giving various rights to the grantor of the concession, such as termination of the contract, in the event of a successful takeover bid for the Group.
Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 19 Risk description Mitigation Business interruption An act of terrorism or war, or an outbreak of a pandemic disease, The Group has a framework of IT security controls, operational could reduce the number of customers visiting WHSmith outlets, procedures and business continuity plans that are regularly causing a decline in revenue and profit.
In the past, our Travel reviewed, updated and tested.
The Groups IT systems receive business has been particularly impacted by geopolitical events ongoing investment to ensure that they are able to respond to the such as major terrorist attacks, which have led to reductions needs of the business.
Back-up facilities and contingency plans incustomer traffic.
Closure of travel routes both planned and are in place and are tested regularly to ensure that business unplanned, such as the disruption caused by natural disasters interruptions are minimised and that data is protected from orweather-related events, may also have a material effect on corruption or unauthorised use.
The Group operates from three distribution centres and the closure of any one of them may cause disruption to the business.
In common with most retail businesses, the Group also relies on a number of important IT systems, where any system performance problems, cyber risks or other breaches in data security could affect our ability to trade.
Reliance on key personnel The performance of the Group depends on its ability to continue The Remuneration Committee monitors the levels and structure to attract, motivate and retain key head office and store staff.
The of remuneration for directors and senior management and seeks retail sector is very competitive and the Groups personnel are to ensure that they are designed to attract, retain and motivate the frequently targeted by other companies for recruitment.
key personnel to run the Group successfully.
Treasury, financial and credit risk management The Groups exposure to and management of capital, liquidity, The Groups Treasury function seeks to reduce exposures to credit, interest rate and foreign currency risk are analysed interest rate, foreign exchange and other financial risks, to ensure further in Note 22 of the accounts.
The Group also has credit risk sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to in relation to its trade, other receivables and sale or return invest cash assets safely and profitably.
The Group does not contracts with suppliers.
engage in speculative trading in financial instruments and transacts only in relation to underlying business requirements.
The value of any deposit that can be placed with any approved counterparty is based on short-term and long-term credit ratings.
The Groups Treasury policies and procedures are periodically reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee and are subject to Group Internal Audit review.
The Group has a committed facility with a number of financial institutions which is available to be drawn for general corporate purposes including working capital.
This facility matures in June 2019.
