44 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 managing our risks AN AcTIVE APPROAch assessing risk and putting steps in place to respond appropriately is essential Both to protect our group and to make correct Business decisions affecting our future.
over recent years, We have successfully dealt With significant regulatory, fiscal and operational David Lowden change Whilst sustaining groWth and expanding Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Management Committee internationally.
We understand the need to Balance the amount of risk We take With the opportunities the group identifies.
our Board also determines a loWer risk appetite in key areas such asregulatory compliance and customer service.
Prioritising risks Our approach At the individual business level, risk assessments identify risks outside of defined We have set out our key risks as assessed The Board is responsible for the process to appetites and local management are tasked by the Executive Management team and determine and execute appropriate responses with developing action plans to mitigate approved by the Board.
We also provide to the potentially significant risks to be the impact of them with clear allocation of a view on the likelihood of these risks addressed in pursuit of the Groups strategic responsibilities.
Progress is monitored at crystallising in the coming year and the objectives.
These actions are taken in the the executive level and reported upon to potential impacts, along with an indicator of context of a defined risk appetite which has the Boards Audit and Risk Management the change in risk compared to the prior year clear standards and definitions, and which Committee.
An annual assessment is assessment.
The narrative outlines how the is reviewed annually by the Board.
This is also conducted and reported to the Audit Group is placed to deal with risks as they supported by a structured risk management and Risk Management Committee as to impact the business.
the effectiveness of the risk management The Board routinely monitors risks that could processes for the year.
High Stable materially and adversely affect William Hills Below is a summary of the Boards operational results, strategic and financial assessment and response to the principal Medium Increasing goals, and is supported by executive risks facing William Hill.
A more extensive management and the Risk and Audit function.
list of risks is provided in the investor Low Decreasing Risks are identified and monitored through relations section of our corporate website a series of risk workshops and risk registers, at www.
An explanation both at the Group level and within the of how the Group manages its various individual businesses.
financial risks is provided in note 21 to the financial statements.
Strategic report 45 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk High High Stable cHange in regulaTorY reQuiremenTs Whats the issue?
We remain wholly confident that our fund, the recently launched Senet Group, investment in our compliance and which aims to promote responsible gambling The Groups growing international reach, assurance functions allows us to identify, standards and to hold its members to alongside developments in the UK regulatory understand and address changing account.
Led by an independent Standards landscape, drives continually evolving regulatory requirements in an efficient and Commissioner, Senets independence regulatory challenges for the Group.
and objectivity is guaranteed by its During the period the Group has successfully Board structure.
adapted to changing regulatory requirements We actively engage with both the UK We maintain dialogue with regulators and in key territories and a change in the Government and opposition parties to regulatory regime for our Online business.
discuss the measures by which we fulfil our other key stakeholders in our licensed territories internationally, continually monitor obligations under the licensing objectives Whilst regulatory change may lead to the in the UK, in terms of protecting the the changing legal landscape and adapt opening up of key opportunities, it also our strategy on a country-by-country basis vulnerable particularly by setting standards has the potential to negatively impact our in promoting responsible gambling, keeping to changes in regulation.
A high proportion business, through restricting betting activities crime out of our business and behaving of Onlines revenues are derived from or driving increased compliance costs.
in a fair and open manner towards our licensed territories, which mitigates risks customers.
We have also engaged with the associated with operating on a non-locally What are we doing to address EU and Treasury in respect to the draft EU licensed basis.
Senior management are responsible for Our scale and position within the market In addition to our ongoing support and regulatory issues and work with an internal sets the expectation that William Hill will continued adherence to the voluntary team and various industry bodies to be a leader in regulatory compliance and ABB Code, William Hill in conjunction with build relationships with political decisionstandards in the industry.
Ladbrokes, Coral and Paddy Power was makers and to make representations instrumental in creating, and has agreed to to governments.
Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk High High Stable Fiscal cHange Whats the issue?
What are we doing to address the The Group actively engages in relevant issue?
The Group is exposed to multiple taxation regimes throughout our international footprint As a scale operator, the UK POCT and Our continued international expansion and to the ability of customers to transact makes the risk of taxation change more other taxation changes represent an with our Online business in certain areas opportunity to take market share from those likely, if not certain, to some extent across where we do not have a physical presence.
However, it actively reduces the operators who are not well placed to deal There is, therefore, a risk that changes to the with the imposition of the tax.
There will be reliance on any individual country and will taxation status of gambling or the rates at lessen the impact of changes imposed by a requirement to ensure that cost savings which gambling is taxed in these territories and efficiencies throughout the Group any one government.
lead to increased costs for the business.
help to offset the overall impact of this and During the year the UK POCT regulations other taxes.
The Group continues to review took effect over UK customers betting with options and assess its operations in the the Online business.
The Group has also light of this.
For example, during the year seen increases in payments required by a decision was made to close 108 LBOs sporting bodies and further discussion on which were likely to be rendered unviable by this topic is ongoing.
MGD is expected to the upcoming increase in MGD.
46 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 managing our risks Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Low High Stable keY supplier relaTionsHips Whats the issue?
What are we doing to address the issue?
We have also assessed our supplier relationships and sought to change suppliers The Group is dependent on a number of key The Group is investing significantly in core or to exit relationships where our needs suppliers for operations, software, systems, technology platforms which will reduce were not being successfully delivered marketing and customer services in both reliance on third parties as part of our core throughout the Group, including key supplier Retail and Online.
We have or financial failures could cause significant During the year we continued to invest in strong, active working relationships with damage to the business and in key areas a our Group procurement function, including remaining key strategic and software wholesale failure across multiple suppliers the introduction of a risk-based supplier partners, with identified executives managing would be a catastrophic issue for the management process across all key key relationships.
business partners and a series of supplier All significant contracts and service audits conducted between our procurement, level agreements go through a robust internal audit and business continuity teams.
procurement process to ensure terms and service levels provide effective protection for the business.
Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk High Low Stable Business conTinuiTY and disasTer recoverY preparedness What are we doing to address the issue?
Business owners are key in identifying the Whats the issue?
criticality of their services and agreeing their During the year we experienced two During 2014, the Group has made significant recovery requirements with internal and significant business continuity events in our investments in the business continuity external service providers.
Online business, which served as a sharp planning and disaster recovery fields.
reminder that factors outside our control can The ongoing status of BCP is regularly We have commissioned multiple recovery materially impact our business.
However, in reviewed by executive management and sites across the Group which will provide both cases our Business Continuity Plans the Board.
for continuing operations of business critical BCP allowed us to continue to operate with functions in the event of major incidents Ongoing investment in enhancing our minimal disruption to our business and with and have introduced communication tools capabilities in the Group continues, with relatively minor impacts on our customers.
which will cascade information and allow significant improvements to existing This clearly demonstrates the value of the management to effectively plug into recovery arrangements and practices across the existing BCP and flexible IT capability.
processes worldwide should BCP be Group.
Further back-up IT systems have invoked for any reason.
These arrangements Whilst we have dealt effectively with these been put in place for a number of business have also been extended into our material major incidents, there remains the risk of critical systems, generally in different supplier network in the Online and Retail further impairment of our operations, for geographic locations from the main system.
We will also continue to test example by a technology failure or terrorist However, this is not intended to be a full and rehearse our people, technology and attack.
In particular, the Group is reliant duplication of the operational systems as building services infrastructure to ensure that on extensive IT systems and if our primary this would not be cost effective so some business continuity capability and readiness systems failed our ability to offer products day-to-day activities could be curtailed is embedded in the culture of the business.
and pricing to customers could be seriously should an incident occur.
Work is currently curtailed or shut down altogether.
ongoing to allow the Group to deliver on its planned four-hour targets for technical online systems recovery in the event of a major catastrophic incident.
Strategic report 47 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Medium High Increasing uk and inTernaTional growTH opporTuniTies Whats the issue?
Our results show profitable growth in the Australian and Nevada businesses as we Globally, a number of governments are We perform extensive analysis of different continue to support local management in changing or considering changing their markets and closely monitor regulatory maturing and expanding their businesses regulation of gambling, which could present changes in different countries to identify whilst working with our existing operations opportunities for William Hill to expand.
The Corporate to effectively share knowledge and products Development Office, reporting to the Further expansion could place increased where appropriate.
CEO, manages lead identification and demands on the capacity of the M&A support.
A core component of our overall strategy management team, require additional is harnessing the significant opportunities integration and alignment activities and Online is targeting its international expansion omni-channel represents with our leading increase the complexity of the Groups on a small number of territories primarily Online product and our exceptional technology landscape.
where we can take a local licence, ensuring Retail base.
focused investment of marketing spend in priority markets.
Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Medium Medium Stable daTa proTecTion and TecHnologY risk Whats the issue?
Our Online business undertakes regular external security scans and has controls in The risk of cyber attacks, distributed denial The Groups Retail, Telephone and Online place to mitigate the effects of DDoS attacks of service DDoS attacks and unauthorised divisions are compliant with the Payment against our systems.
access is a key issue for the industry and Card Industry Data Security Standard and the wider online world.
In addition, failure to regulatory security requirements for the We work with a number of specialist comply with regulations regarding the use of jurisdictions in which we operate.
IT partners to ensure that our security personal customer data could risk litigation arrangements and systems are well We have made significant investments or damage to our corporate reputation.
structured and up-to-date with the latest IT during the year in our Technology Security The likelihood of cyber attacks and impact of security developments.
team and security protection, and despite such events could increase as we continue being the subject of increased levels of cyber to promote the use of online and mobile threats, we have successfully mitigated the products and develop our international vast majority of these attacks and have not businesses which have localised regulations experienced major service loss as a result of to comply with.
any such attacks during the year.
48 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 managing our risks Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Low High Stable regulaTorY compliance Whats the issue?
As well as a structured programme of responsible gambling interactions we are We have to ensure we have robust A Group-wide review determined the design also deploying data analytics and modelling processes for meeting the British Gambling and operation of the compliance operations which seeks to identify a range of problem Commissions three licensing objectives and reporting were effective.
and for complying with all the regulatory We adhere to the Proceeds of Crime Act requirements of the jurisdictions in which we 2002 in the UK and online gaming is a operate.
Continuing changes in regulation, regulated sector for money laundering.
particularly of online gambling, could result We have dedicated regulatory and in a regulatory breach and sanctions if not compliance teams within the business.
identified in a timely manner and result in We have a number of processes to detect damage to our reputation or regulatory and report suspicious activity, and to sanction.
Technology solutions put in place handle requests for assistance from law to block access to customers from certain enforcement agencies and regulators, jurisdictions may fail.
Failure to detect all of which is overseen by the Groups money laundering, fraudulent activities, or Money Laundering Reporting Officer.
customer behaviour indicative of problem gambling could adversely affect our financial condition.
Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Low Medium Decreasing recruiTmenT and reTenTion oF keY  planning Whats the issue?
During the period we transitioned to a new The Board has visibility to key leadership CEO and saw well-managed turnover remuneration arrangements through the The William Hill Group is an increasingly within our senior management team, as any Remuneration Committee and the decision complex organisation with operations business of our size would anticipate.
to appoint James Henderson as our new in multiple countries across the world.
CEO during the year was made by the Our success is driven through the Board following a recommendation by the What are we doing to address the issue?
development and retention of a focused Nomination Committee.
leadership team and a number of skilled Overall, the Group provides competitive specialist employees throughout our The Group continues to utilise robust salary and benefits packages, including business.
The development of this short-term bonuses and long-term shareappraisal and goal setting processes and population of key employees and the performs annual talent reviews with the based incentives, and regularly reviews these appropriate recruitment and integration for competitiveness.
The Group of new talent to supplement this team regularly reviews the levels of employee All employees are encouraged to become underpins our growth strategy, as well as engagement through an annual employee owners of the business through annual Savethe need to ensure appropriate succession survey and implements specific action plans As-You-Earn programmes.
plans are developed and monitored to to address areas of improvement.
support our growth in the longer term.
