S E E T V A I C T I C N M E U I J M T B I M G O O A D C T N E D A N R I A Y S P G K O E S L T E A V R E T D S Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Strategic report 40 Our risks MANAGING OUR RISKS Recognising the effect of uncertainty on our business means that we are in a better position to achieve our objectives, respond to forthcoming risks and create opportunities.
The realisation of our business strategy depends on our being able to make sound, risk-informed decisions.
AIM KEY RISK MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTABILITIES Line managers bear the primary responsibility for identifying and Managing risk and uncertainty is an integral part of doing business.
managing risk and for implementing the risk management process: Now more than ever, we manage increasing uncertainty as we expand All business units, operating entities and functions must maintain an into new channels and formats and transform our business systems and up-to-date risk register including the status of risk improvement plans: processes to serve rapid changes in our industry.
Major changes and business development activities are subject to a formal risk assessment at initiation and throughout the life cycle of the change or activity: RISK FRAMEWORK The Management Board provides challenge to operational management The Board recognises that it is not always possible or desirable to through its review of the functional risk registers: and entirely eliminate risk.
The Board believes a successful risk management The Board has primary responsibility for risk governance and overseeing framework balances risk and reward, and applies reasoned judgement the risks associated with the Groups activities to ensure that they align and consideration of likelihood and impact in determining the Groups with our risk appetite.
RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES Our business strategy informs the setting of objectives across the business and is widely communicated: 1 Risks are identified by colleagues from all business areas through a variety of mechanisms, including facilitated workshops.
The likelihood and impact of identified risks are considered and captured: Responsibility for actions to mitigate risks is delegated to appropriate colleagues within the business, and risks and controls are recorded in the functional risk registers: and The Management Board considers the risks reported in the functional risk registers and, with assistance from Risk and Internal Audit, prepares a Group risk register.
This is reviewed and approved by the Board.
4 CHANGES DURING 2013 14 This year, a key development of the risk management framework 9D8 has been to codify existing practice into a formal policy statement.
This has helped to achieve more consistent good practice across the 2 business and also provides a guide for future improvements to risk management practices.
3 S R N O O T E I I I D V T N A E O C L N A M U T A F I D T F N O E Y A S R A S I W S E N E K C I D S V C E U R S Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 41 Key S Save No change I Invest Increase to residual risk G Grow See Strategy pages 18 to 29 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES BUSINESS CHANGE BUSINESS INTERRUPTION S I G I Risk Mitigation Risk Mitigation In order to drive productivity Organisation design structures and Our distribution and Recovery plans exist for sites and systems: and adapt to structural support established for all strategic change systems infrastructures Investment in remote IT disaster recovery site changes in the market, we initiatives: and are fundamental to and regular testing of recovery plans: are undertaking a number of ensuring the normal Comprehensive governance embedded Adherence to a stringent process for evaluating major change programmes continuity of trading, across the business, including steering new suppliers third parties: and that will significantly whether that is via our committees, business and technical Contingency arrangements confirmed for impact on existing ways of stores or online.
There is a risk that major incident occurred the business fails to build to this infrastructure or the capacity and capability another key facility, this to support the volume of could have a detrimental business change, resulting impact on our ability to in service disruption or operate effectively.
COLLEAGUE ENGAGEMENT BUSINESS STRATEGY S I G I AND RETENTION Risk Mitigation Risk Mitigation Effective long term Strategy development led by the Chief We are a people business Competitive employment policies, remuneration management of the Executive and senior management with and our 125,000 and benefits packages established: Groups strategic risks will Board scrutiny and approval: colleagues are key to Significant investment in training and deliver benefits to all our being able to fulfil our Engagement with a wide group of development, including Morrisons Academy and stakeholders.
If we fail to stakeholders to ensure the strategy Coaching for Performance programmes: understands that if the retain, develop and remains current: Regular talent reviews and refresh of succession strategy and vision are not motivate our colleagues, Communication of strategy via plans to meet the future needs of the business: properly formulated, we will not provide the numerous channels: communicated or quality of service that we Climate and Pulse surveys undertaken to implemented, then the long Clear link between strategic targets and are expected to.
understand and respond to colleague concerns: term aims of the Group may business plans to drive implementation: and and not be met and the business Close Board monitoring of Further information can be found on page 33. may suffer.
CUSTOMER PROPOSITION I FINANCIAL AND TREASURY S Risk Mitigation Risk Mitigation We operate in a highly The insight team provides the business with The main financial Treasury Committee controls activities in line competitive industry, and data and analysis that help explain customer risks that the Group is with Board approved policies and procedures, our customers shopping needs and wants to inform product ranging, exposed to relate to the reporting twice a year to the Audit Committee: habits are influenced by marketing, advertising and also the location cost of funding, the loss Hedging and derivatives are used to control risk broader economic factors of new stores: of financial counterparty and protect the business rather than create profit: that our business does not and the uncertainty Regular review of positioning against Board approval of budgets and business plans: control.
If we fail to keep produced by fluctuations competitors: and and our proposition aligned with in interest and foreign Introduction of a customer focused customers expectations, exchange rates.
All of Further information can be found in section 7 Morrisons loyalty offer before the end of by not analysing long these have the potential of the financial statements.
2014 15. term market trends and to undermine the maximising on opportunities, Groups ability to finance then they may choose not its trading activities and to shop with us and sales its financial results.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Strategic report 42 Our risks MANAGING OUR RISKS CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED FOOD AND PRODUCT SAFETY IT SYSTEMS I S I G Risk Mitigation Risk Mitigation If we fail to deliver excellent Strict standards and monitoring processes We have replaced and We partner with some of the worlds leading standards of hygiene and established to manage food safety risks upgraded systems in our technology companies for key projects: safety in our products, throughout the Group and supply chain: business to provide industryProject management methodology is there is potential to harm leading software capability.
ISO 22000 accreditation of food applied to all IT projects and programmes: our customers and damage We continue to roll out new manufacturing businesses: and our business reputation.
systems and decommission Regular supplier assessments undertaken Regular reviews are undertaken by Risk Our business focuses on fresh legacy IT systems.
to ensure adherence to standards: and Internal Audit and other specialists food and we have a vertically We are aware of the risks to provide assurance over significant IT Stock withdrawal procedures operate integrated business model: and potential for delays and projects and programmes delivering into throughout our supply chain to minimise therefore, food safety and the increased costs associated the business.
the impact to customers of any supply integrity of our supply chain with delivering successful recalls: and are of paramount importance.
Food Safety Steering Group, the Board and Management Board provide oversight of operational activities.
REGULATION REPUTATION I I Risk Mitigation Risk Mitigation The Group operates in an Clear accountabilities for compliance with We are committed to taking Morrisons values embedded into colleague environment governed by strict all areas of regulation exist: good care and, if we fail to Performance Development Review process: regulations to ensure the safety act as a responsible corporate Policies and procedures designed to Corporate responsibility policies, targets and protection of customers, citizen or misjudge the mood accord with relevant laws and regulations, and key performance measures clearly shareholders, colleagues of the nation, this could including GSCOP and competition law defined and integrated into operational and other stakeholders, and damage our reputation and, training: and management activities: the operation of an open therefore, potentially lose the Health and Safety and Compliance Responsible Sourcing Group, Management and competitive market.
trust of our stakeholders and Steering Group together with the Board and Corporate Compliance and These regulations include increase costs.
Management Board and Corporate Responsibility Committee oversee delivery alcohol licensing, health and Compliance and Responsibility against targets: safety, the handling of hazardous Committee oversee compliance with materials, data protection, the External assurance of Morrisons Corporate regulatory requirements.
rules of the Stock Exchange and responsibility report: and competition law.
In all cases, the Further information is available in our Board takes its responsibilities Corporate responsibility report at very seriously and recognises www.
co. uk cr that breach of regulation can lead to reputational and financial damage to the Group.
SPACE OPTIMISATION TRADING OPTIMISATION G S I G Risk Mitigation Risk Mitigation The business is committed to Property strategy develops core stores to We operate in a competitive Investments in core commercial processes capital discipline.
Within this a well proven format: market and our trading teams and ways of working: it acquires, develops and continually make decisions Formal capital approval process, overseen Scenario modelling: and disposes of properties.
If we that affect the offer to our by the Investment Board, which reports Buyer development programmes.
fail to adequately optimise our customers whilst managing into the Management Board: space profitably, our earnings the relationships with our Increasing experience of opening and will suffer.
If the business fails developing convenience stores: and to optimise these trading The operation of a robust impairment decisions we increase review process.
the chances of missing commercial opportunities and potentially decreasing sales and margins.
