Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Principal risks and their management Principal risks Principal risks Our reshaped business portfolio, evolving business models and 1.
Market conditions and growth increasing levels of investment are gradually changing the Companys 2.
Pressure on margins risk prole.
The Board has considered the nature and extent of the risks it is 3.
New business models willing to take in achieving the Groups 4.
These key risks, their level and trend are summarised 5.
Information security and business continuity inthissection.
The materialisation of these risks could have an adverse effect on 6.
Health and safety the Groups results or financial condition.
If more than one of these risks occur, the combined overall effect of such events may be 7.
Various mitigation strategies are employed to reduce these inherent risks to an acceptable level these are summarised on the following pages.
Some of these risks remain beyond the direct control of the Group and the risk management programme can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that risks are managed toanacceptable level.
The Group faces many other risks which, although important and subject to regular review, have been assessed as less significant andare not listed here.
These include, for example, major incidences of fraud, bribery or corruption or employee retention and motivation.
Financial risks and their management are summarised between pages 36 and 41.
Further information on Wolseleys People Strategy can be found on page 49.
Risk and strategy These and other risks may prevent us from achieving the full potential of our strategy.
The symbols below are displayed next to each risk on the following pages.
They indicate which of our objectives may be most directly affected by the risk identied.
The objectives are summarised on page 7.
1 2 3 4 5 6 Wolseley plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Key High inherent risks Medium inherent risks Low inherent risks Risk is rising Risk is stable Risk is falling Issue has been added tothe list of top Group risks this year Inherent risk and trend Denition Mitigation 1.
Market conditions and growth The Groups results depend on the levels The Group cannot control market conditions but believes it of activity in new construction and property has effective measures in place to respond to such events.
Despite a Wolseley continues to reinforce existing measures in place, t Inherent risklevel stabilisation in macroeconomic conditions, including: High construction activity and our business t the development of our business models: performance remain suppressed in key t cost control, pricing and gross margin management t Trend markets in Europe and in Canada and No change initiatives, including a focus on customer service and there remains a risk that this may continue.
productivity improvement: t Related Factors inuencing this risk include: t planning, budgeting and forecasting processes: objectives t the Companys ability to identify and t resource allocation processes: 1 2 3 respond to market trends: to develop new t capital expenditure controls and procedures: and business models and to manage costs, t diversication into other sectors which present new opportunities.
pricing and margins: Risk management practices continue to be strengthened in t the general rate of GDP growth: all businesses.
t consumer confidence: t mortgage and other interest rates: t the level of government initiatives to stimulate economic activity: t ination: and t unemployment.
Some of these factors are out of the Groups control and are difficult to forecast.
Until markets in Europe and Canada recover, the Group is increasingly reliant on growth in the USA to drive its overall performance.
A material issue in the USA could therefore affect the Groups results more than in the past.
Pressure on margins Market conditions in many geographies The Group is accelerating the implementation of new business remained highly competitive during the period models and continues to improve its gross margin, pricing and cost under review.
If not mitigated, this could lead management practices, which remain a priority for all businesses.
t Inherent risklevel to increased downward pressure on sales Sourcing and credit control measures have been strengthened.
High prices and profit margins.
Management information is more detailed, timely and relevant There is a risk that such competitive pressures as new information systems are being implemented across all of t Trend will increase and could be exacerbated by the Groups key markets.
For example, Wolseley UK successfully No change factors such as the arrival of new competitors, introduced a new core financial system in March 2014. t Related customer or supplier consolidation, We believe that high levels of customer service and product objectives manufacturers shipping directly to customers, availability play a fundamental role in maintaining competitive 2 3 other changes in the route to market, and advantage.
The Group has continued with its programme of work changes in technology.
to improve levels of customer service and inventory.
There is a risk that the Company may not identify changes in market conditions and margins quickly enough.
1 2 3 4 5 6 Denotes an objective which may be directly impacted by the risk identied see page 7 for strategic objectives Wolseley plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Principal risks and their management continued Key High inherent risks Medium inherent risks Low inherent risks Risk is rising Risk is stable Risk is falling Issue has been added tothe list of top Group risks this year Inherent risk and trend Denition Mitigation 3.
New business models To respond to changing customer needs the Programmes of work are dened, resourced and implemented Group is introducing new business models.
locally, according to customers needs and market conditions.
This will involve the development of new Businesses undergoing the greatest change have dedicated t Inherent risklevel technologies, updated exible employment programme and change management capability with High patterns and different ways of working.
The implementation of these models is now The Board reviews progress during regular updates from the t Trend well underway in many of our key markets Group Chief Executive and as part of its six-monthly review of Rising andwill continue for several years.
t Related The Groups ability to successfully execute The Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer objectives these changes, particularly in its European discuss progress with each business unit during regular 2 3 4 markets, will affect its ability to grow profitably performance reviews.
Each business unit has a clear strategy for continuously developing The Group must successfully implement its business model and a dened programme of work to execute these changes without disrupting the strategy.
Litigation The international nature of Wolseleys Levels of litigation are monitored by individual operating companies.
operations exposes it to the potential for A monthly report of potential exposures and current litigation is litigation from third parties, and such exposure submitted by all businesses and reviewed by the Group Company t Inherent risklevel is considered to be greater in the USA than Secretary and General Counsel.
The Company has assessed the level of product-related risk in Wolseleys strengths include its employees, all business units.
Wolseley conducts due diligence on high risk t Trend its products and the terms it negotiates with products and suppliers and it is implementing improvements No change its suppliers.
It is in these areas where the in contract terms.
Insurance arrangements for product liability t Related potential risk of litigation may be greatest.
exposures have been reviewed and enhanced.
objectives Acquisitions and disposals and the Internal audits of selected supplier contracts in the USA and France 2 3 6 restructuring of underperforming businesses were completed during the year.
The findings are being addressed.
may also give rise to litigation.
In the case of claims related to exposure to asbestos, Wolseley During the year, there has been no material continues to employ independent professional advisers to change in the level of litigation to which actuarially determine its potential gross liability.
Wolseley has theGroup is exposed.
For more information insurance which exceeds the current estimated liability relating on specic litigation affecting the Group, toasbestos claims.
1 2 3 4 5 6 Denotes an objective which may be directly impacted by the risk identied see page 7 for strategic objectives Wolseley plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Inherent risk and trend Denition Mitigation 5.
Information security and business continuity The security of important digital and physical Core IT systems and data centres for the Groups material assets, including data, technology systems, businesses, including the Groups principal e-commerce people and infrastructure is threatened by businesses, have documented disaster recovery plans which t Inherent risklevel natural and man-made perils.
Medium t a greater proportion of the Groups revenue During the year the Company introduced a pair of new European is derived from e-commerce channels: Data Centres, which incorporate high levels of protection t Trend and resilience.
Risk is rising t the level and sophistication of IT security threats are increasing: The Group operates an IT governance framework including a full set t Related of dedicated IT policies aligned to known security and operational t some of the Groups physical assets objectives risks.
Specic operational controls for IT security include intrusion are located in areas exposed to natural 2 3 4 5 6 prevention and detection, penetration testing, remediation of catastrophe risks, including California and wireless access issues, log and conguration management and Florida in the USA: in-ight projects to reduce the likelihood of an incident.
The Groups t we remain reliant on a number of different Chief Information Security officer has again undertaken a review technology systems across the Group, of information security capabilities across the Group and identied some of which have been operating for additional mitigating actions to be implemented.
many years: and The loss of a physical site is naturally hedged by the diversied t to optimise costs and supply chain nature of our locations, customers and suppliers.
efficiency, some companies within the The Group has formally documented and tested plans for Wolseley Group have also centralised their distribution centres, head ofce buildings and data centres where distribution network and are therefore the risk is considered to be greatest.
For example, the Companys reliant on a smaller number of larger wood solutions business in France comprehensively reviewed distribution centres.
andimproved its disaster recovery plans during 2013 14.
A comprehensive insurance programme is purchased, including coverage for cyber risks.
European Data Centres go live Responding to increasing demands for high-performing and secure technology systems, Wolseley has introduced a pair of new European Data Centres EDCs.
Established risk management methodologies, including detailed risk assessments, roll-back plans, controls testing and external audits, were applied throughout the project to ensure its successful go live, as scheduled, on 29 November 2013.
A primary co-located data centre is backed up by a purposebuilt, Wolseley-owned secondary facility.
Both the primary and secondary data centres are equipped with advanced digital and physical security, including the latest re suppression and biometric facial recognition ngerprinting access control systems.
Comprehensive system fail-over and full disaster recovery plans have been put in place, and the Centres are designed forfuture expansion.
The secondary EDC has a number of important environmental features.
It is primarily powered by a solar panel array, which, along with automated lighting and monitoring of cooling systems, signicantly reduce Wolseleys carbon impact and costs see case study on page 52.
Wolseley plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Principal risks and their management continued Key High inherent risks Medium inherent risks Low inherent risks Risk is rising Risk is stable Risk is falling Issue has been added tothe list of top Group risks this year Inherent risk and trend Denition Mitigation 6.
Health and safety The Group does not operate in a highFurther information on health and safety is contained in the risk industry with regard to health and Sustainability section on page 50. safety.
The nature of Wolseleys operations t Inherent risklevel can nevertheless expose its employees, Medium contractors, customers, suppliers and other individuals to health and safety risks.
t Trend New This risk has been included in the list of principal risks as a result of revised internal t Related risk assessment criteria.
The overall level objectives ofexposure has not increased.
Governmental regulations The Groups operations are affected by The Group monitors regulations across its markets to ensure that various statutes, regulations and laws in the the effects of changes are minimised and that we comply with all countries and markets in which it operates.
For example: t Inherent risklevel The amount of such regulation and the t the Group is reviewing its data protection practices in Medium low penalties can change.
anticipation of the forthcoming European Union General Data While the Group is not engaged in a highly Protection Regulation: t Trend regulated industry, it is subject to the laws No change t the Group continues to monitor and improve its anti-bribery governing businesses generally, including laws andanti-corruption practices: t Related relating to competition, product safety, data t face-to-face training on anti-competition law has taken place objectives protection, labour and employment practices withhigher risk employee groups: and 1 2 3 4 6 including pensions, tax, international trade, t in November 2013, the Group undertook a comprehensive fraud, bribery and corruption, land usage, the reviewof its health and safety practices and a new minimum environment, health and safety, transportation, standard is being implemented.
payment terms and other matters.
Information on our ethics programme and legal compliance can Building codes or particular tax treatments beseen on page 50. may affect the products Wolseleys customers are allowed to use and, consequently, changes in these may affect the saleability ofsome Wolseley products.
1 2 3 4 5 6 Denotes an objective which may be directly impacted by the risk identied see page 7 for strategic objectives Wolseley plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information System of risk management and internal control Board, Executive Committee Four levels of control and Audit Committee Fourth level Principal risks reviewed every six months by the Board and Executive.
Thresholds for principal risks agreed.
Controls and overall system of risk management reviewed by the Audit reports Audit Committee.
throughout the year Risk reports in March and September Front line business operations Corporate functions Independent assurance and line management Group and subsidiary level, Internal audit, external auditors and e. g. branches, distribution centres e. g. risk, treasury, finance, legal and IT otherindependent assurance providers audit both corporate functions and front Corporate Audit findings functions inform line business operations First level Second level analyse risk and assessments control data, of control Business operations implement policies Overall risk management policy Third level set policies effectiveness by and procedures.
They act in line with the andpolicies for principal risks in place.
and procedures Group Risk Companys Code of Conduct.
Internal audits and other Overall risk assessment and reporting Operations Reports from independenttests.
Risk assessments conducted at process managed by the Group Head report on risk and Group Risk site-level and controls established.
Internal audits in 2013 14 included control status inuence audit and submit priorities and contract compliance, anti-fraud and Policy and procedures set by performance plans for the anti-bribery and credit controls.
Risks and metrics, e. g. coming year injury statistics controllevels monitored.
External assurance obtained in 2013 14 overstatutory financial and Risk reports refreshed every six months.
The Groups system of risk management and internal control is built Improvements in the system of risk management around the lines of defence concept.
The Company reviews each andinternal control principal risk against four levels of mitigation: During the year, the system described above has been t 1st level: line management implement corporate policies, strengthened through: procedures and controls in front line operations such as t continuous improvement in the quality of operating company branches and distribution centres, sales and sourcing functions.
riskreports, particularly risk assessment and action planning: Act in accordance with the Code of Conduct: t introduction of improved policies and procedures in the areas t 2nd level: corporate functions design and monitor risks and ofhealth and safety, product integrity and financial control: controls, policies and procedures: t more branch operational audits to improve the oversight of t 3rd level: independent assurance functions e. g. internal and front-line operations: external audit undertake detailed testing of corporate functions and front-line operations: and t enhanced accuracy and frequency of risk data and other management information from front line operations: and t 4th level: the Board and its Committees receive risk and control data from all levels above.
t closer coordination and planning between internal audit andcorporate functions.
The interaction of these levels is shown above.
Wolseley plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
