How we comply Managing our risks Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has considered the principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group as at 31 December 2014 and up to the date of this report.
Some of these risks relate to general economic and financial conditions, while others are more specific to the Group and the industry in which we operate and the strategic decisions taken by the Board.
The Group has specific policies in place to ensure that risks are properly evaluated and managed at the appropriate level within the Group.
Issue Potential impact How it is managed Clients The Group competes for clients in a Competitors include large multinational Operating companies seek to establish highly-competitive industry and client advertising and marketing communication reputations in the industry that attract and loss may have a material adverse effect companies and regional and national retain clients, including by improving the on the Groups market share and its marketing services companies, database quality of their creative output.
business, revenues, results of operations, marketing and modelling companies, The Groups different agency networks limit financial condition or prospects.
telemarketers, information and measurement, potential conflicts of interest and the Groups social media and consulting internet companies.
cross-discipline team approach seeks to Service agreements with clients are generally retain clients.
terminable by the client on 90 days notice Brand Check at every Board meeting.
and many clients put their advertising and communications business up for competitive review from time to time.
The ability to attract new clients and to retain or increase the amount of work from existing clients may also in some cases be limited by clients policies on conflicts of interest.
The Group receives a significant portion A relatively small number of clients contribute Global client account managers seek to of its revenues from a limited number a significant percentage of the Groups ensure the Group maintains partnership of large clients and the net loss of some consolidated revenues.
The Groups 10 largest relationship with major clients.
Operating of these clients could have a material clients accounted for 16.6% of revenues in the companies seek to establish reputations in adverse effect on the Groups prospects, year ended 31 December 2014.
Clients generally the industry that attract and retain clients business, financial condition and results are able to reduce advertising and marketing and key talent.
spend or cancel projects on short notice.
The Brand Check at every Board meeting and loss of one or more of the Groups largest clients, regular dialogue between directors of if not replaced by new client accounts or an the Company and directors of the Groups increase in business from existing clients, would largest clients.
adversely affect the Groups financial condition.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 173 How we comply Managing our risks Issue Potential impact How it is managed Data Security The Group is subject to strict data The Group may be subject to investigative The Group assists the operating companies protection and privacy legislation in or enforcement action or legal claims or incur in developing principles on privacy and data the jurisdictions in which it operates fines, damages, or costs if the Group fails to protection and compliance with local laws.
and relies extensively on information adequately protect data or observe privacy Nominated senior executives provide technology systems.
The Group stores, legislation in every instance.
A system leadership on privacy and data protection.
transmits and relies on critical and breakdown or intrusion could have a material sensitive data such as strategic plans, adverse effect on the Groups business, WPP Data Code of Conduct and WPP policies personally identifiable information and revenues, results of operations, financial on data privacy and security.
Security of this type of data condition or prospects.
is exposed to escalating external threats WPP Data Health Checker survey performed that are increasing in sophistication as annually to understand the scale and breadth well as internal data breaches.
of data collected by WPP agencies, so level of risk associated with this can be assessed.
Existing and proposed data protection laws, in particular in the EU and the US, The IT transformation project will enhance concerning user privacy, use of personal the Groups data security.
In addition, the information and online tracking may Group has established a global internal restrict some of the Groups activities IT company responsible for providing core and increase costs.
IT shared services to all Group companies and manage external technology providers.
The Group is carrying out an IT transformation project and will rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of its worldwide information technology and operations functions.
A failure to provide these functions could have an adverse effect on our business.
Economic The Groups businesses are subject to Reduction in client spending or postponing Management of headcount and overheads.
Many of the economies spending on the services offered by the Group or Ensuring that variable staff costs are a in which the Group operates currently switching of client expenditure to non-traditional significant proportion of total staff costs have significant economic challenges.
media and renegotiation of contract and and revenue.
payment terms can lead to reduced profitability Increased controls over capital expenditure and cash flow.
Strategic focus on BRICs, the Next 11, MINT, new media and Data Investment Management.
Diversification by geographic and product markets.
Consideration of the impact on the Group if certain countries left the Euro, or in the event the Euro was devalued.
Brand Check at every Board meeting.
WPP 174 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How we comply Managing our risks Issue Potential impact How it is managed Financial Currency exchange rate fluctuations The Companys reporting currency is The Group hedges the currency element of its could adversely impact the Groups pounds sterling.
Given the Groups significant net assets using foreign currency borrowings, consolidated results.
international operations, fluctuations in cross-currency swaps and forward foreign currency exchange rates can affect the exchange contracts.
The balance sheet and Groups consolidated results.
cash flows of the Company are hedged by borrowing in the currency of those cash flows.
The Company publishes and explains its results in constant currency terms, as well as in sterling and on an actual dollar basis.
The Groups treasury position is a recurring agenda item for the Audit Committee.
The interest rates and fees payable The Companys long-term debt is currently rated Active dialogue with the rating agencies to by the Group in respect of certain of Baa2 by Moodys and BBB by Standard and ensure they are fully apprised of any actions its borrowings are, in part, influenced Poors and the Companys short-term debt that may affect the Companys debt ratings.
by the credit ratings issued by the obligations P2 and A2 respectively.
If the The Company also seeks to manage its international debt rating agencies.
Companys financial performance and outlook financial ratios and to pursue policies so as materially deteriorate, a ratings downgrade to maintain its investment grade ratings.
could occur and the interest rates and fees The Groups treasury position is a recurring payable on certain of the Companys revolving agenda item for the Audit Committee.
credit facilities and certain of the Groups bonds could be increased.
The Group is subject to credit risk The Group is generally paid in arrears for its Evaluating and monitoring clients ongoing through the default of a client or services.
Invoices are typically payable within creditworthiness and in some cases requiring other counterparty.
credit insurance or payments in advance.
The Group commits to media and production The Groups treasury position is a recurring purchases on behalf of some of its clients as agenda item for the Audit Committee.
principal or agent depending on the client and market circumstances.
If a client is unable to pay sums due, media and production companies may look to the Group to pay such amounts to which it committed as an agent on behalf of those clients.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 175 How we comply Managing our risks Issue Potential impact How it is managed Mergers & Acquisitions The Group may be unsuccessful in The Group regularly reviews potential Business, legal, tax and financial due evaluating material risks involved in acquisitions of businesses that are diligence carried out prior to acquisition to completed and future acquisitions and complementary to its operations and seek to identify and evaluate material risks may be unsuccessful in integrating any clients needs.
If material risks are not identified and plan the integration process.
Warranties acquired operations with its existing prior to acquisition or the Group experiences and indemnities included in purchase businesses.
difficulties in integrating an acquired business, agreements.
it may not realise the expected benefits from Audit Committee oversight of acquisition and such an acquisition and the Groups financial Board oversight of material acquisitions and condition could be adversely affected.
review of the integration and performance of recent and prior acquisitions.
Goodwill and other intangible assets The Group has a significant amount of goodwill Regular impairment testing, which recorded on the Groups balance sheet and other intangible assets recorded on its is a recurring agenda item for the with respect to acquired companies balance sheet with respect to acquired Audit Committee.
The Group annually tests the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles for impairment.
The estimates and assumptions about results of operations and cash flows made in connection with impairment testing could differ from future results of operations and cash flows.
Future events could cause the Group to conclude that the asset values associated with a given operation have become impaired, which could have a material impact on the Groups financial condition.
Operational The Group operates on a largely The Groups global operations are subject to Affiliate, associate and joint venture decentralised basis with approximately the following risk factors: i restrictions and or structures with local partners used in 16 operating entities in 111 countries changes in taxation on repatriation of earnings: developing markets.
and is exposed to the risks of doing ii economic, social or political instability Brand Check at every Board meeting.
business globally and of maintaining within different countries, regions and markets: reliable and uniform control procedures.
iii changes in foreign laws and regulatory Uniform approach to internal controls requirements, such as those on foreign to seek to ensure best practice employed ownership of assets or data usage or business in all jurisdictions.
models: and iv uncertainty or potential ineffectiveness or lack of enforcement in relation to the Groups client service agreements or other contractual rights.
WPP 176 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How we comply Managing our risks Issue Potential impact How it is managed People The Groups performance could be The Group is highly dependent on the talent, The Groups incentive plans are structured adversely affected if it were unable to creative abilities and technical skills of our to provide retention value, for example by attract and retain key talent or had personnel as well as their relationships with paying part of annual incentives in shares inadequate talent management and clients.
The Group is vulnerable to the loss of that vest two years after grant.
succession planning for key personnel to competitors and clients leading Operating companies seek to establish management roles.
to disruption to the business.
reputations in the industry that attract and retain key personnel, including by improving the quality of their creative output and by offering competitive performance-based compensation.
Succession planning of key executives is a recurring agenda item of the Board and Nomination and Governance Committee.
Compensation Committee oversight for the Groups incentive plans and compensation.
Regulatory Legal The Group may be subject to Governments, government agencies and The Group actively monitors any proposed regulations restricting its activities industry self-regulatory bodies from time to time regulatory or statutory changes and or effecting changes in taxation.
adopt statutes and regulations that directly or consults with government agencies and indirectly affect the form, content and regulatory bodies where possible on such scheduling of advertising, public relations and proposed changes.
public affairs and market research or otherwise Regular briefings to the Audit Committee of limit the scope of the activities of the Group and significant regulatory or statutory changes.
its clients which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position.
Changes in tax Group representation on a number of industry laws and international tax treaties or their advisory bodies.
application may also adversely affect the Groups reported results.
The Group is subject to strict antiThe Group operates in a number of markets Online and in-country ethics, anti-bribery, corruption, anti-bribery and anti-trust where the corruption risk has been identified corruption and anti-trust training on a legislation and enforcement in the as high by groups such as Transparency Group-wide basis to raise awareness and seek countries in which it operates.
Failure to comply or to create a compliance with the WPP Code of Conduct.
corporate environment opposed to corruption or Confidential helpline for WPP staff to raise failing to instill business practices that prevent any concerns, which are investigated corruption could expose the Group and senior and reported to the Audit Committee on officers to civil and criminal sanctions.
Due diligence on acquisitions and on selecting and appointing suppliers.
Gift and hospitality register and approvals process.
The Group is subject to the laws of the Failure to comply with these laws could expose Online training on a Group-wide basis to raise US, the EU and other jurisdictions that the Group to civil and criminal penalties awareness and seek compliance and updates impose sanctions and regulate the including fines and the imposition of economic to Group companies on any new sanctions.
supply of services to certain countries.
sanctions against the Group and reputational Regular briefings to the Audit Committee.
damage which could materially impact the Groups results.
