44 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties We recognise that effective risk management is fundamental to helping us achieve our strategic and operational objectives.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 45 Principal risks and uncertainties continued The Group Risk Committee, chaired the ownership and management of Having an integrated process supports by the Group chief executive officer, risk is not the exclusive responsibility management in determining the oversees the operation of the Groups of senior management but is passed appropriate level of risk for our operations.
risk management framework and provides down to appropriate staff members It also enables the organisation to identify, support to the Board and the Audit evaluate, control, monitor and own risks all significant risks have owners, Committee.
Effective risk management at the appropriate level, ensuring that: mitigation strategies and, where actions continues to be embedded in our have been identified, action owners a common approach to risk governance framework, which is who have been assigned a target date management is adopted, reducing summarised in the Corporate Governance by which the action is to be completed inefficiency Report pages 66 to 73. operational risks are fully articulated and we operate in an environment and subject to regular review, communication culture where both technical and This risk management framework and reporting across the organisation as commercial risk remain a key focus.
continues to support the Boards risk part of our normal management process appetite when assessing and determining We continue to manage a number of the nature and extent of the significant we operate in a culture that encourages potential risks and uncertainties which risks it is willing to accept in achieving its early disclosure of issues or concerns, could have a material impact on our strategic and operational objectives.
so that timely and appropriate action long-term performance.
Many of these can be discussed, agreed, assigned and risks are common to other companies and This framework and the associated risk implemented as necessary.
we assess them to establish the principal management structure support the risks for the Group.
The table overleaf systematic identification, assessment, It is intended that these principles and outlines the principal risks and the communication, reporting and the risk management framework continue mitigating activities we undertake in management of risk at both strategic to be used throughout the Group, respect of each of them, and indicates and operational levels, and seek to without exception, to achieve progressive the change of each in the year.
We ensure that: improvement in the effectiveness of continue to assess these risks under risk management processes.
The risk the public, employees and the two main categories of strategic risk management framework interfaces with environment are safe from potential and operational risk.
the commercial framework, providing hazards inherent in our operations an integrated, consistent process for the potential for damage to our Where applicable, the table crossassessing the level of risk for operational corporate reputation, or financial loss references principal risks with segmentprojects and services, depending on scale to shareholders and other stakeholders, specific risks.
This enables appropriate is minimised.
projects and services to be peer reviewed and evaluated, and the risks categorised.
The Board believes that, for risk management to be successful, it must integrate the framework into all activities and develop a culture and behaviour within the organisation that ensure: the management of risk is clearly driven from business strategy and objectives Group functions assist and support management in setting minimum standards across the Group WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 46 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk increasing Risk decreasing No material change to risk Strategic Risk in alphabetical order Mitigation Mitigating activities in action Change in year Economic outlook We have increased our sector and We have already reshaped our business Imposition of government austerity geographic diversification to provide to target more than 50% of our revenue measures has an impact on our trading resilience at a time when many of our outside the UK.
Our medium-term goal is performance as spending on public sector markets still experience uncertainty.
We to generate more than 75% of revenue infrastructure is reduced.
have a clear strategic priority to focus on from our non-UK and Energy businesses.
sectors which have attractive growth Worsening economic conditions lead We continue to focus on funded markets prospects with good levels of funding.
to reduced levels of private sector in targeting growth and evaluating infrastructure spend and have an adverse We actively seek to redeploy staff around investment opportunities.
impact on our clients ability to pay for the Group to meet demand in growth We have added resilience to our UK our services.
markets and sectors, frequently moving business through its ongoing support to work to people and people to work.
We perform client credit checks and maintain regular management reviews of credit terms, trade debtors and work in progress.
Financial We review the Groups trading and During the year we entered into a new The deterioration of the Groups financial funding position on an ongoing basis.
five-year revolving credit facility RCF of position limits our ability to invest in 200m, replacing the Groups previous We have made good progress in growth.
implementing our strategy to continue This is in addition to our 2012 debut Adverse movements in liability to fide-risk our defined benefit pension issue in the US private placement market, assumptions or asset values result in a schemes.
We will continue to manage which together broaden the sources significant increase in the Groups defined the assets and liabilities of our pension of funding available to the Group.
benefit pension obligations, increasing schemes.
the cash funding required to repay the We continue to monitor and actively The Groups treasury function manages deficit and reducing our ability to invest manage our strategy to fide-risk our and monitors external funding and in further growth opportunities.
investment requirements and risks arising We also concluded successfully our from the Groups financial instruments negotiations on the triennial actuarial risks, i. e. market risk including foreign funding valuation with the trustee of the exchange risk, interest rate risk and price Atkins Pension Plan during the year.
This risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
resulted in an extension of the associated deficit repayment plan to 31 March 2025.
Further information is contained in the United Kingdom and Europe review page 23.
Geo-political We have focused on geographies that Further information is contained in Political instability in the regions within have more stable trading environments.
the Middle East review page 33 and which we operate has a negative impact Asia Pacific review page 36.
We obtain the latest professional risk on our ability to deliver contractual and security information before engaging services and or receive payment and or in contracts in new geographies and endangers the safety of our staff.
continue to monitor the stability of the markets in which we trade.
Market We have robust, integrated review We are continuing to drive operational Worsening economic conditions lead procedures, which include peer reviews, performance across the Group to improve to changes in contracts resulting in during the bidding and contracting stage our margins.
increased risk transfer from clients as of our projects.
We continue to embed our integrated competitors accept more onerous We have focused our strategy on sectors review procedures across our contract terms to win work.
with strong growth prospects, good levels management and markets.
Reductions in the amount of available of funding and high technical barriers Initiatives such as our operational work increase pricing pressure and to entry.
excellence programme, together with the reduce our operating margins.
We have a strategic focus on operational increasing use of our global design excellence and on winning and delivering centres in India, aim to deliver a work.
competitive cost base while also supporting and enabling growth across the Group.
Regulatory legal We seek external advice about new Work to develop our Group code of Legislation and regulations restrict our and or changing trading restrictions, conduct continued during the year and ability to operate in certain locations communicating these changes across this is expected to be launched to all or perform certain activities, leading our business as necessary.
employees in the current financial year.
to the need to exit these markets.
We continue to invest in staff training We refreshed the communication of Breaches of regulation or legislation and communication.
details of our whistleblower hotline result in fines, imprisonment and or Group wide during the year.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 47 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk increasing Risk decreasing No material change to risk Operational Risk in alphabetical order Mitigation Mitigating activities in action Change in year Crisis event We have a Group crisis management plan The robustness of our plan continues to A significant one-off event affecting a key in place to respond quickly to such events.
be reviewed and tested and the plan is business location, project or employees updated as necessary.
could interrupt service delivery, threaten life and or cause reputational damage to our business.
Health, safety and environmental Safety is part of our commitment to Our Group wide behavioural awareness Shortcomings in our design or works quality and reliability.
Clear and explicit programme, Safe and Secure by Choice, supervision result in a health, safety or senior management leadership on health, continues to support the standard of our environmental incident involving staff, safety and environmental matters is commitment to creating a leading health clients or other third parties leading to regularly reinforced via targeted campaigns.
injury, loss of life and or significant We have implemented our safety We have developed the Atkins minimum damage to our reputation with all standards worldwide.
requirements to assess the competency stakeholders.
of construction contractors and set the We mandate accident and near-miss minimum standards expected on site reporting and provide a whistleblower when we supervise works.
hotline to enable staff to raise concerns confidentially.
We refreshed the communication of details of our whistleblower hotline We continue to invest in staff training Group wide during the year.
and communication about the importance of safety and security in the workplace.
Physical and data security We use appropriate physical security, We continue to provide information Confidential client business and or secure networks and encryption in order assurance training modules for our personal data is mishandled, resulting to protect data.
in breach of contract, the inappropriate We train staff on best practice in As part of a more holistic information release of commercially sensitive information assurance.
assurance programme, we have started information or the loss of the personal to develop plans for a behaviours-based information of our clients and or employees.
The Group security officer seeks to ensure programme of engagement with our best practice and raise the profile of Our business systems suffer an attack people on information assurance.
The safety and security of our people is threatened.
Projects We continue to implement our online We continue to target our investment Poor management of projects leads to project management system to drive in increasing project management client dissatisfaction, damage to our consistently high standards across the Group.
capabilities across the Group people, reputation for technical excellence and processes and systems.
We continue to invest in ongoing project a deterioration in the Groups financial management excellence training Further information is contained in the performance.
United Kingdom and Europe review page 23.
We continue to improve project controls, which include regular financial reviews of project performance.
Staff recruitment and retention Regular business reviews evaluate a A new online platform, My Career, Failure to attract and retain the most number of metrics including headcount, was rolled out to all regions during the talented, motivated professionals in their retention, vacancy levels and employee year.
This supports a consistent approach respective fields makes us unable to engagement.
to staff performance reviews, training, deliver on clients expectations and career planning and development.
respond to the most technically Engagement is essential in a peoplechallenging and time-critical projects, based business.
We continue to use a thereby eroding our market share and variety of channels, including our annual damaging our financial performance.
Viewpoint survey, to communicate and engage with our employees.
Technical delivery Robust review procedures during the We have developed seven design Design errors or omissions lead to client bidding, contracting and delivery stage principles which govern all our technical dissatisfaction, financial losses and to ensure that the Group has the capability work.
These are now embedded in our damage to our reputation for technical to deliver the scope of work.
set up a working group of representatives Ongoing technical training and from all our operating businesses and development.
relevant corporate functions, which Appointment of network chairs to provide has been tasked with developing and technical centres of excellence across the disseminating best practice regarding Group.
Key areas of focus currently are project manager competence, electronic data management and technical assurance.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
