Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 64 Principal risks and management controls Our principal risks and how we manage them The key risks and uncertainties shown on pages 67 to 71 are As we continue to grow, having a coherent, those the Board considers to be of greatest signi cance to well-established and embedded risk Babcock as it stands today.
They have the potential materially management culture within the business is and adversely to affect Babcocks business and the delivery of its strategy.
For each risk there is a description of the possible fundamental to allowing us to work towards impact of the risk on the Group should it occur, and the our strategic objectives.
Having a clearly mitigation and control processes in place to manage the risk.
fide ned risk appetite, and working within This list is likely to change over time as different risks take on an effective framework which manages our larger or smaller signi cance.
The size, complexity and spread of Babcocks businesses and the continually changing environment risk in line with this approved framework, in which the Group operates also mean that the list cannot be has, and will, allow us to pursue new an exhaustive list of all signi cant risks that could affect the opportunities whilst protecting the Groups Group.
Risks and uncertainties which affect or are likely to affect businesses in general, and are not speci c to the Group, assets, and minimising the potential for are not set out as key risks, but Babcock, in common with other financial or reputational risk.
businesses, faces those risks too.
Bill Tame How Babcock manages risk Group Finance Director Babcock has an established system of risk management and internal control processes which operate through all levels of the Groups business.
Throughout the year the Board, through the Audit and Risk Committee, critically evaluates and reviews major risks faced by the Group and the controls and mitigation plans in place intended to manage and reduce their potential impact and ensure that the assets and reputation of the Group are protected.
The Groups risk management and internal control systems can only seek to manage, not eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, as any system can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Strategic report Internal controls Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 Board The Board is ultimately Risk management framework responsible for the Companys risk management and internal control system, which is overseen on its behalf by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Audit and Risk Committee Babcock has two senior level reviews aspects of the risk Security Committees which each management and control system meet regularly to discuss security at its meetings and at least once a and information assurance issues Audit and Risk Security year formally reviews the systems and threats facing the Group.
Committee Committees effectiveness on behalf of the The Committees also provide Board see the effectiveness oversight of the Groups security review statement on pages 121 and information assurance 122.
It also receives in-depth infrastructure and ongoing presentations on individual security projects.
Finance Director is Chairman of both Committees and reports The Audit and Risk Committee on security and information receives regular reports from assurance matters to the Board.
Internal Audit Ernst & Young, the internal audit function provider.
It also Operationally, internal control receives external audit reports systems are monitored by from .
senior Group management The reports look at internal with Divisional Chief Executives controls and risk issues.
having responsibility for risk identi cation and risk management in their businesses.
See p66 Group risk management The Group Risk Manager works with divisional management teams to keep under review and development, and to share best practice in making, the Groups Employees undertake a selection risk assessments and compliance of compulsory risk management with risk management standards training programmes for and processes.
example: security, data protection Company Risk assessments made at and anti-bribery and corruption business unit level are subject to employees training appropriate to their regular review and challenge by roles, in order to increase Group senior management.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 66 Principal risks and management controls continued Other internal controls include: Annual budgets and medium-term The Group has a Code of Conduct Budget process Code of financial plans are reviewed by Group making clear its commitment to the Conduct and management before submission to the highest ethical standards and the ethical anti-bribery and Board for approval.
Updated forecasts for standards it demands from its employees corruption the year are prepared at least quarterly.
and those who work for it and with policies and whom it does business.
The Board receives details of monthly Management procedures actual financial performance compared and financial There is an explicit anti-bribery and against budget, forecast and the prior corruption governance structure in place reporting year, with a written commentary and detailed policy and procedures on signi cant variances from available on the Babcock website, approved plans.
with supporting training programmes, which the Company believes meet the The Chief Executive and Divisional Chief requirements of adequate procedures Executives report to each Board meeting under the Bribery Act 2010.
Appropriate on operating performance and matters due diligence is carried out on actual of potential strategic signi cance.
Those Group senior management receives a working on our behalf or in consortium monthly narrative operating report from with us are required to abide by our all business units.
Code of Conduct or an equivalent and There is a formal security and information Security and to undertake not to behave corruptly.
assurance governance structure in place See more on our Code of Conduct on information to oversee and manage security and pages 54 55. governance similar risks.
The Group has written policies and Group policies structure procedures, which are kept under and procedures The Board regularly reviews and Clear delegation review, covering a range of matters approves a schedule of delegated and limits of intended to reduce or mitigate risk, authorities setting out levels of speci c authority such as: health, safety and environmental financial decision-making authority policies, security and information delegated by it.
assurance, export controls, contracting The Group has a large and Insurance requirements and guidelines, legal, comprehensive insurance programme, financial and accounting matters.
preferring to place risk in the insurance These policies and procedures are market, where available on acceptable available to employees on the Group terms, rather than to self-insure or make intranet and are supplemented at signi cant use of captive insurance.
divisional level by further business unit The Group has a full-time Insurance speci c policies and procedures.
Manager who reports annually to the All employees have access to a Whistleblowing Board on the strategic approach being con dential whistleblowing hotline hotline taken to insurance and on the placing with the opportunity to call, email or of the programme.
write letters detailing any area of The Board and Group Executive Claims and concern to be brought to the attention Committee receive monthly summaries litigation of senior management.
A report on of material disputes and actual or all whistleblowing cases and the reporting potential threats of claims, their progress resultant investigations and conclusions and potential outcomes.
The Group has is submitted to each Audit and Risk an internal legal service.
All signi cant credit risks are reviewed by Credit controls Divisions regularly review the vulnerability Critical supplier Group Finance and an Executive Director, of key supply chain partners whose reviews and, where appropriate and available, risk continued ability to supply the Group limitation actions are taken.
is considered critical to its business performance, and also consider fall-back plans when first deciding to appoint such suppliers.
All divisions, business units and Group Business functions are required to consider the continuity and need for and put in place appropriate disaster recovery plans to minimise the risk of interruption plans to business and contract performance in the event of a major disruption to normal functioning arrangements.
Strategic report Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 Key risks, risk mitigation and controls In this section Group means the enlarged Babcock Group including the Avincis Group, which will be integrated within the governance and controls systems of the Babcock Group.
Given its particular importance as a customer of the Group, reductions in the UK Ministry of Defences budget or changes Risk: Reliance on large contracts with a in its defence policy or spending priorities such as changes to relatively limited number of major clients, policy on continuous at sea deterrence or successors to existing including clients affected by political and nuclear deterrence capabilities or submarine or surface ship strength or capabilities may adversely affect the Groups public spending decisions, means we are business if those reductions or changes result in the delay, exposed to political risks, damage to our cancellation, abandonment or signi cant reduction in scope of reputation or the reputation of other activities that may otherwise have been available for the Group to participate in.
The UK Government is due to undertake a outsourcing businesses and thus Strategic Defence and Security Review in 2015 after the general outsourcing itself, or our ceasing to meet election due in 2015 and such a review may have material short customer or regulatory requirements for or longer-term consequences for the Babcock Groups business with the Ministry of Defence.
doing business with them, can have serious adverse consequences.
Impact Failure to meet, obtain or retain the necessary eligible status or regulatory requirements to contract with such major Description customers could substantially impact entire business areas.
Babcocks customers are mainly large, complex organisations, The loss or cancellation of, or failure to renew, any of these typically central or local government departments notably large contracts or the withdrawal of anticipated opportunities the UK Ministry of Defence, other public sector bodies or due to customer policy changes could have a materially commercially owned entities in sectors subject to speci c adverse effect on the Groups financial results.
Many of them rely, to a greater or lesser extent, on public funding.
These customers may be affected by financial, A loss of reputation for any reason, either generally or with budgetary, regulatory or political constraints which could have a speci c major customer, could lead to a signi cant loss of a signi cant impact on the size, scope, timing and duration of existing or future business.
contracts and orders with placed by them and therefore on the level of business which the Group will derive from such Risk mitigation and control process customers.
In addition, because of their size, these customers The Company has extensive and regular dialogue with key have considerable bargaining power and have the ability to customers, involving, as appropriate, the Chief Executive, cancel contracts without, or on, short notice, often without Divisional Chief Executives and other members of the senior cause or exert pressure to secure their renegotiation.
reliance on a relatively limited number of customers and The Company actively monitors actual and potential political contracts carries risks.
and other developments that might affect its customers.
National and local government policy changes and public The Company seeks to have and keep up to date a clear spending constraints are potentially material risks for the understanding of ongoing regulatory requirements and to Group as they could result in delays in placing work, pressure on maintain good working relationships with regulators.
pricing or margins, withdrawal of projects, early termination of contracts, lower contract spend than anticipated or adoption The Company seeks to obtain a clear understanding of of less favourable contracting models.
These customers set customer needs, plans and constraints and monitors customer demanding criteria for eligibility for contracting with them, policy developments and potential developments closely.
the cost of compliance with which can be signi cant.
Damage The Company aims to be innovative and responsive in helping to Babcocks reputation, whether justi ed or not, or to the customers meet their needs and challenges and this may lead reputation of outsourcing itself as a business model by reason to opportunities rather than risks in relation to budget cuts.
of reputational or performance issues with other suppliers, has the potential, given a relatively narrow customer base and the Senior management at Group and divisional level are keenly size of contracts at stake, to impact severely our ability to win aware of reputational risks, which can come from many sources.
or retain signi cant business streams.
Our risk control procedures relating to contract performance, anti-bribery and corruption, health and safety performance and other matters that could impact our reputation are described elsewhere in this risk management section.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 68 Principal risks and management controls continued Impact Risk: Scottish independence and Failure to meet performance conditions set out in the contract could result in the cancellation of a contract associated uncertainties and knock-on resulting in claims for loss and reputational damage for effects.
Poor performance against a contract will undermine the Companys ability to win any future rebids for work.
Description If the Scottish independence referendum to be held in Poor performance may result in signi cant financial loss September 2014 results in a majority vote in favour of or signi cantly lower returns than expected.
independence, the consequences for the Groups businesses cannot be predicted with certainty.
Regardless of the ultimate Risk mitigation and control process impact, there is likely to be a lengthy period of uncertainty Forward-looking management reviews are in operation to which may itself have adverse consequences for the Groups ensure contracts are being operated pro tably and are being business, financial condition, operating results or prospects.
There may also be a medium-term knock-on effect on the Contractual performance is continually under review.
Major nature, timing and scope of the policies and procurement contracts have risk identi cation and management processes plans of the United Kingdom, especially in defence terms, in place.
Signi cant risks will be tracked on risk registers.
the impact of which cannot be predicted with certainty.
Failure to maintain required contractual performance or contract delivery targets will be highlighted at an early stage.
Impact Potential adverse consequences on the Groups Scottish A review of contract performance takes place at a business unit, business include: divisional and senior Group executive level as appropriate.
A signi cant long-term reduction in revenue at HMNB Clyde and the inability to win contracts for the Royal Navy at Rosyth.
Risk: Failure to realise the pipeline of In the case of Avincis, a reduction in demand for offshore opportunities and secure rebids.
crew-change helicopter services due to less investment in the North Sea.
Description New Scottish regulatory and ownership regimes for the rail Failure to realise the pipeline of opportunities and secure and nuclear industries and the aviation sector plus health and rebids for existing contracts can involve signi cant wasted safety as a whole may have consequences for the Groups rail costs, missed opportunities and loss of revenue.
Bidding for and nuclear businesses in Scotland and the Avincis business in large and complex contracts can be time-consuming and is the North Sea.
expensive, as can be mobilising on new contract wins.
Also, Risk mitigation and control process by their nature, large, longer-term contracts are irregular and The Group will monitor developments closely.
relatively infrequent in coming to market.
The Group may also face competition in the bidding process from either existing competitors or new market entrants.
Risk: Contracts carry strict performance Impact conditions with which Babcock must Unsuccessful major bids or rebids can involve signi cant comply within the tendered price.
The inability to secure a major new contract can represent a signi cant missed opportunity for growth.
Description Contracts entered into by the Group are generally complex and Losing rebids can mean the loss of a signi cant existing lengthy, and are subject to various performance conditions revenue and pro t stream.
which must be adhered to throughout the life of the contract.
The loss of a bid or rebid can impact on the Groups strategic Failure to meet the performance criteria of a contract can lead objectives.
to compensation arrangements being triggered, or the contract might not be capable of completion within the tendered price or at a lower margin than anticipated or even at a loss.
Strategic report Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69 Contracting on unacceptable commercial terms in order Such incidents could lead to groundings of particular types to secure new business or resecure existing business of aircraft temporarily or for longer periods and this may have could undermine future pro tability and sustainability an adverse impact on the ability of the business to perform of business growth.
its contracts for which the aircraft were required or involve greater cost in doing so.
The Group may face expense, delay or loss of awarded contracts if its competitors protest or challenge awards As well as legal claims, the Group may be subject to financial of contracts to the Group.
loss through fines by regulators, suspension or loss of licences, disquali cation from future tenders and adverse media Risk mitigation and control process attention and scrutiny.
The Company has a clear business strategy to target a large A major incident at a Babcock controlled location may restrict bid pipeline and will only tender bids for those contracts the ability of the Company to continue business and ful l with clear alignment with the Group strategy and in which contractual obligations.
the Company stands a realistic chance of success.
Group policies and procedures set a commercial, financial and Risk mitigation and control process legal framework for all bids.
Avinciss eet of aircraft is modern, with sophisticated ground monitoring systems and up-to-date on-board ight Senior divisional and Group executives regularly review the systems.
Avincis aims to have one of the best safety practices Groups performance on major bids, which are subject to in the industry through its MissionSafe group-wide multiple gating evaluation points for approval to proceed safety programme.
Health, safety and environmental performance are absolute Management target the allocation of resources to areas where priorities for Babcock and receive close and continuous the opportunities for winning business or retaining existing attention and oversight from the senior management team business are highest.
as well as at an operational level.
There is a speci c health, safety and environmental Risk: Operations carrying signi cant health governance structure in place.
Employees may report any areas of concern or incidents of non-compliance to and safety or environmental risks.
Reports are regularly received on health, safety and Description environmental performance by divisional boards.
The Board Many of Babcocks operations, if not properly managed and and Group Executive Committee receive half-yearly reviews of conducted, entail the risk of signi cant harm to employees, performance and the regular operational reports submitted at third parties, members of the public or the environment.
The each of their meetings address health, safety and environment operations of helicopters involve an inherent degree of risk incidents on an ongoing basis: the Chief Executive also reports which is compounded by the nature of Avinciss helicopter directly and promptly to the Board on any signi cant matters.
services that often involve low altitude ying in adverse climatic or operational conditions or terrains.
Health and safety and environmental professionals are employed throughout business divisions.
External consultants Impact are utilised to give advice on best practice and help evaluate Serious accidents can have a major impact on the lives of and design management-led improvement initiatives.
those employees involved as well as their families, friends, Staff are rigorously and continuously educated and trained to colleagues and communities.
ensure the potential for mistakes and accidents is minimised.
In the event that such an incident is caused or perceived to Babcock has insurance policies in place, as well as business be caused, or contributed to, by the operational or other continuity plans in the event of a major incident.
Avincis also failings of a Group company, this could subject the Group to has aviation insurance cover in place and continually improves legal claims, resulting in the payment of substantial damages, and updates its safety processes and systems.
not all of which will be insured, interruption of services to customers and serious damage to the reputation of the Unsatisfactory health, safety or environmental performance business concerned and the wider Group.
can lead to reduction or annulment of executive bonuses.
Incidents involving other operators in the sector concerned, such as other helicopter operators, may also adversely impact customer con dence generally and lead to reductions in demand.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 70 Principal risks and management controls continued Risk: The Groups businesses depend on Risk: IT and security.
their ability to attract, develop, train and retain experienced senior management, Description The ability of the Group to be able to deliver secure IT and business development teams and highly other information assurance systems designed to protect skilled employees.
personal data or customer or Company con dential information is a key factor for customers.
Despite controls to ensure the con dentiality of such information, the Group may breach Description restrictions or may be subject to attack from computer The Groups continuing success will depend on the Groups programs or malicious or hostile third parties that attempt to ability to plan for management succession and to attract, penetrate the network security and misappropriate con dential develop, train and retain quali ed and experienced information and there is no guarantee that the Groups security management and business development executives.
The Groups measures will be suf cient to prevent breaches or cyber attacks.
success also depends on its ability to recruit, develop, train In addition, the risk of loss of information or data by other means and retain highly skilled and suitably quali ed employees, who due to a failure to keep it safe at all times and within custody or represent a substantial amount of the Groups intellectual control is a risk that cannot be entirely eliminated.
capital, to serve customers effectively.
Competition for skilled personnel in the industries in which the Group operates is Impact intense.
Employees who are highly trained are likely to remain Any breach or compromise of security or a breach of security a limited resource for the foreseeable future.
Identifying, at a physical site could lead to loss of reputation, disruptions recruiting and training personnel requires substantial resources.
in business operations and inability to meet contractual obligations and have an adverse effect on the Groups Impact ability to win future contracts and, as a result, on results A loss of one or more of the members of the Groups senior of operations and overall financial condition.
management without adequate replacement could have a material adverse effect on the prospects for, or performance Risk mitigation and control process of, the Group.
Babcock has made, and will continue to maintain, a signi cant investment in enhancing IT security and security and Insuf cient experienced business development or bidding information awareness generally.
resources can impair the ability of the Group to achieve strategic aims and financial targets or the inability to pursue There is a formal security and information assurance business in new areas.
governance structure in place to oversee and manage cyber-security and similar risks.
If the Group fails to recruit and retain quali ed employees, in particular suitably quali ed and experienced engineers, Senior Group and divisional level Security Committees meet technicians, pilots and other specialist skills groups, including on a regular basis to discuss areas of concern throughout by failing to maintain compensation awards at an appropriate the Group and security related projects in the light of level, this could lead to a failure to ful l contractual perceived threats.
obligations, the inability to pursue business in new areas or a The Group Finance Director who is the Groups Senior loss of reputation, any of which could have a material adverse Information Risk Owner reports to the Board at least quarterly effect on the business, financial condition or operating or regarding Group security and information assurance matters financial results of the Group.
generally, and will make ad hoc reports in the interim should Risk mitigation and control process any signi cant incident occur.
High priority and signi cant resources are given to recruiting skilled professionals, training and development, succession Risk: The Group has signi cant fide ned planning and talent management generally.
The Group Organisation and Development Director reports regularly to the Board and Group Executive Committee on succession planning, executive management talent training Description and development and on graduate recruitment.
fide ned bene t schemes provide for a speci ed level of pension The Nominations Committee and the Board, as appropriate, bene t to members, the cost of which is met from both member debate management succession issues on a regular basis and and employer contributions paid into pension scheme funds also use external advice where appropriate.
and the investment returns made in those funds over time.
The level of contributions required to meet pension obligations Apprentice and graduate recruitment programmes are run is actuarially determined based on various assumptions, which throughout all business units.
Strategic report Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71 are subject to change, such as life expectancy of members, investment returns, in ation etc.
If, based on the assumptions Risk: Integration of new acquisitions being used at any time, assets in the pension scheme are judged including Avincis the Group has to be insuf cient to meet the calculated cost of the pension experienced growth through acquisitions: obligations there can be a signi cant shortfall, which the scheme trustees may require to be made up or secured by the financial bene ts of these acquisitions increased contributions from employers and or employees, may not be realised as quickly and as additional cash payments from employers and or guarantees or ef ciently as expected if there is dif culty other security to be provided by employers.
The most signi cant impact can occur due to differences between the actual and in integrating them.
assumed investment returns and changes in the assumption for life expectancy.
Description Also, the Group must comply with IAS 19 when accounting for The Avincis Group will need to be integrated into the internal its fide ned bene t schemes.
IAS 19 requires corporate bond management and other reporting requirements of the Babcock related discount rates to be used to value the pension liabilities.
Babcock may encounter dif culties when seeking to This is likely to lead to variations from year-to-year due to a integrate the Avincis Group, as a result of differences in mismatch with the investments held in the pension schemes and organisational structure, IT systems, language, management because of variations in the yields available on corporate bonds and local cultures and management and operational issues.
This in turn can materially affect The Avincis Group itself has grown by acquisition of a number the pensions charge in the income statement in the Groups of companies, which carries its own integration risks.
accounts from year-to-year as well as the value of the difference between the assets and the liabilities shown on the Groups Impact balance sheet, leading to signi cant accounting volatility.
If such integration dif culties are signi cant, this could Future accounting, regulatory and legislative changes may adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of also adversely impact on valuations and costs.
operations or prospects of the Group.
The diversion of management attention to integration issues Impact and other dif culties encountered could adversely affect the Should the assets in the pension scheme be judged insuf cient Groups business.
to meet liabilities the employer may be liable for increased contributions.
This may reduce the cash available to meet the Post-acquisition performance may not meet the financial Groups other obligations or business needs, and may restrict performance expected and could therefore not justify the the future growth of the business.
price paid and could adversely affect the Groups future results and financial position.
Accounting standards for pensions related liabilities can lead to signi cant accounting volatility from year-to-year due to Risk mitigation and control process the need to take account of macro-economic circumstances We seek to carry out due diligence as far as we are able and beyond the control of the Company.
carry out a detailed valuation process based on information available and our knowledge of the marketplace.
Risk mitigation and control process There is continuous strategic monitoring and evaluation by All acquisition processes are overseen by the Board and no Group senior management of both the assets and liabilities acquisition may be completed without formal approval of of the pension scheme and, as appropriate, the execution the Board.
Integration risk is considered at an early stage as part of the The Group Pensions Manager, reporting to the Group Finance review of acquisition opportunities and integration planning Director, keeps strategic pension matters under close review takes place before completion of the acquisition.
and reports regularly to the Executive Committee and or The Group has what it considers to be a good track record in the Board.
and experience of integrating acquisitions both large and small.
The Company seeks to have a constructive and open relationship with the schemes trustees with a view to working together to mitigate and manage these long-term risks.
A long-term investment strategy and risk framework has been agreed with scheme trustees intended to reduce the impact of the schemes exposure to changes in in ation and interest rates.
Longevity swaps are used to reduce the impact of the schemes exposure to increasing life expectancy.
