Strategic Report Effective management of risks and opportunities isessential to the delivery of the Groups strategic HOW WE objectives, achievement ofsustainable shareholder value, protection of its reputation and meeting the MANAGE requirements of good corporate governance.
RISK and compliance controls and risk margin is recognised after making suitable Board management systems, in accordance with allowances for technical and other risks The Board has overall responsibility for the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The related to performance milestones yet to determining the nature and extent of the risk Company has developed a system of internal beachieved.
it is willing to take within the strategy, and controls that was in place throughout 2014 ensuring that risks are managed effectively In addition, every six months, the businesses and to the date of this report.
complete an Operational Assurance As with any system of internal control, the Statement OAS, which is a mandated policy Risk is a regular agenda item at Board policies and processes that are mandated under the Operational Framework.
The OAS meetings and the Board reviews risk as part inthe Operational Framework are designed is in two parts: a self-assessment of of its annual strategy review process.
This to manage rather than eliminate the risk compliance with the Operational Framework: provides the Board with an appreciation of offailure to achieve business objectives and a report showing the key financial and the key risks within the business and andcan only provide reasonable, and not nonfinancial risks for the relevant business.
oversight of how they are being managed.
absolute, assurance against material Together with reviews undertaken by Internal The Board delegates certain risk management misstatement or loss.
Audit and the work of the external auditors, activities to the Audit and Corporate the OAS forms the Groups process for Responsibility committees as follows.
Financial and nonfinancial risks reviewing the effectiveness of the system ofinternal controls.
Financial risks expose the Group to potential Audit Committee costs which are quanti able on the basis The Audit Committee monitors the Groups Executive Committee that their probability and impact can be key risks identi ed by the risk assessment The key financial and nonfinancial risks understood adequately and related to the processes and reports its findings to the identi ed by the businesses from the risk financial statements.
It is also responsible for assessment processes are collated and reviewing in detail the effectiveness of the reviewed by the Executive Committee to Nonfinancial risks cannot be assessed readily Groups system of internal control policies, identify those issues where the cumulative in financial terms and, therefore, cannot be and procedures for the identi cation, risk, or possible reputational impacts, could re ected reliably in the financial statements.
assessment and reporting of risk.
Process Corporate Responsibility Committee Management responsibility for the The Corporate Responsibility Committee Businesses management of the Groups most signi cant monitors the Groups performance in The responsibility for risk identi cation, nonfinancial risks is determined by the managing the Groups signi cant nonfinancial analysis, evaluation and mitigation rests Executive Committee.
The OAS and risks, including those arising in respect of withthe line management of the businesses.
nonfinancial Risk registers are reviewed business conduct, health and safety, and They are also responsible for reporting and regularly by the Executive Committee to the environment, and reports its findings to monitoring key risks in accordance with monitor the status and progression of the Board on a regular basis.
established processes under the Groups mitigation plans, and these key risks are Operational Framework.
reported to the Board on a regular basis.
Approach The Groups risk management process is set The Groups approach to risk management Principal risks out in the Risk Management Policy, a mandated isaimed at the early identi cation of key The Board has carried out a robust policy under the Operational Framework, risks, mitigating the effect of those risks assessment of the principal risks facing and, in respect of projects, in the Lifecycle before they occur and dealing with them theCompany, including those that would Management Framework, a core business effectively if they crystallise.
threaten its business model, future process under the Operational Framework.
Such The Group is committed to the protection of Further guidance is provided by a Risk risks have been identi ed as principal based its assets, which include human, intellectual Management Maturity self-assessment tool.
on the likelihood of occurrence and the and physical property, and financial Identi ed risks are documented in risk potential impact on the Group, and have resources, through an effective risk registers showing: the risks that have been been identi ed through the application of management process, underpinned where identi ed: characteristics of the risk: the thepolicies and processes outlined above.
basis for determining mitigation strategy: These risks, together with details of how Reporting within the Group is structured so and what reviews and monitoring are they are being mitigated and managed, are that key issues are escalated through the necessary.
Each risk is allocated an owner detailed on pages 50 to 53. management team and ultimately to the Board who has authority and responsibility for As a result of its assessment of the Groups where appropriate.
The underlying principles assessing and managing it.
principal risks, the Board has determined of the Groups risk management policy are Project risks are reported and monitored in that a number of risks identi ed as being that risks are monitored continuously, Group-mandated format Contract Review principal risks in the 2013 Annual Report, associated action plans reviewed, appropriate Packs, which are reviewed by management while still risks for the Group, are no longer contingencies provisioned and this at monthly Contract Reviews.
The financial considered tobeprincipal risks and has information reported through established performance of projects is reported and added an additional risk relating to the management control procedures.
monitored using Contract Status Reports, Groups employees see page 53.
The Board has conducted a review of the which form part of the Contract Review Pack.
effectiveness of the Groups systems of These include programme margin metrics, riskmanagement and internal control which are reviewed regularly by the Executive P50 Principal risks processes, including financial, operational Committee and Board see page 20.
Project BAE Systems 48 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Report BOARD Overall responsibility for risk management Monitoring AUDIT COMMITTEE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE Operational Assurance Statement Risk Register Nonfinancial Risk Register Nonfinancial Risk Register Monitoring and reporting Monitoring and reporting Monitoring and reporting EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Operational Assurance Statement Risk Register Nonfinancial Risk Register Monitoring and reporting BUSINESSES Integrated Business Plan Core Business Process Annual long-term strategy and five-year plan for each business Operational Assurance Statement Mandated Policy Six-monthly management self-assessment of compliance with the Operational Framework and summary of key risks Chief Executives Business Review Core Business Process Quarterly top-level review of the key operational, financial and nonfinancial performance issues within the business, and signi cant forthcoming bids and events Quarterly Business Review Core Business Process Quarterly management review of the performance of each of the Groups businesses against their objectives, measures and milestones Lifecycle Management Contract Review Core Business Process Monthly management review of project performance and issues to ensure that appropriate decisions and actions are taken Monitoring and reporting BUSINESS RISK Risk Management Policy Mandated Policy 1.
ANALYSIS Financial and nonfinancial risks recorded Risks analysed for impact a nd probability in risk registers to determine g ross exposure 4.
EVALUATION Risk owners identi ed and action p lans implemented Risk exposure reviewed and risks prioritised Robust mitigation strategy subject to regular and rigorous review As fide ned in the Groups Operational Framework.
P58 Operational Framework BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 49
