Strategic Report Risks are identi ed as principal based on the likelihood of occurrence and the potential PRINCIPAL impact onthe Group.
The Groups principal risks are identi ed below, together with a RISKS description ofhow we mitigate those risks.
DEFENCE SPENDING The Group is dependent on defence spending.
Description Impact Mitigation In 2014, 93% of the Groups sales were Lower defence spending by the Groups major The business is geographically spread across defence-related.
customers could have a material adverse US, UK and international defence markets.
effect on the Groups future results and Defence spending by governments can The diverse product and services portfolio is financial condition.
uctuate depending on political marketed across a range of defence markets.
considerations, budgetary constraints, BAE Systems has a growing portfolio of speci c threats and movements in the commercial businesses, including commercial international oil price.
avionics and the commercial areas of the There have been constraints on government Applied Intelligence business.
Sales in expenditure in a number of the Groups commercial markets represented 7% of the principal markets, in particular in the US and Groups sales in 2014.
UK, and there is a risk that there may be In Saudi Arabia, regional tensions continue to further reductions.
dictate that defence remains a high priority.
With the Eurozone area experiencing financial dif culties, affordability continues tobe a key focus for customers.
GOVERNMENT CUSTOMERS The Groups largest customers are governments.
Description Impact Mitigation The Group has long-standing relationships Deterioration in the Groups principal Government customers have sophisticated and security arrangements with a number of government relationships resulting in the procurement and security organisations with its government customers, including its three failure to obtain contracts or expected funding which the Group can have long-standing largest customers, the governments of the appropriations, adverse changes in the terms relationships with well-established and UK, US and Saudi Arabia, and their agencies.
of its arrangements with those customers or understood terms of business.
It is important that these relationships and their agencies, or the termination of contracts In the event of a customer termination for arrangements are maintained.
could have a material adverse effect on the convenience, the Group would typically be Groups future results and financial condition.
In the defence and security industries, paid for work done and commitments made governments can typically modify contracts or at the time of termination.
terminate them at short notice.
Long-term US government contracts, for example, are funded annually and are subject to cancellation if funding appropriations for subsequent periods are not made.
The Groups performance on its contracts with some government customers is subject to financial audits and other reviews which can result in adjustments to prices and costs.
3. INTERNATIONAL MARKET The Group operates in an international market.
Description Impact Mitigation BAE Systems is an international company The occurrence of any such events could have The Group has a balanced portfolio of conducting business in a number of regions, a material adverse effect on the Groups businesses across a number of markets including the US and Middle East.
future results and financial condition.
The risks of operating in some countries The Groups policy is to hedge all material rm include: political changes impacting the transactional exposures.
business environment: economic downturns, political instability and civil disturbances: changes in government regulations and administrative policies: the imposition ofrestraints on the movement of capital: andthe introduction of burdensome taxes ortariffs.
The Group is exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates, particularly in respect of the US dollar, Euro and Saudi Riyal.
BAE Systems 50 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Report 4.
COMPETITION IN INTERNATIONAL MARKETS The Groups business is subject to signi cant competition in international markets.
Description Impact Mitigation The Groups business plan depends upon its The Groups business and future results may The Group has an international, multi-market ability to win and contract for high-quality new be adversely impacted if it is unable to presence, a balanced portfolio of businesses, programmes, an increasing number of which compete adequately and obtain new business leading capabilities and a track record of are expected to be in non-UK US markets.
in the markets in which it operates.
delivery on its commitments to its customers.
The Group is dependent upon UK and US The Group continues to invest in research and government support in relation to a number of development, and to reduce its cost base and its business opportunities in export markets.
improve ef ciencies, to remain competitive.
In the UK, export contracts are often structured on a  basis and government support can also involve military training, ministerial support for promotional activities and financial support through UK Export Finance.
In the US, most of the Groups defence export sales are delivered through the Foreign Military Sales process, under which the importing government contracts with the US government.
LAWS AND REGULATIONS The Group is subject to risk from a failure to comply with laws and regulations.
Description Impact Mitigation The Group operates in a highly-regulated Failure by the Group, or its sales BAE Systems has a well-established legal and environment across many jurisdictions and is representatives, marketing advisers or others regulatory compliance structure aimed at subject, without limitation, to regulations acting on its behalf, to comply with these ensuring adherence to regulatory relating to import-export controls, money regulations could result in fines and penalties requirements and identifying any restrictions laundering, false accounting, anti-bribery and and or the suspension or debarment of the that could adversely impact the Groups anti-boycott provisions.
It is important that Group from government contracts or the activities.
A programme is underway to the Group maintains a culture in which it suspension of the Groups export privileges, enhance resources dedicated to regulatory focuses on embedding responsible business which could have a material adverse effect on compliance.
Internal and external market risk Export restrictions could become more Reduced access to export markets could assessments form an important element of stringent and political factors or changing have a material adverse effect on the Groups ongoing corporate development and training international circumstances could result in future results and financial condition.
the Group being unable to obtain necessary A uniform global policy and process for the export licences.
appointment of advisers engaged in business development is in effect.
The special compliance of cer, appointed pursuant to commitments concerning ongoing regulatory compliance made in the course of the 2011 settlement with the US Department of State, concluded his monitorship in May 2014 and, at the invitation of BAE Systems, agreed to remain in a limited capacity for a limited further period of time.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 51 Strategic Report PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED 6.
CONTRACT RISK AND EXECUTION The Group has many contracts, including a small number of large contracts and xed-price contracts.
Description Impact Mitigation In 2014, 43% of the Groups sales were The inability of the Group to deliver on Contract-related risks and uncertainties generated by its 12 largest programmes.
itscontractual commitments, the loss, aremanaged under the Groups mandated At31 December 2014, the Group had expiration, suspension, cancellation or Lifecycle Management process.
sevenprogrammes with order backlog termination of any one of its large contracts A signi cant proportion of the Groups largest inexcess of1bn.
or its failure to anticipate technical problems contracts are with the UK Ministry of Defence.
or estimate accurately and control costs on A signi cant portion of the Groups revenue In the UK, development programmes are xed-price contracts could have a material isderived from xed-price contracts.
Actual normally contracted with appropriate levels adverse effect on the Groups future results costs may exceed the projected costs on ofrisk being initially held by the customer and and financial condition.
which the xed prices are agreed and, since contract structures are used to mitigate risk these contracts can extend over many years, on production programmes, including where it can be dif cult to predict the ultimate the customer and contractor share cost outturn costs.
savings and overruns against target prices.
It is important that the Group maintains a The Group has a well-balanced spread of culture in which it delivers on its projects programmes and signi cant order backlog within tight tolerances of quality, time and which provides forward visibility.
cost performance in a reliable, predictable The Group has limited exposure to xed-price and repeatable manner.
design and development activity which is in general more risk intensive than xed-price production activity.
Robust bid preparation and approvals processes are well established throughout the Group, with decisions required to be taken at the appropriate level in line with cleardelegations of authority.
CONTRACT CASH PROFILES The Group is dependent on the award timing and cash pro le of its contracts.
Description Impact Mitigation The Groups pro ts and cash ows are Amounts receivable under the Groups The Groups balance sheet continues to be dependent, to a signi cant extent, on the defence contracts can be substantial and, managed conservatively in line with its policy timing of, or failure to receive, award of therefore, the timing of, or failure to receive, to retain an investment grade credit rating defence contracts and the pro le of cash awards and associated cash advances and and to ensure operating exibility.
milestone payments could materially affect The Group monitors a rolling forecast of its the Groups pro ts and cash ows for the liquidity requirements to ensure that there is periods affected, thereby reducing cash suf cient cash to meet its operational needs available to meet the Groups cash allocation and maintain adequate headroom.
priorities, potentially resulting in the need to arrange external funding and impacting its investment grade credit rating.
PENSION FUNDING The Group has an aggregate funding fide cit in its fide ned bene t pension schemes.
Description Impact Mitigation In aggregate, there is an actuarial fide cit Further increases in pension scheme fide cits Following triennial funding valuations of the between the value of the projected liabilities may require the Group to increase the amount Groups UK pension schemes during 2014, of the Groups fide ned bene t pension of cash contributions payable to these where appropriate, revised fide cit recovery schemes and the assets they hold.
schemes, thereby reducing cash available to plans have been agreed which run until 2026. meet the Groups cash allocation priorities.
The fide cits may be adversely affected by Growth of the fide ned bene t pension changes in a number of factors, including liabilities is expected to be curtailed as, in the investment returns, long-term interest rate UK, new employees have been offered fide ned and price in ation expectations, and contribution bene ts since April 2012 and, in anticipated members longevity.
the US, with effect from January 2013, employees no longer accrue salary-related bene ts in fide ned bene t schemes.
In 2013, the trustees of a number of UK pension schemes entered into arrangements to insure against longevity risk for current pensioners, covering 4.4bn of liabilities, and, in 2014, 38% of BAE Systems Pension Scheme pensioners opted to exchange future increases on part of their pensions for higher non-increasing pensions.
BAE Systems 52 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Report 9.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SECURITY The Group could be negatively impacted by information technology security threats.
Description Impact Mitigation The security threats faced by the Group Failure to combat these risks effectively could The Group has a broad range of measures include threats to its information technology negatively impact the Groups reputation inplace, including appropriate tools and infrastructure, unlawful attempts to gain among its customers and the public, cause techniques, to monitor and mitigate this risk.
access to its proprietary or classi ed disruption to its business operations, and information and the potential for business could result in a negative impact on the disruptions associated with information Groups future results and financial condition.
PEOPLE The Groups strategy is dependent on its ability to recruit and retain people with appropriate talent and skills.
All employees are required to act in accordance with the Groups policies.
Description Impact Mitigation Delivery of the Groups strategy and business The loss of key employees or inability to The Group recognises that its employees are plan is dependent on its ability to compete to attract the appropriate people on a timely key to delivering its strategy and business recruit and retain people with appropriate basis, in particular to deliver the Groups plan, and focuses on developing the existing talent and skills, including those with strategy in international markets, could workforce and hiring talented people to meet innovative technological capabilities.
adversely impact its ability to meet the current and future requirements.
business plan and, accordingly, have a With constraints on defence spending in its The Group has well-established graduate negative impact on the Groups future UK and US markets, the Groups business recruitment and apprenticeship programmes resultsand financial condition.
plan is targeting an increasing level of and, in order to maximise the contribution business in international export markets.
It is that its workforce can make to the important that the Group recruits and retains performance of the business, has an management with the necessary international effective through-career capability skills and experience in the relevant development programme.
In order to seek to maximise its talent pool, It is important that all employees act in the Group is committed to creating a diverse accordance with the requirements of the and inclusive environment for its employees.
Groups policies, including the Code of BAE Systems continues to embed its ethics Conduct, at all times.
programme globally, driving the right behaviours by supporting employees in making ethical decisions and embedding responsible business practices.
Changes in principalrisks As a result of its assessment of the Groups principal risks referred to onpage 48, the Board has determined that the following risks, identi ed as principal risks in the 2013 Annual Report, while still risks forthe Group, are no longer considered tobeprincipal risks: 1.
THE GROUP IS DEPENDENT UPON COMPONENT AVAILABILITY, SUBCONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE AND KEY SUPPLIERS In the improving global economic environment, the Group has notidenti ed any speci c, material risks in relation to its strategically important subcontractors or suppliers.
THE ANTICIPATED BENEFITS OF ACQUISITIONS MAY NOT BE ACHIEVED The Group has not engaged in acquisitions other than bolt-on acquisitions in the last three years.
THE GROUP IS INVOLVED IN CONSORTIA, JOINT VENTURES AND EQUITY HOLDINGS WHERE IT DOESNOT HAVE CONTROL Whilst the Group has such joint ventures, the principal onesbeing Euro ghter, MBDA and AirAstana as referred to on page 125, itsrelationships with the joint venture partners are such that the risk of disagreement leading to failure to meet the strategic objectives of those joint ventures is not currently regarded as aprincipal risk to the Group.
Additional risks and uncertainties currently unknown to the Group, or which the Group currently deems immaterial, may also have anadverse effect on the business or financial condition of the Group.
