Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 31 PRINCIPAL RISKS The Group continues to develop risk management and internal control systems and procedures to manage the impact of risks and uncertainties both within and outside its control.
The Board believes that Balfour Beattys risk management and internal control systems will help it to identify such risks and respond in a timely manner.
The principal risks that could adversely impact the Groups profitability and ability to achieve its strategic objectives are set out below.
In addition, the Chief Financial Officers Review on page 17 includes discussion on financial risk factors and going concern.
HEALTH AND SAFETY IS PARAMOUNT TO EVERYTHING WE DO ACROSS OUR BUSINESS Health and safety No change to risk Risk description What impact it might have The Group works on significant, complex and potentially Failure to manage these risks could result in harm to, or even the hazardous projects which require continuous monitoring deathof, employees, subcontractor staff and members of the and management of health and safety risks.
public, as well as potential criminal prosecutions, debarment and reputational damage.
How the risk may manifest itself How it is mitigated Some common themes where health and safety risks have Balfour Beatty has detailed health and safety policies and arisen are recognised and communicated, including: procedures to minimise such risks.
These are reviewed and monitored by management and external verification bodies.
risk of poor risk identification assessment Each division has experienced health and safety professionals risk of not having processes that promote risk elimination who provide advice and support and undertake regular reviews.
ormitigation A Safety Executive committee meets regularly throughout the year failure to deliver management leadership to develop a consistent approach to health and safety best practice.
management of subcontractors not briefing people properly before setting them to work During 2014, business units continued their work on implementing failure to follow procedures the Groups Global Safety Principles across all of their operations debarment for safety failures and projects seepage 36. ongoing change programme and performance pressures, which may have an effect on our people and their ability to remain focused on health and safetyrisks.
KEY OPERATIONAL BUSINESS RISKS WE FACE AS PART OF OUR PROJECT LIFECYCLE Economic environment Decreased risk Risk description What impact it might have The effects of national or market trends, political change or new Any significant changes in the level or timing of customer spending developments in infrastructure expenditure or procurement may or investment plans could adversely impact the future order book.
cause customers to postpone, reduce or change existing or future Such changes could arise from changes in government policy or projects, which may impact the Groups strategy, business model, customers failure to secure financing for future projects or for revenue or profitability in the short or medium term.
future stages of existing projects.
Failure of a customer, including any government or public sector body, could result in not collecting amounts owed.
How the risk may manifest itself How it is mitigated The business may fail to anticipate or assess national or market The Groups strategy to focus on the more resilient and stable events anddevelopments, their potential negative impact, or infrastructure markets and geographies will help mitigate this risk.
Such events or developments, The effect of spending changes in any one market is mitigated by whether or not anticipated or correctly assessed, could leadto: the Groups broad exposure to infrastructure markets across the globe and the continued need for infrastructure spending.
It also cash pressures for customers and suppliers mitigates the effects of such market conditions by continuing wider than expected fluctuations in inflation to adapt its business model.
increased competition eg in the UK from other EU countries supply chain failure risk It is essential that the financial solvency and strength of reduced revenue or pressure on margins.
counterparties is always considered before contracts are signed and this is a specific focus in the current economic climate.
During These risks may also be triggered or exacerbated by the need, the life of a contract such assessments are updated and reviewed actual or perceived, to pursue work in a declining market.
The business also seeks to ensure that it is not over-reliant on any one counterparty.
com AR2014 32 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Bidding Increased risk Risk description What impact it might have Through its different divisions, Balfour Beatty seeks to win Failure to estimate accurately the risks, costs, time to complete, profitable work through a large number of bids.
In some cases impact of inflation and contractual terms and how best to manage it bids in joint venture with carefully selected partners, often to them could cause financial losses.
help manage or spread risks, especially where the Group wants In the event of disagreement with, failure of, or poor delivery to augment its expertise or knowledge of the relevant market.
performance by a joint venture partner, the Group could face The Group also invests in PPP and infrastructure investments, financial and reputational risks.
where success depends on a number of assumptions made, If any of the assumptions behind investment decisions prove at the time of investment, on future revenues and costs.
incorrect, the profitability of those investments could be reduced.
Balfour Beattys success depends on its ability to identify, price and execute the right volume and quality of bids to maintain a profitable, sustainable order book.
This in turn requires that it has a competitive business model and overheads.
How the risk may manifest itself How it is mitigated Unrealistic programme All bids are subject to rigorous estimating and tendering processes Incorrect pricing within the risk management framework.
Unrealistic assumptions on cost savings This revised framework comprises a number of approval and review Overambitious budgets gates that cover the business lifecycle from initial project pursuit Bidding at too low a margin through to completion see page 30.
Poor partner selection Customer credit and late payment risks The Group has defined delegated authority levels for approving all Partner and subcontractor performance and credit risks tenders and infrastructure investments.
Inability to make profit from non-PPP investments and Reviews are conducted following all tenders to ensure lessons are other new work types learnt and applied to future tenders.
Failure to ensure the Groups overhead structure remains competitive.
Before entering into a joint venture agreement the Group reviews the relevant skills, experience, resources and values of joint venture partners to understand how they complement its own.
Investment appraisals are performed and reviewed by experienced professionals.
The Group analyses the risks associated with revenues and costs and, where appropriate, establishes contractual and other riskmitigations.
Project execution Increased risk Risk description What impact it might have The Group works on complex design, engineering, construction Failure to manage or deliver against contracted customer and asset management projects.
If it fails to deliver them on requirements on time and to an appropriate quality could result in time, to customers requirements, and in accordance with its issues such as contract disputes, rejected claims, design issues, own cost assumptions and reporting, Balfour Beatty faces the liquidated damages, cost overruns or failure to achieve customer risk of financial loss, claims and reputational damage.
savings which in turn harm Balfour Beattys profitability and reputation.
Successful delivery of many of these projects depends on the successful implementation and maintenance of a range of Execution failure on a high-profile project could result in significant operational and commercial procedures and controls, backed reputational damage and costs.
up by appropriate training, clear accountabilities and oversight, accurate, realistic and timely reporting, and regular audit and review.
It also depends on the combined availability and effective management of subcontractors and other service providers.
Finally, it relies upon many complex, technical and commercial judgements and estimates regarding cost, value, progress and likely or practicable outcomes.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 33 Project execution continued How the risk may manifest itself How it is mitigated Unrealistic progress assessments It is essential that each business area has defined operating Overestimating the Groups ability to recover claims within procedures to address the risks inherent in project delivery.
In addition, the time frame or in the amounts estimated the revision of the Group risk management framework and increased Incomplete visibility and appreciation of scale of commercial controls aid identification and quantification of specific risks on judgements projects and the mitigating actions required.
Inaccurate, incomplete cost and value data or failure to This has been further reinforced through the implementation of analyse and report correctly, which could arise due to common minimum standards in project and commercial management.
poor training, lack of supervision, lack of accountability or a project managers or project team members fear Projects are subject to management, commercial function and internal of reporting bad news audit review at all levels to monitor progress and to review steps put in Inadequate experienced, independent challenge from support place to address specific risks identified on those projects.
The Group functions such as commercial, operations and finance.
also has public indemnity cover to provide further safeguards.
Balfour Beatty monitors the performance of joint ventures, joint venture partners, subcontractors and suppliers throughout the lifecycle of a project.
Supply chain No change to risk Risk description What impact it might have The Group is heavily reliant on its supply chain partners for Failure of a subcontractor or supplier would result in the Group successful operational delivery, which means it is also exposed to having to find a replacement or undertaking the task itself.
This a variety of risks in the supply chain, including financial, technical, could result in delays and additional costs.
The Group will be commercially as well as reputationally responsible for performance shortcomings by suppliers and subcontractors, whether in terms of quality, safety, technical or ethical standards.
Mistreatment of suppliers, subcontractors and their staff, or poor ethical standards in the supply chain, could lead to significant reputational harm for Balfour Beatty.
How the risk may manifest itself How it is mitigated Supply chain failure risk, exacerbated during, and when The Group aims to develop long-term relationships with key emerging from, tough economic conditions subcontractors, working closely with them to understand their A subcontractors failure to perform to an appropriate standard operations.
It develops contingency plans to address subcontractor and quality, which could cause project delays, reducing Balfour failure, and also obtains project retentions, bonds and or letters Beattys ability to meet contractual commitments and harming of credit from subcontractors, where appropriate to mitigate the its reputation impact of any insolvency.
Supply chain operating to lower standards safety, ethics, Balfour Beatty aims to work as much as possible with preferred quality, timber, child labour, forced labour suppliers and subcontractors who undergo rigorous, risk-based Failure to deliver targeted UK procurement savings prequalification processes and share its values.
It also aims to Failure to comply with Group supply agreements avoid becoming over-reliant on any one supplier or subcontractor.
Ethical treatment of the supply chain.
com AR2014 34 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED IMPORTANT RISKS WE FACE, COMMON TO MANY OTHER BUSINESSES People Increased risk Risk description What impact it might have Inability to recruit and retain the best management and employees Failure to recruit and retain appropriately skilled people could harm who have the appropriate competencies and also share Company the Groups ability to win or perform specific contracts and grow values and behaviours may hamper the Groups growth prospects.
How the risk may manifest itself How it is mitigated Failure to attract and retain skilled staff All potential recruits for key roles in the organisation are measured Distraction and impact on morale of change programmes against a competency and leadership framework.
Divisions and continued operational issues undertake organisation and people reviews to review the roles, Inability to successfully promote the right people through competencies, performance and potential of personnel.
The succession planning Groups succession planning process to identify and develop Commercial and project management quality performance high-potential personnel is reviewed regularly within the New staff unfamiliar with culture and procedures organisation and by the Board.
Balfour Beatty has appropriate Lack of a diverse workforce remuneration and incentive packages to help it attract and retain Bullying and harassment key employees seepage 37.
Loss of former staff with traditional bidding and executionskills.
Business conduct compliance Decreased risk Risk description What impact it might have The Group operates in various markets that present business Failure by the Group, or employees and third parties acting on conduct-related risks involving fraud, bribery or corruption, its behalf or in partnership, to observe the highest standards of whether by its own staff or via third parties such as partners or integrity and conduct could result in civil and or criminal penalties, subcontractors.
Those risks are higher in some countries and debarment and reputational damage seepage 38. sectors.
Overall the construction industry has a higher risk profile than other industries.
How the risk may manifest itself How it is mitigated Corruption Balfour Beatty has a proactive approach to assessing and Bribery addressing corruption risks.
It promotes compliance with its Code Fraud false claims of Conduct and in areas such as competition and false claims fraud.
Fair competition Each business area has a compliance officer responsible for the Human rights abuses, such as child and other labour application and monitoring of these programmes.
standards generally, illegal workers and human trafficking The risk of business conduct compliance breaches by third parties is Unethical treatment of and by the supply chain harder to control, but the Group has a range of risk assessment, due Other emerging ethical risks diligence and procurement controls that are designed to identify and Risk of ethics and values being compromised when times minimise such risks.
Balfour Beatty works with very few agents, are tough, not just in high-risk markets.
all of whom undergo a rigorous due diligence and approval process.
Legal and regulatory No change to risk Risk description What impact it might have The Group operates in diverse territories and its businesses are A breach of local laws and regulations could lead to legal subject to a variety of complex, demanding and evolving legal, proceedings, investigations or disputes resulting in business tax and regulatory requirements.
disruption ranging from additional project costs to potential debarment and reputational damage.
Increasingly, businesses are the target of cybercrime, which can result in loss of confidential, personal or commercial data, disruption to operations and associated costs.
Sometimes Balfour Beatty may be the target of statesponsored cyber activities purely because of its customer base.
How the risk may manifest itself How it is mitigated Data protection and privacy The Group monitors and responds to legal and regulatory Information security lapse developments in the territories in which it operates.
Local legal Cybercrime and regulatory frameworks are considered as part of any Group Government regulatory enquiry and enforcement actions decision to conduct business in a new country.
Data protection Local procurement laws and information security programmes are in place across the Group, Debarment or blacklisting.
and cybercrime and other information security risks are assessed on a regular basis.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 35 Sustainability No change to risk Risk description What impact it might have The Groups activities can impact the world, and the Failure to address these risks and to execute projects sustainably communities with which it comes into contact, either could result in significant potential liabilities, reputational damage positively oradversely.
and inability to win future work.
How the risk may manifest itself How it is mitigated Environmental incident The Groups sustainability strategy provides a framework for its Inaccurate greenhouse gas GHG data may mean the Group operating businesses to accommodate and embed sustainability is unaware of its actual impact into operations.
Sustainability issues such as climate change are Inaccurate GHG data and other data in sustainability reporting considered in risk management activities at divisional as well as may leave the Group exposed to unacceptable damage project level.
and fines Balfour Beattys internal audit processes are used to identify Unethical unsustainable sourcing eg timber, forced labour, potential risks and opportunities for the business.
These take the child labour form of sustainability audits and internal data assurance audits.
The Insufficient management support and monitoring to achieve Group also has external audits undertaken by third parties against the Groups agreed KPIs in this area.
its management systems that are in place to manage some of the aforementioned risks.
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are also externally assured seepage 39 to ensure that the data is correct.
Discontinued operations Increased risk Risk description What impact it might have The Group continuously reviews the markets and territories in A breach of local law and standards could lead to investigations, which it operates in order to make the best use of its resources.
disputes and prosecution with associated reputational damage and increased costs, which could impact adversely on Balfour Beattys It is essential that when the Group exits particular markets and continuing businesses.
territories through disposal or winding down its activities, it complies with all local regulations and laws, and ethical best practices and adheres to Balfour Beatty values.
How the risk may manifest itself How it is mitigated In disposing of businesses, the Group typically provides Experienced professionals, supported by external advisers, the purchaser with various indemnities which may expose manage disposal processes to ensure that the legal Balfour Beatty to future legal claims and cost as a result documentation covering disposals protects the Groups of indemnity breaches position as well as can be foreseen The Group may be required to enter transitional service Use of project management capabilities in managing any arrangements with the purchaser.
Such arrangements and transitional service arrangements and migration activities related migration activities could lead to future legal claims to ensure that risk exposure is tolerable and costs Where appropriate ensure there is a wind-down plan in place As the Group winds down activities in a particular market and that progress against this is appropriately overseen.
or territory there is the risk of losing business-critical staff andknowledge.
Balfour Beatty also faces significant risks and uncertainties that are common to many companies including financial and treasury risks, the management of pension liabilities, information security risks, business continuity and crisis management and hazard risks.
