30 RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK In 2014 the KPMG review summarised The Groups new risk framework There have been failures of on page 19, together with the Groups comprises eight approval and review risk management disciplines own analysis, identified what lay gates, spanning initial project pursuit in some parts of the business.
behind the unacceptable performance through to delivery and completion.
This resulting from poor contracts in the is a significant extension of the previous Managing risk and opportunity UK construction business.
All gates in a robust and disciplined way are mandatory and require approval at It was clear that the Groups existing risk is fundamental to the Boards Group, divisional or business unit level management framework did not, at times, ability to effectively manage depending upon the nature and complexity identify risk early enough to allow for of the project.
the business and the Groups remedial action.
The new risk framework has been further strategic development.
As a result, the Group examined its reinforced by the implementation of risk and opportunity management common minimum standards and policies activities throughout the business in project and commercial management lifecycle, from initial enquiry, tender across the Group.
These standards ensure submission and contract award through consistent expectations across the Group, to ongoing monitoring, control and and rigorous audit and assurance.
The principal risks, detailed overleaf, are: This corroborated the findings from KPMG and showed that the existing health and safety internal controls needed to be simplified economic environment and that there needed to be one unified bidding approach across the Group.
project execution supply chain A stronger approach has since been people developed and is being rolled out.
business conduct compliance legal and regulatory sustainability discontinued operations.
Managing risk and opportunity across the project lifecycle Project lifecycle Initial Contract Defects Tender Mobilisation Execution Commissioning enquiry negotiations liability Gate 1 Gate 2 Gate 3 Gate 4 Gate 5 Gate 6 Gate 7 Gate 8 Go No Go Go No Go Tender Contract PreMonitoring Project End of submission award commencement and control completion defects approval liability period Control and monitoring, delivered by Group division Project management and commercial management standards Audit and assurance processes capture lessons learnt at every stage of the project lifecycle and improve future projects Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
