Principal risks and uncertainties Through risk management and internal control systems the Group is able to identify, assess EFFECTIVE RISK and prioritise risk within the business and seeks to minimise, control and monitor their MANAGEMENT impact on profitability whilst maximising the opportunities they present The Board has overall responsibility for Group risk management.
It reviews principal RISK ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE risks and uncertainties regularly, together with the actions taken to mitigate them.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the BOARD assurance of the risk management process Overall responsibility for risk framework and the review of mitigating controls to the and internal control Audit Committee.
On-going review of their effectiveness Executive Directors together with senior Reports to Board management from every division and on its work corporate function of the business complete and conclusions a Group risk register.
Risks are considered AUDIT COMMITTEE in terms of their impact and likelihood Monitors and reviews risk and internal from both a financial and reputational control framework perspective.
Risks are assessed both gross Reports to Audit and net of mitigating controls.
Review Committee on its meetings are held to ensure consistency of findings and response and adequacy of grading.
Detailed SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM risk registers are reviewed bi-annually and recommendations Compiles Group risk register upon any material change in the business.
A full risk review is undertaken annually, at Considers and challenges mitigating controls which point it is also reviewed in detail by Calibrates and scores responses the Audit Committee with new or emerging risks considered by the Committee as appropriate.
This allows the Audit Committee to monitor the most important controls and prioritise risk management and internal audit activities accordingly.
RISK HEAT MAP Likelihood Low High 2014 Corporate risks 2013 Economic risks 2014 2013 Financing risks 2014 2013 Development risks 2014 2013 Concentration of investments 2014 2013 12 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements GROUP STRATEGY All of the principal risks and uncertainties have been mapped to the Groups six strategic priorities 1 2 3 4 5 6 STRONG CAPITAL STRATEGIC ACTIVE ASSET LAND ASSEMBLY SELECTIVE ENGAGEMENT WITH STRUCTURE INVESTMENTS AND MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING DEVELOPMENTS STAKEHOLDERS AND PARTNERSHIPS PARTICIPATION IN COMMUNITIES Set out below and on the following pages are the principal risks and uncertainties from across the business.
These are reective of where the Board has invested time during the year but are not exhaustive.
The Group monitors a number of additional risks and adjusts those considered principal as the risk prole of the business changes.
See also the risks inherent in the compilation of financial information, as disclosed within note 1 Principal Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements, Estimation and uncertainty.
Strategic priorities: 1 2 3 4 5 6 CORPORATE RISKS Impact: The Groups ability to maintain its reputation, revenue and value could be damaged by corporate risks Risk Impact potential Mitigation factors Responding to regulatory and legislative Reduced exibility and increased Sound governance and internal policies with challenges and changes.
appropriately skilled resource and support from external advisers as appropriate.
Responding to reputational, communication Reputational damage and Appointment of experienced individuals with clear and governance challenges.
Clear statements of corporate and social responsibility, skilled Executive and Non-executive Directors, with support from external advisers as appropriate.
Continuous stakeholder communication and consultation.
Inability to implement strategy or correctly Constraints on growth and Regular strategic reviews and monitoring of allocate capital.
Corporate level oversight of capital allocation.
Detailed capital planning and financial modelling.
Maintain adequate cash and available facilities together with conservative leverage.
Adequacy of partner evaluation and Reduced profitability, delay Appropriate due diligence, procurement management of agents and key suppliers.
Ineffective operation of shared Inability to execute business plan.
Appropriate governance structure and investment vehicles.
Risk associated with attracting and Inability to execute business plan.
Succession planning, performance evaluations, retaining staff.
training and development, long-term incentive rewards.
Sound systems and processes to effectively capture and manage employee information.
Failure to comply with health and safety Loss or injury to employees, Comprehensive health and safety procedures in legislation or other statutory regulations tenants or contractors and place across the Group and monitored regularly.
resultant reputational damage or External consultants undertake annual audits in all criminal prosecutions.
Safe working practices well established, including staff communication and training.
Adequate insurance is held to cover the risks inherent in construction projects.
Group structure brings heightened tax Competitive disadvantage.
Non-REIT status has a potential Lower returns.
Open and transparent engagement with HM competitive disadvantage when bidding for Revenue & Customs.
Failure of IT systems loss of data.
Lack of access to data restricting Disaster recovery plan in place including frequent ability to operate effectively.
Cyber crime compromises data security, websites and applications.
Loss of data and accessing of Extensive testing of security.
commercially sensitive data by Staff security training.
Further information on corporate risks can be found within the Financial Review on pages 38 to 43 and the Corporate Governance report on pages 56 to 60. www.
com 13 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Strategic priorities: ECONOMIC RISKS 1 2 3 5 Impact: Economic factors may threaten the Groups ability to meet its strategic objectives or return targets Risk Impact potential Mitigation factors Increased competition, changes in social Declining profitability.
Focus on prime assets and quality tenants behaviour or deteriorating profitability with initial assessment of credit risk and active ERV targets not achieved.
and confidence during a period of credit control.
Reduced rental income and or Diversity of tenant mix with limited exposure capital values.
Strategic focus on creating retail destinations and residential districts with unique attributes.
Decline in UK commercial or residential real Declining valuations.
estate market heightened by global macroRegular assessment of investment market economic conditions, currency uctuations or conditions including bi-annual external valuations.
Restricted availability of credit and higher tax Decline in demand for the Groups Regular monitoring of covenants with rates and macro-economic factors may lead to properties, declining valuations, headroom maintained.
reduced consumer spending and higher levels and reduced profitability.
Ability to monitor tenants on turnover leases.
Further information on economic risks can be found within the Financial Review on pages 38 to 43.
Strategic priorities: FINANCING RISKS 1 2 3 5 Impact: Reduced or limited availability of debt or equity finance may reduce the Groups profitability or threaten the Groups ability to meet its financial commitments or objectives and potentially to operate as a going concern Risk Impact potential Mitigation factors Decline in market conditions or a general rise Reduced financial and operational Maintain appropriate liquidity to cover in interest rates could impact the availability exibility and delay to works.
Target longer and staggered debt maturities to avoid renancing concentration and consideration of early renancing.
Derivative contracts to provide interest rate protection.
Development phasing to enable exibility and reduce financial exposure.
Reduced availability of equity capital.
Constrained growth, lost Maintain appropriate liquidity to cover opportunities, higher finance costs.
Target conservative overall leverage levels.
Further information on nancing risks can be found within the Financial Review on pages 38 to 43.
14 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic priorities: DEVELOPMENT RISKS 1 2 4 5 6 Impact: Inability to deliver against development plans Risk Impact potential Mitigation factors Unable to secure or implement planning Delayed implementation or Pre-application and continued consultation and consent due to political, legislative or other reduced development opportunity involvement with key stakeholders and risks inherent in the planning and with corresponding impact on landowners.
Engagement with relevant authorities at a local and Failure to demonstrate or implement viable national level to ensure development proposals are sustainable development due to legal, in accordance with current and emerging policy.
contractual, environmental, transportation, Project team of internal staff and external affordable housing or other technical factors consultants with capabilities across all relevant areas.
Technical studies with regular review.
Risk of change or delay due to Mayor of London or Secretary of State intervention or Responsive consultation with evidence judicial reviews.
Inability to gain the support based information.
Close monitoring and control over key dates Complexity of legal agreements including and triggering of obligations.
potential disputes relating to planning and land assembly for Earls Court Properties.
Adverse adjacent development schemes hinder execution of business plan.
Inability to acquire land, renegotiation of Inability to execute business plan.
Informed market valuation and open dialogue with use or vacant possession.
Failure to reach adjacent landowners.
Likely negative impact on agreement on land deals or implement land valuations and Groups returns or Earls Court Masterplan designed to allow phased deals with adjacent landowners on acceptable delay to works.
terms including risk of Section 34A of the Housing Act 1985 in relation to land subject Restricted optionality in delivery to CLSA.
Delay in construction or increase in costs e. g. Reduced profitability of Extensive consultation, design and technical due to market pricing, unforeseen site issues or development with corresponding work undertaken.
works around public transport infrastructure.
Properly tendered and negotiated processes to select Punitive cost, design or other implications.
reputable contractors with relevant experience in An inability to match supply to demand in projects of equivalent scale and complexity, with terms of product or price could result in missed skilled resources and appropriate insurance.
sales targets and or high levels of completed Commercially astute project team to ensure stock which in turn could impact on the management of costs and delivery of programme.
Groups ability to execute the business plan.
Further information on development risks can be found within the Operating Review on pages 18 to 37.
Strategic priorities: CONCENTRATION OF INVESTMENTS 3 4 5 6 Impact: Heightened exposure to events that threaten or disrupt central London Risk Impact potential Mitigation factors Events which damage or diminish Londons Loss or injury, business disruption Terrorist insurance in place.
status as a global financial, business and or damage to property.
tourist centre could affect the Groups ability Reduced rental income and or to let vacant space, reduce the value of the Health and safety policies and procedures in offices.
Groups properties and potentially disrupt Close liaison with police, National Counter Terrorism access or operations at the Groups head office.
Security Office NaCTSO and local authorities to Such events include threats to security or maximise safety of visitors to central London.
public safety due to terrorism, health concerns including a pandemic or changes to or failure of infrastructure.
Concentration of higher prole events in central London.
