PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THERE ARE A NUMBER OF POTENTIAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES which could have a material impact on the Groups performance and could cause the results to differ materially from expected or historical results.
The management and mitigation of these risks are the responsibility of the Board.
Risk Areas of impact Mitigation PROPERTY INVESTMENT RISKS Underperformance of investment Cash flow Senior management has detailed knowledge of core portfolio due to: Profitability markets and experience gained through many market Net asset value cycles.
This experience is supplemented by external Cyclical downturn in property market Banking covenants advisors and financial models used in capital allocation Inappropriate buy sell hold decisions decision-making.
Changes in supply of space Rental income The Groups property portfolio is diversified across four and or occupier demand Cash flow countries.
The weighted-average unexpired lease term is Vacancy rate 6.4 years and the Groups largest occupier concentration Void running costs is with the Government sector 46.8%.
Bad debts Net asset value Poor asset management Rental income Property teams proactively manage customers to ensure Cash flow changing needs are met, and review the current status of all Vacancy rate properties weekly.
Written reports are submitted monthly to Void running costs senior management on, inter alia, vacancies, lease expiry Property values profiles and progress on rent reviews.
Net asset value OTHER INVESTMENT RISKS Corporate bond investments: Net asset value In assessing potential investments, the Treasury Liquid resources department undertakes research on the bond and its Underperformance of portfolio issuer, seeks third-party advice, and receives legal advice Insolvency of bond issuer on the terms of the bond, where appropriate.
The Treasury department and Executive Directors receive updates on bond price movements and third party market analysis on a daily basis, and reports on corporate bonds to the full Board on a monthly basis.
The Executive Directors formally review the corporate bond strategy monthly.
DEVELOPMENT RISK Failure to secure planning Abortive costs Planning permission is sought only after engaging in depth permission Reputation with all stakeholders.
Contractor solvency and availability Reduced Only leading contractors are engaged.
Prior to appointment, development returns contractors are the subject of a due diligence check and Cost overruns assessed for financial viability.
Loss of rental revenue Downturn in investment or Net asset value Developments are undertaken only after an appropriate occupational markets Cash flow level of pre-lets have been sought.
Profitability 8 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts Risk Areas of impact Mitigation SUSTAINABILITY RISKS Increasing building regulation and Rental income, cash flow, Continual assessment of all properties against emerging obsolescence vacancy rate, net asset regulatory changes.
Fit-out and refurbishment projects value, profitability, liquid benchmarked against third party schemes.
resources Climate change Net asset value, Board responsibility for environment.
Dedicated specialist profitability, liquid personnel.
Increased due diligence when making resources acquisitions.
Investment in energy efficient plant and building mounted renewable energy systems.
Increasing energy costs and regulation Net asset value, Investment in energy efficient plant and building mounted profitability, liquid renewable energy systems.
resources FUNDING RISKS Unavailability of financing at Cost of borrowing The Group has a dedicated Treasury department and acceptable prices Ability to invest or relationships are maintained with some 23 banks, thus develop reducing credit and liquidity risk.
The exposure on refinancing debt is mitigated by the lack of concentration in maturities.
Adverse interest rate movements Cost of borrowing The Groups exposure to changes in prevailing market Cost of hedging rates is largely hedged on existing debt through interest rate swaps and caps, or by borrowing at fixed rates.
Breach of borrowing covenants Cost of borrowing Financial covenants are monitored by the Treasury department and regularly reported to the Board.
Foreign currency exposure Net asset value Property investments are partially funded in matching Profitability currency.
The difference between the value of the property and the amount of the financing is generally unhedged and monitored on an ongoing basis.
Financial counterparty credit risk Loss of deposits The Group has a dedicated Treasury department and Cost of rearranging relationships are maintained with some 23 banks, thus facilities reducing credit and liquidity risk.
The exposure on Incremental cost refinancing debt is mitigated by the lack of concentration of borrowing in maturities.
TAXATION RISK Increases in tax rates or changes to the Cash flow The Group monitors legislative proposals and consults basis of taxation Profitability external advisors to understand and mitigate the effects Net asset value of any such change.
POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC RISK Break-up of the Euro Net asset value Euro-denominated liquid resources are kept to a Profitability minimum.
Euro property assets are largely financed with euro borrowings.
Economic downturn Cash flow The Groups property portfolio is diversified across four Profitability countries.
The weighted-average unexpired lease term is Net asset value 6.4 years and the Groups largest customer concentration Banking covenants is with the Government sector 46.8%.
58.2% of rental income is subject to indexation.
GOING CONCERN The Group will not have adequate Pervasive The Directors regularly stress-test the business model to working capital to remain a going ensure the Group has adequate working capital.
concern for the next 12 months 9
