STRATEGIC REPORT Risk and risk management The Group is exposed to a number ofrisksand uncertainties which could haveamaterial impact on its long term development and performance and management of these risks is an integral part of the management of the Group.
Thetable below sets out the principal risksfaced by the Group and examples of relevant key controls and mitigating factors.
The Board considers these to be the most significant risks faced by the Group.
They donot comprise all the risks associated withthe Group and they are not set out inany orderof priority.
The successful management of risk is essential to enable us to deliver onits strategic priorities.
Whilst the ultimate responsibility for risk management rests with the Board, the foundation of effective day-to-day management of risk is in the way we do business and the culture of our team.
Our flat organisational structure ensures close involvement of senior management inall significant decisions.
Change in the year Increased risk Decreased risk No change R isk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary Market risk The UK housing market is highly cyclical and We carry out continual high level reviews During 2014 we have continued to acquire historically has been central to the strength of our markets to ensure we understand the accretive residential lettings businesses, of the UK economy.
Changes in volumes and opportunities they offer and review our products a further commercial consultancy business price are immediately realised in the results and services diversity and differentiation as part and jointly established a residential of the business, within both the Estate Agency of our distribution strategy.
For example, we property investment fund with Hermes.
division and also sales of complementary continue to strengthen the Lettings division These developments continue to increase services throughout other areas of the Group.
which, by its nature, is more stable and resilience of revenue streams and diversity counter-cyclical to the housing market.
An ongoing programme Increases in interest rates typically have of acquisitions is planned for the a negative impact on the UK residential forthcoming year.
Availability of mortgage financing The parts of our business that do not relate to We continue to review trends in market The recent negative trend in mortgage the prestige property market are particularly volumes and determine whether actions such approvals will impact transaction levels exposed to the level of mortgage approvals.
as cost base reduction measures are required.
in the first half of 2015 which, together with The number of mortgage approvals can be the potential uncertainty over the outcome affected by macro-economic factors: new of the general election in May, is likely to regulatory requirements: and changes in create some sluggishness in market trends lenders approval policies.
Loss of a major business partner or outsourcing partner There are a number of important commercial We centralised the team responsible for We continue to benefit from our strong relationships which affect more than one area liaising with key customers and developing relationships with our corporate partners and of the business.
Loss of key customers or new contracts.
The operating divisions we have retained, as well as won, a number contracts, or significant reduction in volumes carry out regular reviews with key customers.
of contracts with key clients.
We have been combined with pressure on fees, would have a We carry out regular reviews with key suppliers selected by Santander as one of its formal significant impact on our profitability.
The and operate appropriate contingency measures valuation partners from 1 January 2015.
This failure of a significant supplier could impair our in the event of supplier collapse.
comes following our appointment earlier in ability to operate effectively.
2014 as a key business partner on valuations for Barclays.
IT infrastructure and information security Dependence on efficient systems for There has been significant continual investment The transition of our IT infrastructure via operational performance and financial to support operational expansion and as part outsourcing to CGI has continued at pace information would be impacted by significant of the planned transformation and maintenance and in accordance with plan throughout failures or interruptions to IT services.
of operational systems and infrastructure.
Routine 2014 and into the first quarter of 2015.
In addition, data security is also essential penetration testing is also conducted The Information Security Steering to the secure processing, storage and in respect of data security.
Committee has met regularly throughout transmission of routine personal, the year in order to co-ordinate Information confidential and proprietary information, Security best practice and to ensure failure of which could lead to financial continuing accreditation within and reputational damage.
18 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Countrywide plc Board of directors Group Audit and Risk Governance and Performance Board Committee Information Security Group Risk & Group internal Divisional Boards Steering Committee Compliance Committee audit manager Compliance officers and FS Internal Group information Audit Committee security and risk manager Directors and employees Includes sales, operations, finance, procurement, IT, HR, etc.
First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence R isk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary Professional indemnity The previous downturn in the UK housing Monitoring arrangements include operational Our year-end review resulted in an exceptional market and impact of sub-prime lending controls implemented for review of surveyor charge of 15.2 million principally due to an exposed the group to a higher level of outputs and targeted use of Automated Valuation unexpected level of claims brought about professional insurance claims within the Models in perceived higher risk cases, as well as under common law outside of the primary Surveying Services division.
maintenance of risk management arrangements.
statutory limitation period together with a slight In respect of legacy issues, we continue to review deterioration of claims previously notified and the judgements and estimates underpinning an increase in the average loss per claim in the existing professional indemnity provision.
We continue to monitor developments in claims reporting.
Financial misstatement and fraud risk Financial misstatement may arise due to error or Embedded financial controls, incorporating Whilst the profile of inaccurate financial fraud, in the form of fraudulent financial reporting appropriate segregation of duties, operate within reporting has been raised recently, we have or misappropriation of assets.
Reputational the businesses to ensure robust preventative continued to monitor embedded controls damage, and inappropriate decision making and detective controls are in place.
Independent and independent management reviews data availability to management, may arise from financial reviews are undertaken within the across our divisions.
We ensure that non-fraudulent misstatement in financial reports operational divisions as an additional, high-level, where best practice developments emerge and financial loss to the Group may occur as a detective control.
These reviews are also these are shared within the Group and result of misappropriations.
supplemented by centralised monitoring of financial implementation plans are developed performance against budgets and operating targets.
In addition, we adopt recommendations arising from internal Misappropriation of funds is mitigated by centralised and external reviews.
treasury monitoring of all bank accounts, with embedded operational controls ensuring appropriate delegation of authority, restricted access to accounts and appropriate segregation of duties and mandated dual authorisation controls.
Regulatory compliance Failure to comply with legislation and Expertise within the operational divisions is also The new FCA regime and Mortgage Market regulatory requirements could result in supported by centralised legal and compliance Review have been assimilated within the reputational and financial damage, including teams who closely monitor existing business business in accordance with plans.
We continue withdrawal of authorisation licences for the practices and any reform proposals.
Employees to monitor regulatory developments across conduct of business streams.
Managers attend our divisions and develop implementation industry forums and government consultations.
plans accordingly and adopt recommendations Robust complaints management systems are in arising from external reviews.
place across all operating divisions.
Attracting, developing and retaining excellent people Our success depends on the services provided Remuneration policies are regularly reviewed to We have continued to strengthen our by, and experience of, our employees.
There ensure employees are appropriately incentivised.
leadership and development programme, is also substantial competition for qualified Succession planning and development of key scrutiny of people-related KPIs and related employees in an industry characterised by employees are also considered by the Board.
action plans to address these.
The second high levels of employee turnover.
Management reviews trends, including the My Countrywide survey has been views of leavers in exit interviews, and the views concluded during 2014, with a 69% of employees which are expressed in our annual response rate and a 4% increase in employee engagement surveys to develop action employee engagement levels to 71%.
