20 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Risk management approach Our risk management approach is designed to provide high levels of assurance that risks are identified and assessed in a clear and informed way.
Risk assessment Through our risk management processes The Board has overall responsibility and activities, clear decision-making is We assess risk across the Group using a for ensuring our risks are managed systematic risk management framework encouraged at all levels of the business as appropriately.
The Board Risk and to which risks we accept and how these are Figure 1 covering both external and Compliance Committee BRCC has internal factors.
delegated authority from the Board Our risk management work The impact and probability of risks are and regularly reviews the Groups risk determined and scored both gross before increasingly extends to delivering enhanced management approach and framework, performance by instituting stronger controls and net after controls, which the top risks, risk appetite and tolerances.
allows us to monitor the risk areas most processes and controls across the Groups During the year, actions have included: full range of activities.
A risk scoring integrating sustainability risks in to the matrix is used to ensure that a consistent Overall we continue to foster and overall risk management framework: embed a culture of risk management that approach is taken when assessing the overall impact to the Group.
Likelihood is is responsive, forward looking, consistent developing an assurance framework and and accountable.
based on the frequency of occurrence in a a supporting 3 Lines of Defence model: rolling 12 month period.
running training workshops with These risk scores are documented in senior managers: risk registers and maintained at project, business unit, divisional and Group levels.
further enhancing internal e-learning in They change as new risks emerge and key risk areas: Figure 1: Grainger Risk Management Framework existing risks diminish, so that the registers establishing a project office and detailed reflect the current threats.
protocols for the management of all RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Graingers Risk and Compliance change and transactional projects.
function drives the risk management process and challenges the risk findings and Grainger risk management policy reported controls.
The Risk and Compliance function is managed by the group general counsel as part of the Legal, Risk and Governance Group, which also includes People risks Market and strategy risk legal, health and safety and company Project assurance risk secretarial functions.
This group, along with Operational risk the executive directors, are closely involved Financial risk Legal and regulatory risk at critical stages in the process to review, IT risk challenge and debate the risks identified.
Sustainability risk A register of the top risks faced by the Group is produced through our bottom up and top down process.
Independent monitoring Risk based monitoring plan External verification Strategic report Governance Financials 21 PRINCIPAL RISKS TO THE GROUPS  The following overview of the principal risks STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES faced by Grainger are those deemed to be the most material to Graingers strategic, business and financial objectives in the 1 LEADERSHIP context of the current market conditions 2 RETURNS including an indication of those that may arise in the forthcoming year.
The risks are set 3 BALANCE out in accordance with Graingers strategic objectives.
The symbols indicate the direction 4 OPTIMISATION of movement of each risk in each period.
Primary strategic objective links Risk description Risk impact Mitigation 2013 2014 Deterioration and Market uncertainty may cause Reduced reliance on trading income: or instability of wider drop in housing demand: asset and Maintenance of financial 2, 4 global economic portfolio values fall: development headroom providing a cushion for markets risks increase: market adjustments: Subsequent financial Continuous review by Board.
Long term flat or Unattractive to external investors Maintain balance of income from sales, negative growth in and partners: rents and fees: 3, 4 the value of assets Poor shareholder returns.
Portfolios weighted towards areas of higher growth.
Failure to determine Value not maximised Active sustainability programme the expectations of Inability to attract or retain and targets: 1, 3, 4 our stakeholders and tenants, staff and or partners: Complaints process to learn from wider population Increased cost base: tenant concerns: customers, tenants, Reputational damage.
Tenant surveys: staff, partners and Staff surveys and shareholders management engagement: Values programme implemented in the year.
Lack of availability Reduced or severely limited ability Headroom maintained at agreed levels: of finance for the to take advantage of business Diversification of sources forms of 3, 4 Group to achieve its opportunities: unable to grow: Group finance: strategic objectives: unable to trade profitably.
Positive relationship management with Inability to obtain banks and other sources: sufficient funds either Gearing maintained within a range of through debt or 45% to 50%.
equity, at appropriate price and terms Failure to implement Suboptimal delivery of strategy: Medium term operational plan for changes required investment does not deliver delivery: comprehensive expert market 1, 2, 4 to deliver PRS expected returns: investor and analysis and product design.
objectives customer expectations not met.
Key The principal risks faced by the Group are: Significant High Increasing Neutral Emerging Low Reducing 22 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTINUED Primary strategic objective links Risk description Risk impact Mitigation 2013 2014 Failure to anticipate Reduction in market opportunities: Active networking with key policy and respond to impact on ability to finance influencers and relevant industry 1, 4 changes in legislation opportunities: up-front cost groups that lobby Government and or regulation that implications of building new policy makers: creates increased systems and approached to Specialist legal, compliance and and costly obligations meet obligations.
corporate affairs teams that monitor legislative, regulatory and consultation papers: Use external specialists to advise and maintain forward focus.
A significant health Harm to people tenants, Health and Safety compliance plan in and safety incident as employees, contractors or visitors: place to include asbestos, fire, gas, 1, 3, 4 a result of inadequate Possible legal action and or fine: electrical and water management: or inappropriately subsequent reputational damage.
All contractors are Gas safe registered: implemented Specific Health and Safety Director Health and Safety responsible for compliance procedures and monitoring plan: controls within Whistleblowing policy: Grainger or its Monitoring by senior management contractor supplier and Executive: base Regular reporting to the main Board.
Multiple concurrent Over extension of people Awareness by executives and operational and and resources: senior management: 1, 3 change projects Missed deadlines, increased costs: Oversight by Board Risk and Poor delivery performance.
Compliance Committee: Use of external expertise and resource to support where appropriate: Development of Grainger Project Office with clear project protocols and specific Project Management skills.
Failure to evolve Reduced ability to deliver to Succession plans are regularly reviewed: the business and stakeholder expectations: Management Development Training: 1, 2, develop our people to mismanagement: Retention policies in place for key staff: ensure we have the reduced control: Annual benchmarking of reward: necessary resource inability to grow market share Regular staff surveys: with the right skills of PRS.
3, 4 and behaviours to deliver our strategy Failure to maintain Increased costs: risk of regulatory High quality, competent IT team: adequate and secure action if data lost: Use of external specialist advisers 1, 4 IT infrastructure inability to report on performance where required: and systems to to the satisfaction of stakeholders: Availability and security overseen by appropriately reputational damage.
senior managers, executive and Board.
support the growth and strategy of the business Key The principal risks faced by the Group are: Significant High Increasing Neutral Emerging Low Reducing Strategic report Governance Financials 23 Risk response assurance across all activities where internal and external auditors and of any The executive is accountable to the appropriate.
The framework will also significant issues arising: Board for establishing and maintaining assist the Audit Committee and the BRCC Audit Committee review of accounting an appropriate system of internal control in determining the appropriateness of policies, assurance framework and the and for providing assurance to the Board this assurance work and the controls levels of delegated authority: and and its committees that it has done so.
the Board and the Audit Committee are All employees have responsibility for The Director of Health and Safety meets informed of material incidents including controls in their areas as part of their overall monthly with the group general counsel, any fraudulent activity or significant responsibility for achieving their objectives.
the finance director and the property whistleblowing event, and actions being The Legal Risk and Governance director to review and monitor all health taken to remedy any control weaknesses group manages the operational risk and safety processes and incidents.
The Board, through its own annual agenda management process and is made up of Any health and safety incidents are also plan and in approving those of the Audit highly experienced professionals in law, reported to the Board and the BRCC.
Committee and the BRCC, determines the risk, compliance and health and safety.
Complaints are recorded and dealt process for risk management and review This group provides advice, intervention with in accordance with a Group including the frequency and scope of all and incident response across the wider policy overseen by the Legal Risk and assurance reports and areas for particular business.
It also advises the BRCC and the Governance group and the complaints focus.
The Board, Audit Committee and executive in the determination of the nature register is reviewed by the BRCC.
BRCC agenda plans are designed to and extent of risks the Group is willing to The group general counsel reports on all ensure that all significant areas of actual take in achieving its strategic objectives.
known potential reputational risk matters and potential risk are reported on and We treat each risk in one of four ways: to the Board.
considered in the course of the year.
tolerate accept risk and take no Internal policies are written and refined further action : through a standing cross-functional Emerging risks and further developments treat reduce risk by completing committee at the direction of the BRCC.
The BRCC considers emerging risks at every appropriate actions to improve or The Group has a detailed business meeting and obtains regular reports on implement controls : continuity plan in place, supported by these.
The Board also reviews emerging transfer share or remove risk by partial or a cross-functional senior management risk, particularly in the context of the whole transfer to a third party : committee empowered to make Groups strategic objectives and wider remove avoid risk by ceasing or decisions in the event of a potentially political, legal and economic factors.
altering the activities giving rise to the disruptive major incident.
This committee In the coming year we intend to maintain risk occurring.
meets twice yearly to review policies and extend our risk management focus and test readiness to deal with a major In addition to the detailed risk mapping including by: incident.
These plans have performed process and assessment outlined above, further refining our risk scoring matrix well in real and simulated incidents which there are a wide range of risk controls in and risk appetite tolerances: have occurred to date.
place, including but not limited to: developing the application of the The effectiveness of the internal control All change and transactional projects assurance framework to enhance controls systems is challenged through the following are run within a project framework at all levels of assurance: regular reviews: overseen by a dedicated project office.
developing the project framework discussion and approval by the This framework incorporates continuous protocols to further enhance risk Board of the Company strategy, risk assessment of each project through analysis in a number of areas, including plans and objectives and the risks to a log capturing risk, assumptions, issues resourcing and other non-financial risks.
The BRCC also approval by the Board of budgets reviews all significant projects and the and forecasts project portfolio board reports.
key project risks are reviewed by An assurance framework has been the BRCC: introduced approved and reviewed by the BRCC approves all Group policies: the Audit Committee to facilitate and complaint trends are overseen by structure improved assurance activities the BRCC: and reporting.
The Legal Risk and oversight by the Audit Committee of Governance group will work with this the scope and results of the work of framework to provide oversight and
