About Us 01 05 29 Strategic Report 06 35 Governance 36 69 Risk Management Accounts 70 98 Other Information 99 112 Process Bellway has a long-established Produced from this comprehensive system for identifying, monitoring and register is a shorter register of principal managing risk.
It is the responsibility of risks, specifically reserved for review management to implement the Boards by the Board.
This is mainly, but not policies on risk and control.
In fulfilling exclusively, comprised of risks, after its responsibility, management identifies mitigation, above a certain threshold.
and evaluates the risks faced by the This register is reviewed by the Board Group for consideration by the Board throughout the year, with the Board and designs, operates and monitors systematically considering the risks, the system of internal control, which taking into account any changes implements the policies adopted by which may have been recommended the Board.
In addition, all employees by management in relation to the have some responsibility for monitoring comprehensive register.
risk as part of their responsibility for Once a year, the Board reviews achieving objectives.
both registers in full to ensure that Management maintains a the system of risk assessment comprehensive risk assessment and the management thereof is register which details all significant operating effectively.
risks pertinent to the Group, including As a result of the regular reviews, operational, financial, compliance changes required in the control and strategic risks.
This register is environment are implemented by reviewed on a regular basis as part of management to ensure, as far as the management reporting process by possible, that the Groups risks are either the functional heads within the Group, eliminated or mitigated.
who each review their own particular More information on risk management area of operation.
As a result of these and internal control is included within reviews, the assessment of each risk the Audit Committee Report on is monitored and where necessary pages42 to 44. updated using a scoring system which seeks to assess the likelihood, the financial effect and what controls are in place to mitigate the effects of the relevant risks.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014
