Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements Risks and uncertainties facing the business Identifying and managing our risks Roles and responsibilities The Board is responsible for our system of risk management The Board regularly reviews the Groups key risks and is supported and internal control.
Risk is a recognised part of the Groups in the discharge of this responsibility by various committees, everyday activities.
Risk is assessed across the Group using specifically the plc Audit Committee and the Group Risk Committee.
a systematic risk management model covering both external and internal factors and the potential impact and likelihood of The risk management roles and responsibilities of the Board, occurrence of those risks.
Risk assessments are incorporated its Committees, and business management are set out below.
into risk registers at Group and individual business level, which evolve to reflect the reduction increase in identified risks and 1. plc Board the emergence of new risks.
The Board determines the Groups Responsibilities appetite for risk in pursuit of strategic objectives, and the level of Responsible for the Groups systems of risk management risk that can be taken by the Group and its operating companies and internal control without specific Board approval.
The Groups Risk and Internal Determine Group appetite for risk in achieving its Audit team drives the risk assessment process with Group and strategic objectives business unit management and challenges risk findings and plc Audit Committee the internal control framework to ensure that this remains Supports the Board through monitoring risk and reviewing appropriate.
Group policies and delegated authority levels set the effectiveness of Group internal controls, including systems by the Board provide the means by which risks are reviewed to identify, assess, manage and monitor risks and escalated to the appropriate level within the Group, up to and including the Board, for review and confirmation.
Actions Receive regular reports on internal and external audit and We have a clear framework for identifying and managing risk, other assurance activities both at an operational and strategic level.
Our risk identification Receive regular risk updates from subsidiaries and functions and mitigation processes have been designed to be responsive Determine the nature and extent of the principal Group risks to the ever-changing environments in which we operate.
and assess the effectiveness of mitigating actions Annually review the effectiveness of risk management and The following chart summarises our business risk internal control systems management structure.
Approve Group Policies including the Group risk management policy plc Board Review and confirmation 2.
Group Executive Board Review and confirmation by the Board Responsibilities Strategic leadership of the Group Responsible for ensuring that the Groups risk management and other policies are implemented and embedded Ensure appropriate actions are taken to manage strategic plc Audit Committee Process Risks and mitigation reviewed by risks and key risks arising within the risk appetite of the Board Audit Committee after validation Group Risk Committee by the Group Risk Committee and Review by Group management of Group and subsidiary Executive Boards risks and effectiveness of risk management processes Group Executive Board Actions Review of risk management and assurance activities and processes Monthly quarterly finance and performance reviews Ongoing review and control Group Risk Committee 3.
Executive Committees There is ongoing review of the risks and the controls in place Responsibilities to mitigate these risks Responsible for risk management and internal control systems within their regions Monitoring the discharge of their responsibilities by Executive Committees operating companies Actions Review key risks and mitigation plans Review results of assurance activities Group Risk Review and assessment Escalate key risks to Group management and Group Group Director of Risk & Internal Executive or plc Boards Audit consolidates the operating companies, functional and Group risks to compile the 4.
Heads of the Group functions and operating companies Groups key risks Heads of Group Heads of Responsibilities functions operating Maintain an effective system of risk management and companies internal control within their function operating company Key risks: Key risks: Actions Heads of Group Heads of Regularly review operational, project, functional and strategic risks functions identify operating the key risks companies create Review mitigation plans and develop a register of their Plan, execute and report on assurance activities as mitigation actions top risks and required by region or Group mitigation actions Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 23 Risks and uncertainties facing the business continued Principal risks In summary, our principal risks are: The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the 1.
Achieving the right market positioning in principal risks facing the Company including those that would response to the needs of our clients threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or 2.
Economic country and currency risks liquidity.
Our consideration of the key risks and uncertainties 3.
Recruitment and retention of high-calibre staff relating to the Groups operations, along with their potential 4.
Reputational and brand risk impact and the mitigations in place, is set out below.
Legal risk possible to mitigate fully all of our risks and there may be other 6.
Failure or significant interruption to our IT systems risks and uncertainties besides those listed below which may causing disruption to client service also adversely affect the Group and its performance.
Conduct risk can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 45 to 48.
Changes in the regulatory environment Key risk 1: Achieving the right market positioning in response to the needs of our clients Strategic objective: B usiness diversification Change Strength in residential and commercial markets from 2013 Geographical diversification Commitment to clients Description Mitigation The markets in which we operate remain highly competitive.
To remain competitive in all markets, we continue to promote Competition could lead to a reduction in market share and or a and differentiate our strengths whilst focusing on providing decline in revenue.
Our focus is on both retaining existing clients the quality of client care and service that our clients require.
as well as on engaging with new clients by ensuring that our We continue to invest in the development of client relationships service offering continuously evolves and improves to meet the globally and associated systems to support our client changing needs of those clients.
Key risk 2: Economic country and currency risks Strategic objective: Geographic diversification Change Financial strength from 2013 Description Mitigation Global market conditions remain volatile, with economic The strength of Savills business and brand and our continuous uncertainty in certain of our sectors and markets particularly focus on client service and relationships helps to mitigate this risk.
Singapore and Hong Kong China where government cooling measures may continue to have an impact.
Group earnings Our strategy of diversifying our service offering and geographic and or our financial condition could be adversely affected by spread mitigates the impact on the business of weak market these macroeconomic uncertainties.
Savills operates in a large conditions in specific geographies, but these factors cannot number of countries which increases the risk that we will be entirely mitigate the overall risk to earnings.
To reduce the affected by geopolitical and or economic uncertainties potential impact of these risks, we continually focus on our associated with doing business in those jurisdictions.
cost base and seek to improve operational efficiencies.
Our continual monitoring of market conditions and review of market changes against our Group strategy, supported by the regular reforecasting and reporting undertaken by all of our businesses, remain key to our ability to respond rapidly to changes in our operating environment.
Our exposure to countries with economies which are currently weak is balanced by our business in other more stable markets.
When considering entry into a new market we undertake due diligence to assess the impact of any political or economic issues in that particular country.
We recognise that there is a currency risk attached to operating in a large number of countries, particularly given the transactional element of our business.
We minimise the risk as far as possible in local operations through natural hedging, ensuring that revenue and costs are managed in the same local currency.
24 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements Key risk 3: Recruitment and retention of high-calibre staff Strategic objective: F inancial strength Change Commitment to clients from 2013 Description Mitigation We recognise that our ability to deliver our strategy is dependent We continue to invest in the development of our people and on us attracting, developing, motivating and retaining people of extend our training and development programmes across a the highest quality.
This is fundamental to the future success of number of businesses.
Our partnership style culture and profit sharing approach to remuneration is combined with selective use of share-based and other rewards to incentivise our people to perform over the longer term and to remain with the business.
Team scorecards and individual appraisals ensure that rewards are based on personal and team performance, improvements in client service, business development, people management as well as financial performance.
Leadership and management programmes are designed to meet the succession needs of our business.
Key risk 4: Reputational and brand risk Strategic objective: S trength in residential and commercial markets Change Commitment to clients from 2013 Description Mitigation Savills is a brand with an excellent reputation in the markets We recognise that our brand strength is vital to maintaining in which we operate.
We recognise the need to maintain this market share in established markets and expanding into new reputation by ensuring the quality of the service we provide.
To this end, we have a brand management programme in place to ensure the brands positioning and identity is clearly Social media can have an immediate and potentially detrimental and consistently promoted.
Our social media policy is supported impact on our brand.
by guidance and training as well as ongoing monitoring.
We recognise that the quality of the service we offer is vital to maintaining the brand and we have in place policies, controls and processes to monitor the quality of our client service to support our programme of continuous improvement.
Key risk 5: Legal risk Strategic objective: F inancial strength Change Commitment to clients from 2013 Description Mitigation Failure to fulfil our legal or contractual obligations to clients The Group has legal and regulatory compliance policies and could subject the Group to action and or claims from clients.
Best Practice groups which are designed to mitigate against The adverse outcome of such actions claims could negatively the risk of such actions claims being made and where such impact our reputation, financial condition and or the results of claims occur, to limit liability, particularly in relation to our businesses.
For example: consultancy services such as Valuations.
Such policies are regularly reviewed.
in accepting client engagements, Group companies may be subject to duty of care obligations.
Failure to satisfy these The Group maintains professional indemnity insurance to obligations could result in claims being made against the respond to and mitigate the Groups financial exposure to relevant operating company: such claims.
in our Property Management business, we may assume responsibility for appointing and or supervising third party As described below, our strong emphasis on appropriate contractors that provide construction and engineering services business conduct by all our employees, contractors and for our managed properties.
Again, failure to discharge these associates provides further mitigation to this risk.
responsibilities in accordance with our obligations could result in claims being made against the operating companies: in our Valuation Consultancy businesses, we can be subject to claims alleging the over-valuation of properties.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 25 Risks and uncertainties facing the business continued Key risk 6: Failure or significant interruption to our IT systems causing disruption to client service Strategic objective: F inancial strength Change Commitment to clients from 2013 Description Mitigation Major failures in our IT systems may result in client service being Specific back-up and resilience requirements are built into interrupted or data being lost corrupted causing damage to our our systems.
Our critical infrastructure is set up so far as is reputation and consequential client and or revenue loss.
reasonably practical to prevent unauthorised access and reduce the likelihood and impact of a successful attack.
There is a risk that an attack on our infrastructure by a malicious individual or group could be successful and Business continuity and disaster recovery plans are in place impact the availability of critical systems.
to cover the residual risks that cannot be mitigated.
Our data centres are accredited to international information security standards.
Key risk 7: Business conduct Strategic objective: Business diversification Geographical diversification Change Commitment to clients from 2013 Description Mitigation We operate in various international markets that may present We have programmes to promote compliance with our Code of business conduct related risks involving, for example, fraud, Conduct, particularly in areas of higher risk such as procurement, bribery or corruption.
which is designed to address such risks.
Failure by the Group and its employees to observe the highest We adopt a zero tolerance approach to breaches of our standards of integrity and conduct in dealing with clients, suppliers Code of Conduct.
and other stakeholders could result in civil and or criminal penalties, regulatory sanction, debarring and or reputational damage.
Key risk 8: Changes in the regulatory environment Strategic objective: C ommitment to clients Change from 2013 Description Mitigation We are required to meet a broad range of regulatory compliance Our Group Policy Framework, which sets out our standards requirements in each of the markets in which we operate.
regarding professional, regulatory, statutory compliance and For example: business conduct, is subject to regular review.
in many jurisdictions e. g. China we operate under strict To support this Framework each of our businesses has its own licences, which are subject to periodic review: regulatory and statutory compliance resources who monitor in the UK, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA regulates regulatory developments and maintain the internal processes the conduct of Savills Capital Advisors and, both generally and controls required to fulfil our compliance obligations.
and in relation to the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, Cordea Savills Investment Management, and the Our compliance environment, at all levels, is subject to regular insurance intermediary services provided to clients by Savills review by internal audit and external assurance providers.
UK: our businesses are regulated by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS : Cordea Savills entities are variously regulated by the Bank of Italy, BaFin in Germany and CSSF in Luxembourg: various countries, corporate entities and individuals are subject to financial sanctions, which require continuous monitoring in response to global events.
Failure to satisfy regulatory compliance requirements may result in fines being imposed, adverse publicity, brand reputation damage and ultimately the withdrawal of regulatory approvals.
We also have a number of key statutory obligations including the protection of the health, safety and welfare of our staff and others affected by our activities.
Recent environmental reporting requirements place additional data gathering responsibilities on our business in common with other listed companies.
26 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014
