Strategic Report OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS Strategic objective Risk and potential impact Mitigation Market economic changes such Regional spread and portfolio diversity mitigates sector or We choose to operate only in the UK, which is subject to relatively low risk and low returns from a SECURE as higher interest rates, reduced location-specific risks.
stable and mature, albeit cyclical, economy and property market.
By involvement with all sectors of EXCELLENT demand for land new properties, that economy and property market, we are as diversified as possible, without venturing overseas.
Active portfolio management achieves a better than reduced availability of credit and Our land bank of 5,900 acres provides us with the flexibility to move with market demands and market utilisation of assets.
RETURNS declining investment yields restrict pursue those opportunities that generate the greatest value at any one time.
The 2015 UK General Hedging policy reduces interest rate risk.
business development and cause Election has the potential to impact the appeal and performance of investment in the UK in general Investment and financing strategy is determined against a valuation falls.
Significant upcoming and real estate in particular, both through the related uncertainty and resultant implementation of backdrop of potential outcomes of political events.
political events which delay and or policies and regulation.
impact investment decisions and Over the course of the last year, the continuing economic problems within the Eurozone mean that reduce returns.
the overall market position continues to represent a risk.
Changes to local and national Use of high-quality professional advisors.
Our daily exposure to all aspects of the planning process, and internal procedures for sharing best planning processes adversely practice, ensure we remain abreast of most developments.
Furthermore, we continue our efforts to Active involvement in public consultation.
impacts our strategy by limiting our influence public policy debate.
Although the imminent General Election means that future rules are Constant monitoring of all aspects of theplanning process ability to secure viable permissions uncertain, our expertise should enable us to prosper relative to our competitors, irrespective of the by experienced in-houseexperts.
and or by removing our competitive planning environment.
Lobbying to contact with both central advantage.
Inadequate due diligence on major Acquisitions, development and ultimate disposals are Our programme for the year has been completed on time and within budget.
Our contractor new schemes, programme reviewed and financially appraised in detail, with clearly selection and management processes are rigorous: we continue to favour financially stable management, construction defined authority limits.
androbust contractors and are mindful of contractors cash flows becoming stretched in a delivery and or procurement risingmarket.
Strong internal construction management team.
leads to unforeseen exposures, Clearly defined formal tender process that evaluates quality issues and or cost overruns qualitative and quantitative factors inbid assessment.
causing customer dissatisfaction Use and close supervision of a preferred supplychain of and or financialloss.
high-quality trusted suppliers and professionals.
Financial collapse of, or dispute Monthly review of performance to identify if senior Our key partners are Persimmon PLC, VINCI plc and Salhia Real Estate K. S. C. of Kuwait.
with, a key joint venture partner management intervention is required.
Thesearefinancially strong partners with good prospects and considerable financial resources.
We maintain detailed and ongoing dialogue and have exited from any arrangements with financially Flexible but legally secure contracts withpartners.
weaker partners, so the overall risk continues to reduce year-on-year.
Fewer but financially strong partners.
Failure to manage long-term Use of high-quality external advisors.
We are willing to accept a degree of environmental risk, enabling higher returns to be made.
THROUGH A environmental issues relating to The inherent risks are passed on or minimised where possible but cannot be eliminated, Highly qualified, experienced staff and proven track record FOCUS ON brownfield and contaminated sites although the residual risks have been acceptably low in recent years.
as the UKs leading regeneration specialist.
leads to a major environmental Risk assessments conducted as part of due diligence LONG-TERM incident, resulting in financial and or process, with contamination remediated following SIGNIFICANT reputational damage.
acquisition and cost plans allowing for unforeseen remediation costs.
ADDED VALUE Full warranties from professional consultants and remediation contractors.
Defined business processes to proactively manage issues.
Annual independent audit of environmental risk.
Reputation managed by a core team of skilled PR professionals.
Failure to recruit, develop and Succession planning monitored at Board level and below.
Our succession planning was put into action during the year with the promotion of Stephen Prosser retain staff with the necessary skills as Midlands Regional Director and the appointments of Richard Bannister, Steven Knowles, Targeted recruitment with competitive, performanceresulting in significant disruption Richard Powell and Andy Taylor to the Property Board.
Staff turnover remains low and the driven remuneration packages to secure highly-skilled and loss of intellectual property.
proportion of management with more than three years service is now at 84%.
As competition to motivated employees.
attract the best people increases, we continue to adapt our recruitment strategy to source the skills Leadership and management development plans in place.
that will support the Companys long-term business objectives.
Key information is documented to safeguard knowledge.
40 St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 Strategic Report 0143 Financial Statements 4485 Additional Information 86 Key: Risk exposure increased Risk exposure reduced No significant change in risk exposure Movement in Commentary theyear Market economic changes such Regional spread and portfolio diversity mitigates sector or We choose to operate only in the UK, which is subject to relatively low risk and low returns from a SECURE as higher interest rates, reduced location-specific risks.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 41 Strategic Report OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS continued Strategic objective Risk and potential impact Mitigation Availability of funding reduces, Recurring income from rents provides funding for a large Our geared financial structure means that there are inevitable risks attached to the availability of WHILE causing a lack of liquidity that percentage of overhead and interest costs.
funding and the management of fluctuations in our cash flows.
Our prudent approach to forward PROTECTING impacts borrowing capacity and commitments, speculative development and asset disposals has enabled us to optimise Strong relationships with key banks: all corporate debt reduces the saleability of assets.
operational cash flows and offset the impact of fluctuating market conditions.
Over the last year we refinanced until at least 2018.
OURASSETS Unforeseen significant changes successfully launched a 100m convertible bond and have refinanced the debt portfolio, extending Finance successfully raised through alternative, unsecured tocash flow requirements the weighted average life to 4.6 years 2013: 2.5 years and reducing the weighted average cost of means retail bond, equity placing and convertible bond.
e. g. operating cost increases, debt to 4.8% 2013: 5.6%.
Financial headroom maintained to provide flexibility and pension fund shortfall which limit scenario modelling tools employed to evaluate the the ability of the business to meet likelihood of a breach of financing covenant limits.
Regular and detailed cash flow forecasting enables monitoring of performance and management of future cash flows.
Failure to anticipate market Regional offices in touch with their local market.
The excellent reputation and financial capacity of the Company has enabled us to continue to win changes through poor market schemes and grow the property portfolio in an improving but still challenging market and economy.
Dedicated central resource supporting regional teams.
intelligence leads to the selection In this environment, with a reduced number of active competitors, we expect to be able to continue Flexible and innovative approach to acquisitions and ofinappropriate and, ultimately, to source attractive acquisitions.
schemes in order to adapt to market changes.
Acquisitions, development and ultimate disposals are reviewed and financially appraised in detail, with clearly defined authority limits.
Failure to identify a pipeline of future Team of professionals with residential experience Whilst the planning environment remains challenging and subject to inevitable delays, our scale and residential sites or reduced andexpertise.
expertise enables us to navigate the process with considerable success.
Demand for new homes availability of mortgage finance remains strong, supported by the NPPFs housing supply requirements and the availability of Extensive land bank with a continuing stream of adversely impacts the performance mortgage finance due at least in part to the Governments Help to Buy scheme.
geographic spread of our business means we are not overly exposed to any one region.
Flexible approach to mortgage financing e. g. shared equity schemes.
Use of joint venture partners with residential expertise e. g. Persimmon.
Safety, health and environment Use of high-quality external SHE advisors.
Health and safety continues to be a high priority.
The assessment of environmental costs and the SHE culture leads to a major subsequent optimising of remediation solutions is an integral part of our acquisition and postAnnual cycle of SHE audits.
incident e. g. serious injury to, or acquisition processes.
We seek to minimise or pass on any such environmental risks, and believe SHE Steering Group chaired by the Group death of, an employee, client, that the residual risk remains acceptably low.
In other social and ethical areas, our operations are ConstructionDirector.
contractor or member of the public underpinned by a simple but rigorous set of operating commitments.
or non-compliance with legislation, Programme of employee training specific to roles resulting in financial penalties and or andresponsibilities.
Inadequate security or business Asset risk assessments e. g. security, environmental, Whilst our exposure to the loss of intellectual property is relatively low, we are mindful of the continuity and disaster recovery health and safety.
increasing threat to corporate security from cyber-crime.
As the profile of cyber-security continues planning for operations and IT, to grow, our risk management approach has adapted to further increase preventative security and Documented disaster recovery and crisis management leading to significant business enhance the robustness of existing procedures.
plans in place across the business.
disruption, financial intellectual Dedicated IT team monitors security and performance of property loss and or reputational all information systems.
damage in the event of an accident, Comprehensive insurance arrangements.
act of terrorism or cyber-crime.
42 St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 Strategic Report 0143 Financial Statements 4485 Additional Information 86 Key: Risk exposure increased Risk exposure reduced No significant change in risk exposure Movement in Commentary theyear Availability of funding reduces, Recurring income from rents provides funding for a large Our geared financial structure means that there are inevitable risks attached to the availability of WHILE causing a lack of liquidity that percentage of overhead and interest costs.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 43
