Strategic Report RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL OUR APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT The Board recognises the importance of identifying and actively At St. Modwen, assessment of risk is a cornerstone of our monitoring the full range of financial and non-financial risks strategy and our risk management framework is fundamental facing the business.
Its policy is to have systems in place which to its delivery.
Our integrated approach combines a topoptimise the Companys ability to manage risk in an effective down strategic view with a complementary bottom-up and appropriate manner.
By regularly reviewing the risk appetite operational process.
of the business, the Board ensures that the risk exposure The top-down approach involves a review of the external remains appropriate at any point in the cycle.
environment in which we operate, to guide an assessment of Importantly the Board perceives risk not only as having a the risks which we are comfortable exposing the business to potential negative influence on the business but also as an in pursuit of our strategy.
The bottom-up process involves the opportunity that can be a source of financial outperformance identification, management and monitoring of risks in each area as we have the expertise to take and manage risks that others of our business to ensure that risk management is embedded cannot.
As the UKs leading regeneration specialist, exposure in our everyday operations.
Control of this process is provided to risk is inherent in our business but is subject to extensive through maintenance of regional risk registers.
ensures that operational risks are fully considered in determining the risk appetite and corresponding strategy of the business.
The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems and for determining Key features of St. Modwens risk management and the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take internal control system: to achieve its strategic objectives.
Management assesses an organisational structure with clear segregation of duties, and the Audit Committee reviews the principal risks facing the control and authority: Company, including those that would threaten its solvency or a robust system of financial reporting, budgeting and liquidity.
Their evaluation of these solvency risks is described re-forecasting processes: further in the Going Concern section on page 104 of the Annual Report 2014 and a description of how these risks are managed monthly operational reviews between the Chief Executive and mitigated is included in the table of principal risks on pages and regional directors: 4043. comprehensive monthly reporting to the Board through development progress reviews, management accounts The Audit Committee also oversees the effectiveness of sound and acomparison of committee expenditure against risk management and internal control systems.
During the available facilities: year it considered a detailed report from management which sets out the Groups control environment, the manner in which clearly defined procedures for the authorisation of capital key business risks are identified, the adequacy of information expenditure, acquisitions and sales of development and systems and control procedures and the manner in which any investment properties, construction activity, and other required corrective action is to be taken.
contracts and commitments: The executive directors are responsible for delivering a treasury policy: the Companys strategy and managing operational risk.
a formal schedule of matters, including major investment They inturnplace reliance on the Property Board and their and development decisions and strategic matters, that are teams to monitor and manage operational risk on an ongoing reserved for Board approval: basis, as well as identifying emerging risks.
Risk registers, which a suite of policies and procedures in respect of anti-bribery exist at both a Group and regional basis, provide a framework and corruption, fraud prevention and IT security: for all employees to contribute in recognition of their shared responsibility for effective management of risk in delivering an independently operated whistleblowing facility to our strategy.
enable employees to raise concerns on a confidential basis, withinvestigation overseen by the Audit Committee: The work of the internal audit function is focused on the and controls that mitigate the principal risks faced by the Group.
other control measures outlined elsewhere in this Annual Key internal controls are reviewed by internal audit as part of the Report, including legal and regulatory compliance and annual audit plan and findings are reported to and considered health and safety.
38 St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 Strategic Report 0143 Financial Statements 4485 Additional Information 86 Details of the principal risks which could prevent the In 2014 a workshop facilitated by KPMG was held for senior achievement of our strategic objectives and may have a management to consider in detail the effectiveness of the material impact on our business are set out in the table that Groups risk management framework and review the Groups follows.
This year we recognise the increasing risks associated risk register.
The workshop focused on: with upcoming political events, such as the UK General Election and cyber-crime.
the risk management culture within St. Modwen: the governance framework: The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management during the risk identification and assessment processes: period covered by this Annual Report.
It confirms that the internal reporting: processes described above, which accord with guidance on monitoring and assurance: and internal control, have been in place throughout that period and up to the date of approval of this report.
The Board also mitigation and controls.
confirms that it has not identified, nor been advised of, a failing or weakness which it has determined to be significant.
St. Modwens risk management and internal control systems are designed to identify, manage and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effect of the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They are not designed to eliminate such risk and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 39
