STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING OUR RISKS EMBEDDING A RISK MANAGEMENT CULTURE At Unite Students, risk is assessed and managed as an intrinsic The open and accountable culture of our organisation, set and fundamental part of our strategy.
The Board, when setting by the Board, leads to an open and accountable culture for our strategy and overseeing its implementation, determines the risk management.
The Property and Operations business units nature and extent of our significant risks as well as our risk appetite maintain risk trackers which are owned and managed by alongside our three strategic objectives.
The Board also ensures one person from each unit.
The trackers clearly identify specific sound risk management and internal control systems are in place business risks and their real and intelligible impact to our business.
This risk tracking approach is embedded within Unite Students and leads to a focused, tactile and substantive approach to The Board undertakes a formal risk review at least twice a year.
This involves a thorough review of our material risks and serves as an opportunity to step back and consider any emerging risks.
Strategic objective Related risks Most trusted brand in the sector The health, safety, wellbeing and security of the 43,000 students who make Unite Students their home is the foundation to our reputation and continued focus on health and safety is key to building and maintaining this trust.
In addition, the risk of customer demand reducing due to general market issues such as changes in government policy on Higher Education funding and immigration, new entrants in the market or macro issues underlines why developing the most trusted brand in the sector is critical for long-term success.
Highest quality portfolio Maintain and improve our portfolio whilst navigating site selection, development and planning risks as well as disposal risks.
Strongest capital structure Maintain a timely approach in extending debt maturities, reducing the cost of funding, diversifying our funding sources and introducing new lenders to the Group.
RISK COMMITTEE COMPOSITION OF RISK COMMITTEE The Risk Committee meets quarterly and serves as J J Lister Chair of Risk Committee a bridge between the business unit boards and the and Chief Financial Officer Board and allows a focused forum for risk review.
R C Simpson MD Property The Risk Committee thoroughly reviews and scrutinises R S Smith MD Operations the business unit risk management plans and activities C R Szpojnarowicz Company Secretary and ensures these business risks are being considered and Head of Legal holistically.
This provides a conduit for the free flow of information on risk across the business units D Faulkner Fund Director Risks assessed as and through to the Board.
The Risk Committee part of strategy setting S Taylor Internal Audit and risk oversight also monitors Group policies and the most Owned by the Board and important controls as well as prioritising its Committees other risk management activities.
Twice yearly formal risk review and regular review of risk integral to Board meetings Risk management Owned by the Risk Committee and the business unit boards Monthly risk tracker review at business unit boards Risk Committee quarterly review of all risk trackers Policies and controls People embedded risk underpinning risk management management culture such as Capital Operating Openness, transparency and clear Guidelines: Treasury Policy: Antiownership of risk management Bribery Policy: Major Investment through risk trackers cascades Approvals Committee and the internal through the organisation controls framework 26 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
