Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk and impact How we mitigate this risk Change What has happened during the year Market risks Changes in government policy Ongoing monitoring of government Student numbers in the UK continue to recover such as Higher Education funding policy and its impact on, and strongly following the reduction in student and immigration may affect forecasts of, UK, EU and numbers with the introduction of higher tuition student numbers and behaviour.
international student numbers fees in 2012.
The 2014 intake at UK Universities studying in the UK whilst regularly was 512,000, a record level.
This is likely to May reduce demand and hence reviewing our portfolio to ensure increase further following the removal of profitability and asset values.
we have the highest quality the student number cap in 2015. portfolio appropriately sized Read more on pages 16 17 and in the right locations.
At Unite Students, occupancy of 99% 2014 15 compared with 98% 2013 14 demonstrates this recovery in student numbers is translating into occupancy.
Read more on page 31 In November 2014, tougher rules were imposed on Universities and Colleges sponsoring international students studying in the UK, although Higher Education partners are not reporting any reduction in demand from international students.
Significant volume of new entrants, We will continue with our strategy 2.2 billion of assets transacted during 2014 in both in London and regionally, may to focus on: the PBSA sector.
lead to more competition to attract Markets with a supply demand In April 2014, we launched Home for Success, students, increased investment in imbalance our core business purpose to provide an brand, property and new Exposure to the best Universities environment that helps students succeed developments.
Investment in our brand and the during their time at University.
As part of that, May result in price competition student experience we announced a 40 million investment cutting in certain markets.
Maintaining strong relationships programme committing to a wide range with key Higher Education of service improvements, systems and partners technology upgrades and a new look and feel for our properties.
Read more on pages 18 19 With our focus on operating the highest quality portfolio and maintaining the strongest capital structure, we raised 96 million to accelerate our targeted regional development and increase our stake in USAF.
During 2014, we incurred capital expenditure of 102 million and acquisitions of 33 million Unite share balanced with disposals of 108 million to third parties and 20 million to USAF Unite share.
Read more on pages 13 15 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk and impact How we mitigate this risk Change What has happened during the year Market risks continued Macro issues such as an EU Ongoing monitoring of these macro The major constitutional issues around an referendum leading to the UK issues to ensure we are prepared for independent Scotland have disappeared leaving the EU, 2014 Scottish any changes.
independence subsequent At Unite Students, we continue to monitor EU devolution discussions and referendum developments and possible Higher forthcoming 2015 General Election.
Education policy changes which may flow from Departure from the EU may impact the 2015 General Election and manage our our EU student business.
Uncertainty in our sector and the economy flowing from devolution discussions post-Scotland referendum coupled with impending 2015 General Election.
Property markets are cyclical and Forecast rental growth and Transactions in the market suggest student performance depends on general recurring profit offsets any accommodation valuations should increase economic conditions.
We have been maximising portfolio value through a programme of refurbishments Reduction in asset values reducing Clear and active asset and extensions.
Customer satisfaction is at financial returns.
highest ever levels supporting rental growth.
Change in patterns of study Our continued focus on the Increased number of overseas students through the enhanced use strongest Universities.
Market knowledge and Operational platform supports more Reduced demand for student University relationships.
accommodation resulting in UK Universities retain a global Read more on pages 30 32 lower profitability.
Continued growth of international student mobility.
Operational risks Major health and safety H&S given direct Board supervision H&S continues to be a primary focus and H&S incident in property, by the H&S Committee a subembedding an H&S culture supported by development site or office.
committee of the Board which logical and intuitive rather than bureaucratic actively supervises health and processes has developed throughout the Reputational damage and impact safety ensuring robust policies organisation.
to students living with us.
and procedures are in place During 2014, the strategic H&S priorities were and consistently complied with.
identified as workplace safety, fire prevention H&S is also actively reviewed at the and security with good progress in meeting Operations and Property business all these priorities.
unit boards, ensuring that it is Read more on page 60 regularly assessed and validated in our day to day operations.
28 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Risk and impact How we mitigate this risk Change What has happened during the year Property development risks Failure or delay in obtaining Established planning expertise and Skilled development team with strong track planning or completing careful site selection coupled with record.
Strong relationships with planning construction within budget strong track record and focus on authorities, particularly in London.
Focus on and on time for the scheduled project delivery.
Strong relationships pre-application discussions with authorities academic year.
with construction partners with and relevant Higher Education institutions.
Cost of aborted schemes and or We have secured planning for four of the seven reduced financial returns with cash Financial investment in schemes new developments originating from the 2013 tied up.
Impact on reputation with carefully managed prior to grant and 2014 capital raises.
All 2014 schemes delivered on time and to To ensure we have the highest budget and all other schemes continuing to quality portfolio, we are pursuing run to budget and schedule see page 35. new opportunities on a conditional Read more on our planning activity basis, with a limited number of sites on page 21 contracted not conditional on planning.
Fund management Ability to deliver strategy of both the Dedicated fund directors During 2014, we further aligned our interests with funds joint ventures and the Group.
responsible for managing the USAF LSAV by increasing our stake in USAF to performance of USAF and LSAV.
Loss of investor confidence and or Any potential conflicts are potential deadlock.
Reduced and streamlined our fund joint managed through Risk Committee.
venture structures from four to two.
Disposal of Quarterly meetings with investors.
OCB joint venture investment and merger of our two GIC joint ventures UCC merged into LSAV.
Financing Expiring debt facilities cannot be Proactively managing debt As new facilities were arranged in 2013 and replaced or only at high cost.
maturities to refinance these 2014 see-through debt maturities have been facilities at least six to twelve months extended to seven years.
With see-through Possible forced sale of assets before maturity and in parallel LTV of 43% any refinancing requirement is potentially leading to sales diversifying our sources of finance more straightforward to deliver.
Slowdown of to repay more expensive and less development activity.
Control of future cash commitments in line with progress of disposals and refinancing.
Hedge exposure with interest rate 97% of see-through debt now at fixed swaps.
Refinance facilities with rate swapped.
Reduced profitability and reduction fixed rates.
in property values through resulting Average cost of debt 4.7% with a seven-year expansion of valuation yields and average loan maturity.
Read more on page 38 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29
