Risk management Managing our opportunities as well as our risks.
By managing carefully how we take advantage of our opportunities as well as how we manage our risks, we will beina better position to enhance shareholder value.
David Lawler Company Secretary Understanding our risk appetite and culture We focus on the management of the The board most significant risks facing our business kk Sets strategic objectives: whilst at the same time attempting to kk Agrees key risk appetite, identifies key risks and make the most of our opportunities.
ensures they are The board considers the inherent risk appropriately managed: attributes of our business, highlighted kk Sets delegation of authority: and in the table below, when identifying its appetite for risk and opportunities.
kk Approves group policy and procedures.
Inherent attributes kk The organisation is strongly process orientated: kk There is a relatively stable Executive board Risk management Audit committee management team: kk Monitors performance and assistance Monitors assurance and kk The group is made up of a large changes in key risks facing risk management Guidance and advice to number of plants which lowers the the business, and provides arrangements business line and business regular reports to the board impact to the group should problems unit management to help them with the following: kk Agrees key actions to occur in a specific plant: manage risks kk Risk identification kk The group operates predominantly procedures, quantification in Western Europe, with its well and mitigation plans: developed business culture: and kk Health and safety: Business line Effectiveness kk Fire management: and kk We have an open communication and business of risk and culture where it is normal practice kk Insurance.
unitmanagement controlprocesses toescalate issues promptly.
kk Management and Reviews of the effectiveness employees are responsible of key risk management and The group maintains an open style of for the identification, control processes through: communication.
This is designed to assessment, management kk Internal audit and reporting of local risks: identify any problems and issues early so kk External audit kk Maintenance of local risk that appropriate action is taken quickly registers: and kk Group insurer property to minimise any impact on the business.
kk Risk surveys kk Implementation of key risk The characteristics of our group culture mitigation plans.
are supported by our group intranet, the Berendsen Universe.
This provides an Assurance lines of defence extensive platform for our employees to keep updated with the latest news, the Business line and business Group Independent unit management support assurance key group policies and procedures and to share best practice with others.
22 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Operational Risk Management Group The Operational Risk Management Group is looking at improving systems and procedures toshare risk management best practice around the Group.
The Group meets twice each year to discuss emerging risk management issues and to identify opportunities for us to share best practice.
This Group comprises the following senior management from across the group: Peter Andreasen Vincent Bech Julian Carr Torben Gelineck Product Operations Operations Director Country Manager Development Director Flat Linen UK Healthcare Manager Workwear Denmark Workwear Peter Havus Alistair Hopkins David Lawler Nagore Marco Managing Director Group Health Company Secretary Group Risk Workwear and Safety Director and member Manager and member of Executive Board of Executive Board kk Monthly reports to the board from the Our focus in 2014 Ongoing process for risk Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial identification, evaluation During 2014, focus has been placed on Officer and the Managing Directors of andmanagement the implementation of the suggestions all business lines: drawn from the independent risk The identification of the most kk Regular performance reviews by the management review completed in 2013. significant risks that face the group is Chief Financial Officer and the Group In particular, risk workshops have been the responsibility of the board.
At the Financial Controller with the Managing held to identify and manage risks arising February, June and December 2014 Directors of all business lines, often from deliberate actions.
We have also board meetings, the board reviewed the attended by the Chief Executive increased focus on IT risk management most significant risks facing the group.
Officer who also has onetoone through our IT Steering Group.
We have Throughout 2014 and up to the date meetings with the Managing Directors: strengthened our IT minimum control of the approval of these financial framework and have assessed cyber kk Regular business unit management statements, there has been an ongoing risk and agreed actions to strengthen board meetings, Executive Board process for the identification, evaluation management control activities around it.
meetings and company board and management of the most meetings.
At these meetings existing, In 2014, we reviewed, updated and significant risks faced by the group.
new and emerging operational, improved the group AntiBribery and The identification and evaluation process financial and other risks are discussed, Corruption Policy.
The policy updates of our principal risks is outlined in page together with appropriate actions to are based on the feedback received 24.
The process for managing the most manage these risks being agreed and from the business through a survey significant risks identified included followed up: and performed during Q1 2014 and the the following: review of the current antibribery and kk A structured and approved kk Delegation of authorities approved corruption risk assessments from across programme of internal audit by the board that include formal all businesses.
visits with the implementation of authorisation procedures for recommendations made being all investments: Next steps and key priorities for 2015 monitored as part of a continuous kk Clear responsibilities of line and kk Continue building on the focus areas programme of improvement.
from 2014 to further strengthen and financial management for the maintenance of strong financial embed these within the business: Internal control controls and the production and kk Review, update and improve the The board also has responsibility for review of detailed, accurate and timely current risk management process maintaining sound risk management financial management information: guidelines in order to ensure that and internal control systems, and at least kk A comprehensive financial review they remain fit for purpose and more annually reviewing the effectiveness of cycle, which includes a rolling three responsive to any potential changes these systems.
These internal control year planning process, an annual in activities, processes and business systems are designed to manage rather budget approved by the board, environment: and than eliminate the risk of failing to review of monthly variances against achieve a business objective.
They can kk Strengthen risk communication budget and quarterly reforecasting therefore only provide reasonable and and risk management best practice ofannual performance: not absolute assurance against material sharing processes.
kk Provision to management and the board of relevant, accurate and q Read more about the boards annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal timely information, including key control systems on page 72. performance indicators: Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 23 Principal risks and uncertainties Risks to achieving our strategic objectives.
The business key strategic objectives drive our approach to risk identification process.
Keeping our risks live Risk heat map across our business The following risk heat map illustrates the relative positioning of our principal Each of the groups strategic objectives risks in terms of impact and likelihood.
is considered in the risk identification S 1 Sales model fails to deliver the necessary new process by the board.
The development contract to drive targeted organic growth of mitigation plans and actions to L 2 Further economic uncertainty manage these risks is delegated 3 2 1 L 3 Movements in exchange rates adversely to the Executive Board and other 5 4 6 affectthe translation of our group results senior management.
7 8 intoUK sterling 10 9 4 S Breach of health and safety regulations Mitigation plans and actions required 11 L 12 5 Textile suppliers are found not to be are then communicated to business adoptingappropriate employment and unit management who are responsible humanrights practices for their implementation and L 6 Discovery of historic environmental issues management of risks.
Business unit at laundries management teams are also responsible 7 L Unforeseen loss of operational IT capacity for the identification, evaluation and L 8 Significant change in the political management of local risks.
In this way environmentarising from government Low L Likelihood of risk occurring High business managers across the group are S Significance of management focus policiesor expenditure levels owners of the risks and risk management S 9 Noncompliance with laws and regulations processes keeping these live across 10 L One of our major textile suppliers is our business.
unexpectedly unable to meet our textile requirements 11 S Inadequate talent management and inability to recruit and retain sufficiently qualified andexperienced senior management S 12 Return on Invested Capital ROIC is not These risks are considered to be driven by internal sufficiently greater than the groups cost factors and are therefore evaluated by the significance of management focus required.
of capital How we identify and review ourprincipal risks Corporate risk register Corporate risk register with required mitigation plans.
Updated and reviewed by the Corporate board on a regular basis.
strategy Strategy cascaded to business units Risk registers Business units mitigation Review risks plans.
Reviewed and updated Business unit to delivery by local senior management plans on a quarterly basis.
Strategy cascaded to projects Project risk registers Project specific mitigation Project plans plans.
Generated for strategic business projects by the corresponding project team.
24 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Low ImpactHigh Strategic report Governance Financial statements 1 Sales model fails to deliver the necessary new contract wins to drive targeted organic growth Potential impact Potential impact on strategic kk Reduction in future profitability and cash flow: and objective and Group KPI kk Failure to deliver targeted growth in revenue.
D elivering sustainable Mitigation in 2014 organic growth kk Business line organisational structure in place which gives us more focus on KPI: growth areas: Revenue growth See more on our strategy and KPIs q kk Central sales directors for Workwear, Cleanroom, Mats and Washroom and UK Pages 1419 Flat Linen core growth areas.
These target local business line sales teams to add focus and speed of response: Focus in 2015 kk Sales director group established to follow up groupwide sales development work and improve sales processes: kk Continuation of commercial terms and pricing education kk Pricing network implemented with pricing managers for each business unit, programme for managers and business line and the group: frontline personnel across the group, kk Commercial terms and pricing education programme in place for managers and including tender training: frontline personnel across the group: kk Recruit and retain key account kk Reporting system provides monthly progress against business line budgets, managers: and including key performance indicators: and kk Finalise our work on reviewing kk Monthly management accounts distributed to the board include key performance the strategy.
indicators on organic revenue growth, contract gains and customer losses.
The opportunity Through the strategy review, currently in progress, it is becoming clear that there is still a great deal of opportunity to continue to grow and improve in the markets we are currently operating in.
2 Further economic uncertainty Potential impact Potential impact on strategic kk Reduction in future profitability and cash flow: objective and Group KPI kk Adverse pressure on pricing and margins: and 2.
Improving capital efficiency kk Revenue growth below expectations.
M aintaining a sound financial position Mitigation in 2014 kk Longrange plans for business lines to 2017 prepared: KPI: Return on Invested Capital kk Tight and closely monitored controls over capital expenditure and working capital Free cash flow adjusted profit for the year including capital efficiency review: and Net debt to EBITDA See more on our strategy and KPIs kk Monitoring of various lead indicators against previous experience, including Hotel q Pages 1419 and Workwear volumes.
The opportunity Focus in 2015 Resilience of the business and selfhelp procedures ensure expert and cost effective services.
kk Continued monitoring of lead indicators, including Hotel and Workwear volumes: and kk Continued tight and closely monitored controls over capital expenditure and working capital.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 25 Principal risks and uncertainties continued 3 Movements in exchange rates adversely affect the translation of our group results into UK sterling Potential impact Potential impact on strategic Unexpected variations in group net earnings.
objective and Group KPI Mitigation in 2014 2.
Improving capital efficiency Borrowings in currencies to provide hedge against the cash flows of the majority of 3.
Maintaining a sound overseas net assets in EUR, DKK and SEK no exposure to investments in Greece, financial position Italy, Turkey, Spain or Portugal.
KPI: The opportunity Adjusted earnings per share A track record of a business capable of maintaining a good financial position q See more on our strategy and KPIs attracting more investment.
Pages 1419 Focus in 2015 kk High level of balance sheet hedging will continue.
The hedging will continue to be monitored going forward and reported in the bi annual treasury report to the board.
4 Breach of health and safety regulations Potential impact Potential impact on strategic kk Damage to our reputation: and objective and Group KPI kk Loss of licence to operate.
Maintaining health and safety and other governance matters Mitigation in 2014 as a priority kk Group Health and Safety policy approved by the Executive Board: KPI: kk Completion of an independent review of health and safety management: Major injury rate kk Local health, safety and fire management systems: See more on our strategy and KPIs q Pages 1419 kk Regularly updated and monitored cleaning and maintenance programmes: kk Prompt incident reporting procedures to senior management with subsequent Focus in 2015 monitoring: and kk A new Health and Safety Director kk Regular board review of major incidents and statistics.
from January 2015: The opportunity kk Updated business unit Health The appointment of the new Group Health and Safety Director will allow us to place and Safety reporting instructions further focus on health and safety matters and therefore significantly improve and effective from 1 January 2015: strengthen our systems and processes increasing efficiency and effectiveness.
kk Further focus to target a reduction in group major injury rate: and kk Reporting to the board on major incidents and statistics to continue.
26 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 5 Textile suppliers are found not to be adopting appropriate employment and human rights practices Potential impact Potential impact on strategic kk Loss of licence to operate, loss of goodwill and or damage to reputation: and objective and Group KPI kk Significant stakeholder concern.
Reducing our impact on the environment Mitigation in 2014 kk Regular visits to major suppliers by experienced internal personnel and external KPI: parties to assess suppliers compliance with appropriate working practices: and Adjusted earnings per share q See more on our strategy and KPIs kk Prompt incident reporting procedures to senior management and Pages 1419 subsequent monitoring.
The opportunity Focus in 2015 Reputation as a social responsible partner and service provider.
kk Continue with regular visits to suppliers as well as external audit by an independent assurance provider: and kk Continued monitoring of compliance with our antibribery and corruption procedures.
New AntiBribery and Corruption Policy and procedures are effective from January 2015, which includes a tailored risk assessment for procurement.
6 Discovery of historic environmental issues at laundries Potential impact Potential impact on strategic kk Emergence of unaccounted for liability: objective and Group KPI kk Adverse impact on cash flow and retained earnings: and 7.
Reducing our impact on the environment kk Damage to our reputation.
KPI: Mitigation in 2014 Adjusted earnings per share kk Established incident reporting procedures to senior management with q See more on our strategy and KPIs subsequent monitoring: Pages 1419 kk Indemnities with previous owners that cover a number of acquired sites: Focus in 2015 kk The extent and coverage of these indemnities are reviewed with the relevant thirdparty as appropriate: and kk Current approach to the management of this risk will continue.
kk Defence of these indemnities continues to be vigorously prosecuted.
The opportunity Reputation as an environmental responsible partner and service provider.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 27 Principal risks and uncertainties continued 7 Unforeseen loss of operational IT capacity Potential impact Potential impact on strategic kk Inability to service customer requirements: and objective and Group KPI kk Adverse impact on reputation.
Improving financial returns by leveraging operational efficiency Mitigation in 2014 KPI: kk Documented and evaluated business continuity plans including identification of Adjusted earnings per share alternative production locations: Revenue growth kk Targeted desktop scenariobased testing of business continuity See more on our strategy and KPIs q Pages 1419 planning arrangements: kk Fire protection security procedures and regular audits of compliance: and Focus in 2015 kk Comprehensive Property Damage and Business Interruption insurance.
kk Further targeted desktop scenario The opportunity based testing of business continuity Reputation as a reliable partner capable to continuously serve our customers needs.
planning arrangements: kk Continued monitoring of fire protection and security systems, including responding to the results of our regular independent survey programme: and kk Maintenance of appropriate Property Damage and Business Interruption insurance cover for ourindividual businesses.
NEW 8 Significant change in the political environment arising from government policies or expenditure levels Potential impact on strategic Potential impact objective and Group KPI kk Reduction in future profitability and cash flow: 1.
Delivering sustainable kk Failure to deliver targeted growth in revenue: and or organic growth kk Adverse impact on reputation.
Maintaining a sound Mitigation in 2014 financial position kk Careful planning and monitoring of political developments: and 5.
Maintaining health and safety kk Deep understanding of domestic market and political environment.
and other governance matters as a priority The opportunity KPI: Further business opportunities could arise from the implementation of Adjusted earnings per share new required customers solutions due to legislation changes.
Revenue growth See more on our strategy and KPIs q Pages 1419 Focus in 2015 kk Continue monitoring changes in the political environment.
28 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 9 Non-compliance with laws and regulations Potential impact Potential impact on strategic kk Damage to our reputation: and objective and Group KPI kk Loss of licence to operate.
Maintaining health and safety and other governance matters Mitigation in 2014 as a priority kk Group policies and guidance developed and translated into local languages: KPI: kk Ongoing training programme for employees: Adjusted earnings per share Revenue growth kk Prompt incident reporting procedures to senior management with subsequent monitoring: and q See more on our strategy and KPIs Pages 1419 kk Regular board review of major incidents and statistics.
The opportunity Focus in 2015 Reputation as a trusted and legitimate partner.
kk Current approach to the management of this risk will continue.
10 One of our major textile suppliers is unexpectedly unable to meet our textile requirements Potential impact Potential impact on strategic kk Shortage of textiles: objective and Group KPI kk Inability to service new and existing customer requirements: and 4.
Improving financial returns by leveraging operational efficiency kk Damage to our reputation.
KPI: Mitigation in 2014 Adjusted earnings per share kk Regular risk assessment of our major textile suppliers considering social, Revenue growth political and economic factors: q See more on our strategy and KPIs Pages 1419 kk Identification of alternative production sources: kk Purchase of stock up to three months prior to delivery to reduce risk: and Focus in 2015 kk Secured availability of alternative stocks in the event of serious interruption to supply.
The opportunity Reputation as a reliable partner capable of continuously servicing our customers needs.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 29 Principal risks and uncertainties continued 11 Inadequate talent management and inability to recruit and retain sufficiently qualified and experienced senior management Potential impact Potential impact on strategic kk Lack of internal succession to key management roles within the group in the event objective and Group KPI of unexpected departure: 6.
Maintaining a motivated workforce kk Short mediumterm disruption to the business: driven by an experienced management team kk Loss of key personnel: and KPI: kk Shortage of appropriately skilled management.
Senior management retention rate Mitigation in 2014 See more on our strategy and KPIs q kk Succession plans in place with identified succession for the top 50 roles and Pages 1419 extended to Country Manager and their teams: kk Wider talent pool below the top 50 identified and development planning in place: Focus in 2015 kk Continue with regular updates to kk Executive Board and business line succession reviews held twice yearly: the board and reviews of current kk LEAD leadership framework integrated into performance management process: succession plans: kk Berendsen Academy as inhouse vehicle for furthering company knowledge, kk Continue building succession expertise and leadership development.
88 managers participated in LEAD plans at Country level and further Development Centres in 2014: competency in the leadership kk Management Trainee Scheme expanded by 50% for future building of framework through LEAD management pipeline: Development Centres: kk Group Recruitment Policy in place with focus on consistent and raised standards kk 50 additional managers will for management recruitment: and participate in LEAD Development Centres in 2015. kk Short and longterm management incentive plans fully aligned with business line and group targets.
The opportunity Build expertise, knowledge and capability to effectively respond to business challenges and move the business forward.
30 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 12 Return on Invested Capital ROIC is not sufficiently greater than the groups cost of capital Potential impact Potential impact on strategic kk Lack of funds for future investments: and objective and Group KPI kk Reduction in future profitability and cash flow.
Improving capital efficiency Mitigation in 2014 3.
Maintaining a sound kk ROIC target set at 10% for the medium term.
Reported monthly by business line financial position tothe board in group management accounts: KPI: Return on invested capital kk Delegation of authority reviewed and updated in December 2014: See more on our strategy and KPIs q kk Postacquisition procedure to monitor returns on investments made, compared Pages 1419 tothose targeted: and kk Capital disciplines embedded within the business and being monitored through Focus in 2015 cash flow performance versus budget.
kk Continued focus on generation The opportunity of free cash flow.
A track record of a business capable of maintaining a good financial position attracting more investment.
Close partnership on risk management Via connecting to the customer process and demands and our broad portfolio of services meeting all phases of the customers needs from production to documentation, we have helped the global healthcare company Fresenius Kabi in Germany to attain GMPcompliance and reduce risks at its facilities.
Good manufacturing practices GMP are the practices required in order to conform to guidelines recommended by agencies that control authorisation and licensing for manufacture and sale of food, drug products, and active pharmaceutical products.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 31
