c I o d I n e d t n c e r e t o k o n h a l i n s t f r t e s t i i e y k y r f h r a i r s y t o f r f i s e i l t r e y i q s f f a f n i r u o s u c t a f i e s r t r r n u u q i t e o g a r o u h d r Q t u n i g r e h Q s e r e d r t h s Q e y k u t f s n h Q s i a t i e y e k r n u f n t i s t n a t e e r i i How We Manage Risk Managing risk effectively We operate in a complex global environment, where risks offer opportunities as well as challenges.
Our objective is to allow our people to be decisive, so we can take advantage of attractive opportunities whilst ensuring we are not exposing the organisation to excessive risk.
The risk agenda During the year, the Board reviewed the Risk Appetite Statement which was approved in 2013.
The Board determined that the Groups risk appetite remains consistent and therefore the Risk Appetite Statement was approved without amendment and is set out below.
The aim of the Risk Appetite Statement remains to highlight the risks that we should be willing to take, as well as those which are unacceptable.
The statement includes a series of risk assertions which are aligned to our strategy, together with the risk parameters within which we expect our people to work.
The risk appetite is all of the risk assertions and the parameters taken together.
The parameters can apply to more than one risk assertion, and therefore the individual risk assertions should not be read in isolation.
Compliance with the Risk Appetite Statement is monitored through the Groups standard monitoring and reporting mechanisms.
The Board will continue to review and update the Risk Appetite Statement on an annual basis.
Details of the review of the internal control and risk management systems undertaken during the year are contained in the Audit Committee Report on page 89.
Figure 1: Risk Management Cycle Risk management The management of risks is at the core of the internal control framework.
We have a risk management policy which defines how This also allows the business to avoid impact factor, supporting a consistent we expect risks to be identified, assessed wasting resources on mitigating controls measurement approach.
Risk management and managed throughout the organisation.
and actions which have a negligible impact takes place at the grassroots level, for on the risk assessment.
example in individual projects, all the way Risks are assessed, and quantified, in terms up to Group level assessments, thereby of impact and likelihood of occurrence, both The impact of risks is quantified across providing an integrated bottom-up and before and after control mitigation.
Assessing a range of factors including: financial: top-down approach to risk management.
the gross risk before control mitigation also reputation: people and property: ability to allows the business to review the relative perform services: regulation, environment impact of the existing controls by comparing and health & safety: and investors and the gross and net risk assessment.
The risk management policy includes defined criteria for each risk 24 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 i f n r e d s n I h t y e e k t t i d r h i f I s t y k II I d d d e e m m m e n n i i i n t t t t t t r t i ii i i g g i f f g r f o a a t y y a o y p r t t t t i i r t t i i o n n t n e o n h h r h p t g g g e e i o e e d c c n M r c e e o o o n e o x x d n n a M x n ii n t t i t s s r r a s t t r o o t o i i ll i l s s n n n s g g g Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements The specific risks identified across the business generally fall under one of the categories within the Risk Universe as shown below.
Strategic Hazard Operational Compliance Financial risk risk risk risk risk Industry and Political and People.
Laws and Financial market downturns.
Delivery and Technological Natural disasters supply chain.
Figure 2: Risk Universe Not all risks are controllable or foreseeable, a key example being natural disasters.
Our response to such risks is having controls which lessen the impact to our business should they occur.
For example, in the case of natural disasters, we have controls in place to reduce the risk of harm to our people, as well as response planning protocols, with clear accountability, to minimise disruption to operations and our customers.
Risk appetite statement The Group is strategically positioned in markets with long term high growth potential.
We will pursue ambitious growth targets, and we are willing to accept a higher level of risk to increase the likelihood of achieving or exceeding our strategic objectives, subject to the parameters below.
Organic growth: We will aggressively pursue divisional organic Investment of resources will be consistent with divisional growth strategies to meet our market growth objectives.
strategies, and divisional compound annual growth rates over five-year plans.
Mergers and acquisitions: We will actively pursue M&A Post-tax returns should exceed our cost of capital within three opportunities that enhance our strategic platform, subject years of the acquisition.
R eturns and profitability: We will not pursue growth at Short term margin dilution is acceptable in gaining market entry all costs, and expect high margins, strong returns on capital, but over the cycle we aim for top quartile operating margins and and working capital discipline.
Capital allocation: We will encourage capital expenditure Planned IRR on capital expenditure projects should not be less capex in pursuit of our growth ambitions, subject to Internal than 20%.
Rate of Return IRR and achievement of Group free cash flow targets.
Ca pital structure: We are prepared to use leverage in pursuit We will seek to maintain the ratio of net debt EBITDA below of our growth agenda and will actively seek low cost debt to 2 times at any time current financial covenants below 3.5 times.
fund the Group but will maintain significant headroom against Financing facility headroom of at least 150m.
Reputation and brand image: We will manage avoid situations No tolerance for breaches of: or actions that could have a negative impact on our reputation - Legislative statutory requirements.
Environment, health and safety: We will not undertake - Total Incident Rate 1 and EHS Audit Score 40%.
or pursue activities that pose unacceptable hazard or risk - Active community and environmental engagement is expected.
to our people, the communities in which we operate, - No tolerance for breaches of Weir EHS system.
N ew entry to countries: We are prepared to enter new No tolerance for breaches of: countries which offer opportunities for growth consistent with - Legislative statutory requirements.
We will not enter countries which present - Weir Code of Conduct.
a high risk of harm to our people, damage to our reputation, - International sanctions.
or breach of international sanctions.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 25 Policies and decisions How We Manage Risk continued Risk responsibilities and reporting Ultimately, the Board is responsible for the Groups risk and internal control framework.
It has set out the decisions, and hence the level of risk, which can be delegated to the Group Executive, divisional and operational company management without requiring escalation.
This is articulated in a series of Group policies and delegated authority matrices, as well as the parameters within the approved Risk Appetite Statement.
The Board and committee structure can be viewed on page 77.
The bottom-up risk reporting approach The Risk Committee monitors quarterly requires key risks identified, and reported, risk dashboard reports from the operating at project level to be escalated to the companies and divisions.
In addition, operating company management, which the Risk Committee has oversight of in turn may be escalated to divisional the Group Risk Dashboard, providing an management, and ultimately to the Risk update to the Board at each Board meeting.
This is achieved The Board obtains assurance over risks through risk dashboard reports, which are and risk management through the internal maintained at operating company, divisional control framework.
More information on and Group level.
The dashboards provide the internal control framework can be found a summary of the major net risks at each within the Corporate Governance Report on respective level, as well as a summary page 81 and within the Audit Committee of the key mitigating controls and actions, Report on page 89. and further control actions required.
Board and sub-committees Group Executive Risk Committee Divisional management Operating company management Figure 3: Risk responsibilities and reporting 26 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Reporting Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements The key roles and responsibilities for risk management are set out below: Risk management responsibilities Board Overall responsibility for the Groups - Annual review and ongoing monitoring of the effectiveness of the risk management and risk management and internal control internal control frameworks.
frameworks, and strategic decisions - Review of risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of the Groups within the Group.
- Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Audit Committee Delegated responsibility from the Board - Annual assessment of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal to review the effectiveness of the Groups control frameworks.
risk and internal control frameworks.
- Review of reports from the internal and external auditors.
- Review of the results from the six-monthly self-assessment compliance scorecards.
Risk Committee Management committee responsible - Review of the design and operation of the Group Risk Management Policy and Framework.
for governance of the Groups Risk - Identification and assessment of the key risks facing the Group, identification of the key Management Policy and Framework.
controls mitigating those risks, and identification of further actions where necessary.
- Review of the Divisional Risk Dashboards, considering the appropriateness of managements responses to identified risks, and assessing whether there are any gaps.
- Reporting key Group and divisional risks to the Board.
Group Executive Executive committee with overall - Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of the Groups responsibility for managing the strategic objectives.
Group to ensure it achieves - Monitoring business performance, in particular key performance indicators relating its strategic objectives.
- Taking strategic decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
- Escalating issues to the Board as required.
Excellence Committees Engineering - Monitoring the management of key risks across the Group associated with the Environment, Health & Safety respective remits of the Excellence Committees.
Finance - Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, policies and standards HR related to the respective remits of the Excellence Committees.
IT - Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Value Chain - Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
- Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
Management committees with representatives from across the Group in their respective areas of focus.
The committees govern activities and performance in the individual functional areas.
Divisional Management Responsible for managing the businesses - Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of the divisions within the divisions to ensure divisional strategic objectives.
strategic objectives are achieved and - Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, policies and standards there is compliance with Group policies within the divisions with regard to the outputs from the Excellence Committees.
and standards throughout their division.
- Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
Operating Company Management Responsible for ensuring company - Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of their companys objectives are achieved and business strategic objectives.
activities are conducted in accordance - Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, policies and standards with Group policies and standards.
- Escalating issues to divisional management and Excellence Committees as required.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 27 How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks and uncertainties As in any business, there are risks and uncertainties which could Risk trend impact the Groups ability to achieve its objectives in the future.
post mitigation However, we believe the Groups risk management and assurance Increasing framework makes this less likely.
The principal risks set out below are those which we believe to have the greatest potential to Unchanged impact our ability to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
Decreasing Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Global economic conditions Changes in key We need to remain sufficiently flexible to allow us - We maintain regular engagement with our markets, including to anticipate downturns, to allow us to adjust our customers to understand their needs and challenges, commodity prices operations accordingly, and equally to meet growth and ensure our business is appropriately aligned.
affecting mining in demand when our customers markets are buoyant - Our strategic planning utilises extensive market and oil and gas, and therefore capital investment is high.
Otherwise, intelligence to assist in forecasting opportunities have an adverse we are at risk of incurring unnecessary costs during and dips in markets.
impact on downturns, and not maximising our potential for - We maintain contingency plans for downturns.
customers growth in buoyant markets.
This may include In challenging market conditions, our working capital delaying existing risks are increased.
These are described in more expenditure detail on page 29. commitments.
Changes during 2014 Market conditions have become more challenging during 2014, with commodity prices in oil and gas joining those in minerals markets at recent historical lows.
Necessary adjustments have been made to our operations to accommodate our customers responses to these market conditions.
Technology and innovation We fail to drive The strength of our business is built upon a history - Continual investment in research and development, innovation or to of delivering innovative and sustainable solutions including the Weir Advanced Research Centre WARC react to emerging for our customers.
If we fail to keep abreast of in conjunction with the University of Strathclyde.
technology market needs or to innovate solutions, we are - We have a dedicated governance team Engineering developments, at risk of losing market share to our competitors Excellence Committee focused on the delivery of and therefore fail and lowering margins as demand will reduce.
our strategic objectives for technological advances to ensure that and innovation to meet the needs of our customers.
the business continues to deliver sustainable and attractive solutions for our customers.
Changes during 2014 The pace of technological innovation continues to increase as we and our competitors seek to provide customers with solutions that improve the efficiency of their operations.
To ensure we continue to retain competitive advantage in this area, our existing research and development initiatives within the business, at WARC, and at certain universities around the world, have been enhanced through our partnership with Imperial College, London.
This partnership will help the Group develop game-changing solutions to our customers challenges.
We are also devoting additional resources to reviewing and responding to developing technologies, including appointment into the new role of Head of Engineering & Technology Development.
Further information on progress made in this area is set out in the Products and Technology section of the Sustainability Review on pages 59 and 60.
28 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Political and social risk Adverse political We operate across the globe and therefore have - Regular review of market attractiveness.
action, or political to work within a wide range of political and social - Monitoring travel by Weir employees to higher and social conditions.
Adverse events may occur in the risk locations.
instability, in territories in which we operate that may require us - External expert risk assessments and regular territories in which to act swiftly to protect our people, our property and monitoring in higher risk locations.
we operate may to maintain our competitiveness, and we need to be - Contingency plans and exit strategy planning.
result in strategic, flexible and able to anticipate such issues.
Expansions - Our strategic planning assists in forecasting potential financial or into new territories are only undertaken after rigorous political and social instability in regions.
personnel loss assessment of the risks, including the social and to the Group.
political situation within the territory.
Changes during 2014 In response to increased security risks, arising from changes in the political environment in certain countries where the Group has operations, enhancements have been made to the Groups access to expert risk assessments and plans to respond to adverse events in higher risk locations.
During the course of 2014, it became evident that the environment in which a number of the Groups businesses operate is becoming increasingly challenging and uncertain, especially from a security perspective.
As the safety of our staff is of paramount importance, a new position of Group Head of Security has been created to improve the ways in which these concerns are addressed and mitigated.
This position will report directly to the Group General Counsel.
A Group Head of Security has now been recruited and is due to start work in April 2015.
Supply chain and working capital Failure to achieve If we fail to improve our supply chain management, - Regular KPI monitoring of the supply chain supply chain we risk: throughout the organisation.
management - The Groups operations are currently implementing - losing the opportunity to invest capital which improvements and Value Chain Excellence initiatives which are is currently committed to working capital into the associated intended to enhance operations working capital alternative value creating opportunities: reduction in costs, management and shorten lead times, amongst - damaging our reputation and as a consequence working capital and other business improvement objectives.
losing customers and market share: enhanced flexibility.
- Established Centres of Excellence drive cost - incurring penalties as a result of late delivery savings, efficiencies and enhance delivery contractual clauses: standards whilst maintaining quality.
- reducing margins by incurring unnecessary - The Groups forward purchase commitments are additional costs associated with late remedial being closely monitored to manage inventories actions taken to avoid missing delivery targets: and at levels appropriate to market conditions.
- holding excess inventory in the event of a market - Our credit risk management procedures are under downturn.
continuous appraisal and their application is subject to specific internal audit review.
Changes during 2014 Supply chain remains an area of strategic focus for the Group.
Supply chain improvements continue to be recognised year on year as the Group realises benefits from its focused approach to these matters.
A programme of Value Chain Excellence initiatives has been launched throughout the Group to drive supply chain improvements.
Environment, health and safety EHS Failure to We operate in hazardous environments, and - The Weir Behavioural Safety system is in place adequately protect therefore have a fundamental duty to protect our to reduce the risk of safety incidents.
In addition, our people and people and other stakeholders from harm whilst there are initiatives to prevent the most common other stakeholders conducting our business.
As well as the personal accident types.
The Weir global EHS standards from harm impact on our people resulting from a failure to are continually reviewed.
associated with meet this obligation, we would also be at risk of: - The EHS Excellence Committee is responsible for a breach in EHS monitoring performance and compliance with Group - reputational damage leading to a loss standards.
objectives, policies and standards relating to EHS.
of customers: - There is a formal EHS assurance programme - legal action from regulators, including fines with issues escalated as required through the and penalties: and reporting structures.
- exclusion from markets important for our future growth.
Changes during 2014 The Group is never complacent in relation to EHS matters.
Committed to achieving the highest of standards, the Group continues to set higher benchmarks for EHS compliance and roll out cohesive programmes to address EHS risks and drive safe and sustainable working practices.
Improvements have been made through the year to our EHS board reporting and assurance activities and our key performance indicators in place to measure our success in mitigating EHS risks have shown an improvement on 2013.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 29 How We Manage Risk continued Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Contract risk We fail adequately We operate in an increasingly complex and - The Group has policies and procedures for contract to manage contract competitive environment where customers are acceptance and approval.
risk and as a not only highly focused on price and service but - These are under continuous review and improvement result commit to are also more challenging in contract negotiations.
to ensure they are adequate for current and future obligations which circumstances.
the Group is unable - The tools and training available to employees As we offer a broader range of products and to meet without responsible for contract management are similarly services to our customers, including those that are incurring significant under continuous review.
more technologically advanced, we risk exposing the unplanned costs.
Group to reputational and financial loss should our contract acceptance, negotiation and approval In addition, failure processes fail to protect the Group accordingly.
to follow Group policies and procedures may lead to commitments without the desired level of contractual protections.
Changes during 2014 Contract management has become an area of increased focus for the Group, given the competitive environment and the breadth and depth of our product offerings, and therefore during 2014 was identified as a principal risk.
Amongst other initiatives, certain of the Groups policies and procedures have been reviewed and refreshed to provide employees with improved tools to assist them in their contract management activities.
IT security and continuity Failure to maintain Up-to-date data allows us to make informed - We continually review the effectiveness of our key IT business systems decisions about our business.
Therefore, we require security controls in consultation with external experts.
or technical reliable and efficient IT systems and infrastructure - There is regular reporting of unplanned outages and infrastructure to provide our data requirements.
Breaches of our potential security breaches, with lessons learned that serves the IT security could have serious consequences for across the Group.
our business, including: - We have an IT Governance Framework with a focus on structured change management techniques, - interruption to business operations: and Failure to including setting project governance levels in line - loss of intellectual property and other successfully with risk.
execute changes - External assurance being obtained on the Tier 1 to these business IT transformation projects reporting through The Group is investing in a significant IT systems or Internal Audit.
If this is not managed technical - The security arrangements around all of the Groups effectively, the consequences could include infrastructure: information assets will be revised following the interruption to business operations if data is together with transition to the Weir Cloud infrastructure.
unavailable due to unsuccessful execution failure to minimise - Policies, procedures and baseline standards in of change, impacting our ability to compete disruption and relation to cyber risk and IT security more generally and our reputation in the market.
maintain business are continuously updated and rolled out to operations.
as usual activity A programme of user training in relation to cyber risk during technical is being rolled out.
At present, the Groups principal exposures to infrastructure or cybercrime relate to the misappropriation of cash business system and data.
Our revenue streams are largely protected changes.
as our products are not currently electronic in nature and we do not, as a rule, transact over the internet.
Failure to adequately protect the business operations from cybercrime.
Changes during 2014 IT security and continuity continues to be a matter of strategic priority for the Group.
Progress to strengthen the Groups defences in this respect is being made according to plan as Tier 1 IT projects, such as Weir Cloud, and divisional IT improvements and other projects are put in place.
30 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Cost competitiveness Failure to deliver Customers are increasingly focused on the price - There is continual focus on maximising the cost competitive competitiveness of products and services as they efficiency of our products to ensure the solutions products and seek to lower operating costs.
If the Group fails to provided to customers deliver the best overall services, or demonstrate the value of our products and services, value, allowing our customers to meet their cost failure to deliver it risks losing market position.
reduction strategies through lower energy costs sufficiently and improved productivity.
differentiated - The key component Centres of Excellence are products and driving cost efficiencies, whilst maintaining quality.
services which - Expansion of production in best-cost locations, justify a price including foundry expansions in Malaysia and premium through South Africa.
lowest total cost - We regularly monitor market activity to ensure of ownership we remain competitive.
Changes during 2014 Cost competitiveness remains a strategic priority for the Group.
Initiatives to expand production in best-cost locations are developing in South Africa and Malaysia and the procurement function continues to drive cost and quality improvements through the Groups supply chain.
Ethics and governance Interactions We are unwilling to accept dishonest or corrupt - The Code of Conduct, supplemented with Group with our people, behaviour from our people, or external parties acting policies on related topics, provides a clear benchmark customers, on our behalf, whilst conducting our business.
for how we expect our business will be conducted.
suppliers and other If we fail to act with integrity, we are at risk of: - Regular training is provided using a range of stakeholders are mechanisms including Town Hall style sessions, - reputational damage leading to a loss not conducted online and induction training.
of customers: with the highest - The financial control framework is continually - increased scrutiny from regulators: standards of monitored for effectiveness.
- legal action from regulators including fines, integrity which - Internal Audits remit includes regular review penalties and imprisonment: and devalues our of the anti-bribery and corruption and financial - exclusion from markets important for our reputation.
The Group Legal future growth.
team is responsible for monitoring compliance with the Code of Conduct.
Changes during 2014 The governance and legislative environment in which the Group operates continues to evolve and become more complex.
The Group has further developed and grown its operations in geographies where ethical standards may not be as well established as in other countries.
The Group has reinforced its commitment to high standards of ethics and governance, having reviewed, updated and reissued the Code of Conduct during 2014 and completed a programme of training for key individuals.
In addition, the Group has developed and issued a Group Competition Law Manual, which again is being accompanied by related training for those in relevant roles.
Acquisitions and expansion into new territories Inadequate Acquisitions and expansions into new territories - The strategic planning process includes market planning and are only undertaken after rigorous review and and competitive position assessments to drive management identification of expected synergies, cost savings the acquisition agenda.
of the integration and growth opportunities.
However, there is a risk - Comprehensive due diligence is performed on and expansion that these benefits may not be achieved, or may all potential acquisitions.
processes impacts not be achieved within the anticipated timescales, - We have a formal 100 day integration plan with the ability to thereby tying up the Groups funds in investments dedicated integration directors and managers generate growth with insufficient returns.
There is also a risk that appointed to oversee and manage the full opportunities, we could be left liable for past acts or omissions integration programme.
synergies and of the acquired businesses without adequate - The Groups preand post-acquisition processes are cost savings right of redress.
subject to continuous review and improvement based within expected on our experience of past acquisitions.
- We seek to secure appropriate legal protection against potential liabilities and to secure rights of redress against sellers where such liability arises.
Changes during 2014 With the acquisition of Trio in October 2014, the Group has continued to pursue its strategy of broadening its product offering through the mining production cycle.
This acquisition, together with those made in prior periods, continues to be successfully integrated in accordance with the Groups established processes.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 31
