RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Risk management department: Effective risk management is an essential Provides guidelines, standards and best practice element of the Groups operations examples of risk management at the corporate andbusiness unit levels and strategy.
The accurate and timely Takes responsibility for risk management systems identification, assessment and management Maintains the Groups risk register of risks are key to the operational and Organises and promotes risk workshops Supervises the operations risk registers financial success of the Group.
Reviews effectiveness of mitigating actions Supports internal stakeholders in key strategic decisions The Groups risk management framework can be divided into three tiers: GOVERNANCE Ensuring that the Groups vision, strategy and objectives are communicated throughout the organisation, and that appropriate governance structures, policies and procedures are in place to embed those key aims and objectives.
RISK MANAGEMENT Ensuring that there are appropriate structures and processes in place to identify and evaluate risks, and that appropriate controls and mitigation techniques are developed to address those risks.
Ensuring that the key risks, and the performance in managing those risks, are reported on a timely basis to the relevant parties.
COMPLIANCE Ensuring that the Groups internal policies, procedures and control activities, as well as all relevant laws and regulations, are adhered to.
32 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INPUTS EXPLORATION EVALUATION CONSTRUCTION EXTRACTION PROCESSING MARKETING RESTORATION OUTPUTS The Code of Ethics sets out the Groups The General Managers of each of the GOVERNANCE commitment to undertake business in operations have overall responsibility for The Board has responsibility for determining a responsible and transparent manner.
leading and supporting risk management.
the nature and extent of the significant The Code requires honesty, integrity and Risk Champions within each operation have risks that the Group is willing to accept responsibility from all employees and direct responsibility for risk management inorder to achieve its strategic objectives, contractors, and includes guidelines for processes in their operations and for the andfor maintaining sound risk management identifying and managing potential conflicts continuous update of individual business risk and internal control systems.
An Ethics Committee comprising registers, including any relevant mitigation receives detailed analysis of key matters members of senior management is activities.
Finally, the owners of the risks and for consideration in advance of Board responsible for implementing, developing controls at each business unit are identified, meetings.
This includes reports on the and updating the code and monitoring providing an effective and direct management Groups operational performance, including compliance.
The Code of Ethics and other of risk.
As part of this process, risk workshops health and safety, financial, environmental, compliance matters form an integral part of for each operation are held annually, in which legal and social matters, key developments the induction programme for new employees.
the business units risks and mitigation in the Groups exploration and business activities are reviewed in detail to allow Further information on the Board and Committees is given development activities, information on the in the Governance section on pages 67to102 athorough updating of these business risks.
commodity markets, updates on talent These workshops are used to assess and management and analysis of financial monitor key risks that may affect the business RISK MANAGEMENT investments.
The regular provision of this units relationships with its stakeholders, limit ANDCOMPLIANCE information allows the timely identification its resources, interrupt its operations and or ofpotential issues and the assessment negatively affect its potential future growth.
The Groups risk management department ofanynecessary mitigating actions.
Mitigation techniques for the significant has responsibility for risk management strategic and business unit risks are reviewed systems across the Group.
The department The Audit and Risk Committee assists the by the risk management department annually.
maintains the Groups risk register, which Board with its review of the effectiveness includes the strategic risks that represent of the risk management process and the The Board regularly reviews the compliance the most significant threats to the Groups monitoring of key risks and mitigation of the Group with all relevant laws and performance and achievement of its strategy, procedures.
The Chairman of the Audit regulations, internal policies, procedures along with mitigation activities.
The risk and Risk Committee reports to the Board andcontrol activities.
register is updated on a continuous basis following each Committee meeting, allowing The Vice President of Finance and and annual strategic risk workshops are the Board to understand, and if necessary, Administration is responsible for setting, held at which senior management from further discuss the matters considered operating and monitoring the Crime across the business comprehensively review indetail bythe Committee.
Prevention Model, developed to ensure the Groups key strategic risks and related These processes allow the Board to monitor compliance with the anti-bribery and antimitigation activities.
The risk management the Groups major risks and related mitigation corruption laws in the United Kingdom department reports quarterly to the Audit procedures, and assess the acceptable andin Chile.
and Risk Committee on the overall risk level of risk that arises from the Groups management process, including a detailed operations and development activities.
update of the Groups key risks, mitigations Risk management reports are sent quarterly and the key actions being taken.
Antofagasta plc | 33 RISK MANAGEMENT As part of the Crime Prevention Model the AREAS OF FOCUS DURING 2014 following activities were undertaken during the year: ANDDEVELOPMENT OF KEY RISKS all employees took e-learning courses During 2014, the focus was on implementing better risk management processes, which onethics, anti-corruption and anti-trust included the following measures: matters Achieving maturity level 4 Managed of the Capability Maturity Model out of five levels.
all reports made by whistleblowers This focuses on developing the maturity of the Groups risk management processes were investigated asmeasured against internal targets due diligence was performed on all Establishing best practices in risk management: business partners Implementing the International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM new terms of reference for the Ethics recommendations Committee were approved Introducing a Disaster Recovery Plan and Business Continuity Plan the Code of Ethics and Crime Prevention Updating the Risk Management Methodology, incorporating new areas, such as a specific Manual were updated risk chapter for change management the Crime Prevention Model was Improving key risks controls and executing actions to reduce their impact and orprobability reviewed by an external third party Including compliance matters in the Groups training programme Following up agreed actions for materialised risks Enhancing procedures and processes for community, environment and legal risks Receiving certification for the third consecutive year of the Crime Prevention Model asrequired by Chilean law Further information about the Groups risk management systems is given in the Governance section in pages 67to102 and in the Sustainability section on pages 50to60.
Further detailed disclosure in respect of financial risks relevant tothe Group are set out in Note 23 to the financial statements.
34 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INPUTS EXPLORATION EVALUATION CONSTRUCTION EXTRACTION PROCESSING MARKETING RESTORATION OUTPUTS PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES SET OUT BELOW ARE THE GROUPS PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RELATED MITIGATION TECHNIQUES RISK MITIGATION The Group engages with local communities to establish and maintain relations based on trust and mutual COMMUNITY RELATIONS benefit throughout the mining lifecycle, from exploration to final remediation.
The Group seeks to identify any Failure to identify and manage local concerns potentially negative operational impacts and minimise these through responsible behaviour.
This means acting and expectations can have a negative impact on transparently and ethically, prioritising the health and safety of its workers and contractors, promoting dialogue the Group.
Relations with local communities and and complying with commitments to stakeholders and establishing mechanisms to prevent or address a stakeholders affect the Groups reputation and social crisis.
These steps are undertaken in the early stages of each project and continue throughout the life of each licence to operate and grow.
The Group also contributes to the development of communities in the areas of influence in which it operates, particularly through human capital development the education, training and employment of the local population.
The Group endeavours to communicate clearly and transparently with local communities, inline with the established Community Relations Plan, including the use of a grievance management process, local perception surveys, localmedia and community engagement.
Details of the Groups community relations activities are included in the Sustainability section on page 57 Contingency plans are in place to address potential short-term disruptions to strategic resources.
The Group STRATEGIC RESOURCES commences early negotiations in supply contracts for key inputs to ensure supply continuity.
Certain key Disruption to the supply of any of the Groups supplies are purchased from several sources to mitigate potential disruption arising from exposure keystrategic inputs such as electricity, water, fuel, toasingle supplier.
sulphuric acid and mining equipment could have a negative impact on production.
Longer term, Technological and innovative solutions, such as using sea water in the Groups mining operations, can help any restrictions on the availability of key strategic mitigate exposure to the potential lack of availability of scarce resources.
resources such as water and electricity could affect Access to energy is a priority for the Group and during 2014 the Group secured several sources the Groups opportunities for growth.
ofnon-traditional energy such as wind and solar power.
A significant portion of the Groups input costs Information on the Groups arrangements for the supply of key inputs are included within the Key inputs section on pages areinfluenced by external market factors.
22to24, and details of significant operational or cost factors related to key inputs are included within the Operational review on pages 38to49 The key risks relating to each operation are identified as part of the regular risk review process undertaken OPERATIONAL by the individual operations.
This process also identifies appropriate mitigation techniques for such risks.
Mining operations are subject to a number of Monthly reports to the Board provide a variance analysis of operational and financial performance, allowing circumstances not wholly within the Groups potential key issues to be identified in a timely manner and any necessary actions, such as monitoring control.
These include damage to or breakdown of orcontrol activities, to take place.
equipment or infrastructure, unexpected geological variations or technical issues, extreme weather During 2014, the Group implemented a Business Continuity Plan and Disaster Recovery Plan for all key conditions and natural disasters, any of which could processes within its operations in case of crisis or natural disaster.
The Group has insurance to provide adversely affect production and or costs.
protection from some, but not all, of the costs that may arise from such events.
Additionally, the Group has reinforced the corporate supply strategy, productivity innovation plan andgeometallurgical standards and guidelines.
Details of the operational performance of each of the Groups operations are included within the Operational review on pages 38to49 The Group has a project management system consisting of standards, manuals and procedures containing PROJECT MANAGEMENT the best practices applicable and enforceable in all phases of project development.
The project management Failure to effectively manage the Groups system supports the decision-making process by balancing risk versus benefit, increasing the likelihood of development projects could result in delays success and providing a common defining language and standards.
All geometallurgical models are reviewed in the start of production and cost overruns.
Demand for supplies, equipment and skilled personnel could affect capital and operating Additionally, during the project lifecycle, quality checks for each of the standards applied are carried out by a costs.
Increasing regulatory and environmental panel of experts from within the Group.
This panel reviews the feasibility study in order to assess the technical requirements could result in delays in construction and commercial viability of the project.
Detailed progress reports on ongoing projects are regularly reviewed, or increases in project costs.
including assessments of progress against the key project milestones and performance against budget.
Details of the progress of the Groups projects are included within the Operational review on pages 44to47 The Group assesses political risk as part of its evaluation of potential projects, including the nature of any POLITICAL, LEGAL AND REGULATORY foreign investment agreements.
Political, legal and regulatory developments affecting the Groups operations The Group may be affected by political instability and projects are monitored closely on a continuous basis.
The Group operates in full compliance with the andregulatory developments in the countries existing laws, regulations, licences, permits and rights in each country in which it operates.
in which it is operating, pursuing projects or conducting exploration activities.
Issues regarding The Group monitors proposed changes in government policies and regulations and participates inseveral the granting of permits or amendments to associations that consult with the government on these changes.
permits already granted, and changes to the legal Details of any significant political, legal or regulatory issues that impact the Groups operations are included within environment orregulations, could adversely affect theOperational review on pages 38to49 the Groups operations and development projects.
Antofagasta plc | 35 RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MITIGATION Health and safety risk management procedures are being strengthened, with particular focus on preventing HEALTH AND SAFETY fatalities and the early identification of risks.
Health and safety incidents could result in harm to the Groups employees, contractors or to local The corporate Health and Safety department provides a common strategy to the Groups operations and cocommunities.
Ensuring their safety and wellbeing is ordinates all health and safety matters.
The Group is currently introducing a Significant Incident Report system first and foremost an ethical obligation for the Group as an important part of the Groups overall approach to safety.
and is stated in the Charter of Values.
The Groups goal is for zero fatalities and to minimise the number of accidents.
This goal requires all contractors Poor safety records or serious accidents could to comply with the Groups Occupational Health and Safety Plan, which is monitored through monthly audits have a long-term impact on the Groups morale, and supported by regular training and awareness campaigns for employees and contractors.
The Plan is also reputation and production.
being extended to employees families and local communities, particularly with regard to road safety.
Further information about the Groups activities in respect of health and safety is set out in the Sustainability section onpages 53 to 54 The Group has a comprehensive approach to incident prevention.
Relevant risks have been assessed and are ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT monitored and controlled.
The Groups approach includes raising awareness among employees and providing An operational incident which impacts the training to promote operational excellence.
Potential environmental impacts are key considerations when environment could affect the Groups relationship assessing project viability, including the integration of innovative technology in the project designed to mitigate with local stakeholders, its reputation and ultimately these effects.
The Group has pioneered the use of sea water for mining operations in Chile and strives to undermine its social licence to operate and to grow.
ensure maximum efficiency in water use, achieving high rates of reuse and recovery.
The Group operates in challenging environments, Further information in respect of the Groups environmental activities is set out in the Sustainability section on pages 50to60 including the Atacama desert where water scarcity is a key issue.
The Group assesses a wide range of potential growth opportunities, both internal projects and external GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES opportunities.
A rigorous assessment process is followed to evaluate all potential business acquisitions, which The Group may fail to identify attractive acquisition are subjected to different stress test scenarios for sensitivity analysis and to determine the risks associated opportunities or may select inappropriate targets.
with the project or opportunity under assessment.
The long-term commodity price forecast and The Groups Business Development Committee reviews potential growth opportunities and potential other assumptions used when assessing potential transactions, and approves or recommends them within authority levels set by the Board.
projects and other investment opportunities have a significant influence on the forecast return on The sensitivity of Group earnings to movements in commodity prices is set out in Note 23 to the financial statements.
Details of the Groups growth opportunities are set out in the Operational review on pages 44to47 investment and if incorrectly estimated could result in the wrong decisions being made.
The Group considers exposure to commodity price fluctuations to be an integral part of the Groups business COMMODITY PRICES and its usual policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
The Group monitors the commodity The Groups results are heavily dependent on markets closely to determine the effect of price fluctuations on earnings, capital expenditure and cash commodity prices principally copper and, to a flows.
Very occasionally the Group uses derivative instruments to manage its exposure to commodity price lesser extent, gold and molybdenum.
The prices fluctuations when it feels it to be appropriate.
The Group runs its business plans through various different of these commodities are strongly influenced by a commodity price scenarios and develops contingency plans as required.
variety of external factors, including world economic growth, inventory balances, industry demand and Details of hedging arrangements put in place by the Group are included in Note 23 to the financial statements supply, possible substitution, etc.
As copper exports account for over 50% of Chiles exports, there is a correlation between the copper price FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE andthe US dollar Chilean peso exchange rate.
This natural hedge partly mitigates the Groups foreign exchange The Groups sales are mainly denominated in US exposure.
However, the Group closely monitors the foreign exchange markets and the macroeconomic dollars and some of the Groups operating costs are variables that affect it and on occasion maintains a focused currency hedging programme to reduce short-term in Chilean pesos.
exposure to fluctuations in the US dollar against the Chilean peso.
The strengthening of the Chilean peso may Details of the Groups currency hedging arrangements are shown in Note 23 to the financial statements negatively affect the Groups financial results.
36 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INPUTS EXPLORATION EVALUATION CONSTRUCTION EXTRACTION PROCESSING MARKETING RESTORATION OUTPUTS RISK MITIGATION The Group conducts exploration programmes both in Chile and other countries.
The Group has entered into IDENTIFICATION OF NEW early-stage exploration agreements and strategic alliances with third parties in a number of countries and has MINERALRESOURCES also acquired equity interests in companies with known geological potential.
The Group focuses its exploration The Group needs to identify new mineral resources activities on stable and secure countries to reduce country risk exposure.
to ensure continued future growth.
The Group A review of the Groups exploration activities is set out in the Operational review on page 47 seeks to identify new mineral resources through exploration and acquisition.
There is a risk that exploration activities may not identify sufficient viable mineral resources.
The Groups reserves and resources estimates are updated annually to reflect material extracted during ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL the year, the results of drilling programmes and any revised assumptions.
The Group follows the Joint Ore RESOURCES ESTIMATES Reserves Committee JORC Code in reporting its ore reserves and mineral resources, which requires that The Groups ore reserves and mineral resources the reserves and resources estimates are based on work undertaken by a Competent Person, as defined estimates are subject to a number of assumptions by the Code.
In addition, the Groups reserves and resources estimates are subject to a comprehensive and estimates, including geological, metallurgical programme of internal and external audits.
and technical factors, future commodity prices and The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates, along with supporting explanations, are set out on pages 162to169 production costs.
Fluctuations in these variables may result in some reserves or resources being deemed uneconomic, which could lead to a reduction in reserves and or resources.
There are long-term labour agreements in place with employees at each of the Groups mining operations, TALENT MANAGEMENT which help to ensure labour stability.
These agreements were renegotiated for a period of up to four years AND LABOUR RELATIONS forall of the Groups operations in 2014.
The Groups highly skilled workforce and experienced management team are critical to The Group seeks to identify and address labour issues that may arise throughout the period covered by existing labour agreements, to anticipate any potential issues in good time.
Contractors are also an important maintaining current operations, implementing development projects, achieving long-term growth part of the Groups workforce and under Chilean law are subject to the same duties and responsibilities as the Groups own employees.
The Groups approach is to treat contractors as strategic associates and its goal is and preserving current operations without major disruption.
Managing talent and maintaining a to build long-term mutually beneficial contractor relationships.
The Group maintains constructive relationships with its employees and the unions that represent them through regular communication and consultation.
high quality labour force is a key priority for the Group and any failures in this respect could have a Union representatives are regularly involved in discussions about the future of the workforce.
negative impact on the performance of the existing The Group develops the talents of its employees through training and development, invests in initiatives to operations and future growth.
widen the talent pool and focuses on maintaining good relationships with employees, unions and contractors.
The Groups performance management system is designed to provide reward and remuneration structures and personal development opportunities to attract and retain key employees.
The Group has in place a talent management system to identify and develop internal candidates for critical management positions, as well as processes to identify suitable external candidates where appropriate.
Details of the Groups relations with its employees and contractors are set out within the Sustainability section on page 55 and within the Operational review on pages 38 to 49 Antofagasta plc | 37
