R t Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information o e s P p r o o b n l e d i m s s n l s d g o n r r a e t t d n t i n r o a W C g t M S n i & a r M o n t o a i n n g i t e o t e h c o M n g t r m i a i n s r s n r e G u e s g e s S n e v s m t k K n O A s i s t i V Risk management Our approach to risk Rigorous risk management processes and systems help us assure the integrity of our business operations.
We are committed to conducting business In Europe and Emerging Markets we the review and are implementing any in accordance with all applicable laws and initiated a wide-ranging review of our required improvement plans to address regulations and in a manner that is internal controls to confirm that our risks and strengthen controls.
We have also consistent with our values.
We have an company standards, local laws and continued to satisfy our Corporate Integrity established risk management framework to regulations are understood and adhered to.
Agreement obligations for the Ofce of the address operational, legal and compliance All countries in these regions took part in Inspector General in North America.
risks, both those inherent to the nature of our business and those specic to our Our internal control framework strategic ambitions.
Risk management, coupled with our internal control framework Our internal control helps us maintain our focus on product framework, in conjunction quality, safety and sustainability.
with our values, helps to How we manage risk across GSK ensure that we effectively Company policies, standards and internal manage risks as we conduct controls, together with our company values our business activities.
underpin our approach to risk management.
We are subject to We are committed to being a responsible, inspections and audits values-based business and our leaders are conducted by external responsible for embedding this into our Business parties, including regulatory culture, decision making and how we work.
Activities agencies, to assess the Ensuring product quality, safety and adequacy of our internal sustainability are fundamental to our control framework.
actively address findings from these activities and Employees are accountable for working take appropriate corrective to established standards and for identifying actions to improve our and escalating encountered risks so that internal controls across they can be appropriately managed.
company has comprehensive learning programmes to ensure employees are suitably trained including mandatory training on the GSK Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery and Corruption policies.
Governance structure of risk management Progress in 2014 Responsible for our system of corporate Board of We have learnt lessons from compliance governance, strategy, risk management and Directors issues experienced over recent years and financial performance continue to look for ways to strengthen further our internal control framework so that we can more proactively manage Responsible for reviewing and approving Audit & Risk the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk our Principal risks.
For example, Committee management and internal controls in China we have implemented a new governance model, increased dedicated compliance resources and put in place Supports the CEO in managing our business Corporate additional controls and monitoring local and activities Executive Team ways of working and financial transactions.
We have a central dedicated Anti-Bribery and Corruption team who provide external Authorised by the Board to assist the Audit & Risk Risk Oversight insight, standards, training and expertise Committee in overseeing the risk management and Compliance to our business globally.
In 2014, we also and internal control activities of the Group Council strengthened our internal investigations team to create three regional hubs to provide a consistent approach to Responsible for identifying, assessing Business units and managing risks within their businesses investigations across the group, allowing us to respond more quickly and consistently to emerging issues.
Ensure that appropriate internal controls Risk Management We have enhanced our approach to for effective risk management are implemented and Compliance independent business monitoring to detect Complemented by Country Executive Risk Boards abnormal or inappropriate financial ows Boards to ensure a consistent approach to risk management better within Europe and Emerging Markets.
across local geographies 16 GSK Annual Report 2014 e s s n R a s u C e e l i B r d u s o p n e t s r m e s n e A p t e m e n d d E u n n I n e i p c e a t d d t n i n n e o a I n m e n e i l c p r i o c f s i n D T E r a i n i n g Accountability for monitoring Responsibility for implementing Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Principal risks The Principal risks listed below are those we believe could cause our results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
They are not listed in order of signicance.
A full description of the denition, context, potential impact and mitigating activities for these Principal risks is set out on pages 232.
Principal risk Denition How we manage risk Patient safety Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, The Chief Medical officer leads a large Global or report adverse events from all potential sources, Safety and Pharmacovigilance team and maintains and to act on any relevant findings in a timely applicable global policies to guide staff worldwide.
Intellectual property Failure to appropriately secure and protect Our Global Patents group continually analyses and intellectual property rights.
ensures that changes in patent laws and regulations are incorporated into its processes for obtaining, maintaining and enforcing global patent protection.
Product quality Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Our Chief Product Quality officer leads our Practices or inadequate controls and governance global network of Quality Councils, implements of quality.
applicable policies and assures our single Quality Management System that defines quality across our businesses.
Supply chain continuity Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant We closely monitor the inventory status and nished product.
delivery of our products to help ensure that our customers have the medicines, vaccines and consumer products they need through the Supply Chain Governance Committees.
Financial reporting Failure to report accurate financial information Our internal controls over financial information and disclosure in compliance with accounting standards and and reporting are overseen by regional management applicable legislation.
and then reviewed with the Financial Controller and the Chief Financial officer CFO, and our external auditors.
Tax and treasury Failure to comply with current tax law or incurring Tax risk is managed by a set of policies and significant losses due to treasury activities.
procedures to help ensure consistency and compliance with tax legislation.
Where appropriate we engage advisors and legal counsel to review tax legislation and the applicability to our business.
Anti-Bribery and Failure to comply with applicable local and We have an extensive global ABAC programme, Corruption ABAC international ABAC legislation.
policy and procedures overseen by a top-level ABAC Oversight Committee.
As part of the programme, significant training is provided to employees globally regarding anti-bribery and corruption and compliance with the Groups ABAC policies.
Commercial practices and Failure to engage in commercial and or scientific We have harmonised policies and standards scientific engagement activities that are consistent with the letter and which govern promotional activities and scientific spirit of legal, industry, or the Groups requirements Engagement undertaken by the Group or on its relating to marketing and communications about behalf.
Employees worldwide are trained on the our medicines and therapeutic areas.
policies and implications for failure to comply with such policies.
Research practices Failure to protect and inform patients involved in We implement systems of governance and human clinical trial research and, generally, to controls to oversee our clinical trial research, conduct clinical trials in compliance with law.
use of biological samples, and data integrity in all of our key systems.
Environment, health & Failure to manage EHSS consistent with the We have Global EHSS Standards which support safety and sustainability Groups objectives, policies and relevant laws our EHSS policy and are overseen by members of EHSS and regulations.
Employees globally are routinely trained on the Groups EHSS policies.
Information protection Failure to protect and maintain access to critical Our Chief Information Security officer oversees or sensitive computer systems or information.
our global information policy and programme and regularly assesses changes by closely monitoring our systems and through external briengs.
Crisis and continuity Inability to recover and sustain critical operations We have established a Crisis and Continuity management following a disruption or to respond to a crisis Management CCM governance board and incident in a timely manner.
a team of CCM experts to ensure critical business operations have crisis and continuity plans in place.
Third-party oversight Failure to maintain adequate governance and Our Chief Procurement officer oversees our policy oversight over third-party relationships.
framework governing how we buy goods and services and management of third-party relationships.
