Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents DIRECTORS Remuneration Report DIRECTORS Remuneration Report UNAUDITED INFORMATION  Prior to November 2013, Merlin was a private company and its remuneration structure, particularly for senior executives, was The information provided in this section of the Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
significantly different to the structure adopted since Admission.
 Given this change in structure during 2013, the Committee does not believe 2013 CEO and employee remuneration is comparable with The chart below compares the Total Shareholder Return performance of the Company over the period from Listing to 27 December 2014 CEO and employee remuneration.
However, for information purposes, the accompanying table reflects the key changes in CEO 2014 to the performance of the FTSE 250 Index.
This index has been chosen because it is a recognised equity market index of which and employee remuneration since Admission.
The base point in the chart for Merlin equates to the Offer Price of 315p.
1 2 3 Salaryincrease Benefitsincrease decrease Annualbonusincrease CEO 2.0% -24% n a 130 Merlin Entertainments FTSE 250 Average for all UK employees 2.0% 0% n a 126 125 1 As Merlin was not a listed company for the whole of 2013, the Remuneration Committee believes the statutory requirement to show year-on-year change in salary between 2013 and 2014 would not be appropriate.
The data shown here represents the first post-Admission salary settlement for the CEO and the average award for UK employees that was effective 1 October 2014.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the UK workforce is the most appropriate comparator for this analysis for the UK based CEO.
2 The CEO benefits movement has been calculated using a pro-rated figure for 2013.
The decrease in benefits arises from reduced cost of health insurance benefits and car provision.
120 3 The specific structure of the 2013 annual bonus was designed and agreed in the context of Merlin being a private company.
Post Admission, the 2014 annual bonus was significantly restructured so as to reflect standard listed company practice.
Given this significant reshaping of the bonus plan, the Committee does not believe that 2013 and 2014 annual bonuses are comparable.
115 115  110 This chart illustrates the total expenditure on pay for all of Merlins employees compared to distributions to shareholders by 108 way of dividend and share buyback.
In order to provide context for these figures, underlying operating profit is also shown.
104 105 15m 5.0% 20m 21m 7.1% 100 100 350 312 311 95 297 290 300 90 250 Listing 2013 year end 2014 year end 13 November 28 December 27 December 2013 2013 2014 200 150 The table below summarises the CEO single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus payouts and PSP vesting levels as a percentage of maximum opportunity over this period.
100 2013fromListing 2014fullyear 2013 50 20 2014 CEO single figure of remuneration 000 151 1,598 0 0 Annual bonus payout as a % of maximum opportunity n a no maximum limit applied in 2013 100% Employee costs Distributions to Underlying shareholders operating profit see page 104 PSP vesting outturn as a % of maximum opportunity n a no award vested in 2013 n a no award vested in 2014 From Listing on 13 November 2013 to 28 December 2013.
82 83  Merlin onthedateofListing FTSE250 m Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents DIRECTORS Remuneration Report DIRECTORS Remuneration Report  ANNEX TO THE REMUNERATION REPORT - POLICY REPORT The Committee has been chaired throughout the year by Charles Gurassa.
The Committee has comprised the Chairman of the Board and the independent Non-executive Directors.
For the reference of shareholders, this Annex to the Remuneration Report sets out our Directors Remuneration Policy Policy that was approved by a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM in the exact form that it was included in the 2013 Remuneration Report.
The Committee met three times during 2014.
The CEO, Group HR Director, Group Compensation & Benefits Director and the This Policy applies to payments made from 15 May 2014.
The information provided in this section of the Remuneration Report is Group Legal Director in his role as secretary to the Committee were also present at some of these meetings by invitation.
The Committee is responsible for determining all aspects of Executive Director pay.
It also monitors pay arrangements for other senior Policytable executives and oversees the operation of all share plans.
Full terms of reference of the Committee are available on our website under The following table sets out details of each component of the Executive Director remuneration package.
Our aim is to provide pay Investor Relations - Corporate Governance.
packages that will: Motivate and retain our industry leading employees.
Deloitte LLP was appointed by the Company in 2013 to provide advice on executive remuneration matters.
During the year, the Attract high quality individuals to join us.
Committee received independent and objective advice from Deloitte principally on the drafting of the remuneration report, shareholder Encourage and support a high performance culture.
Deloitte was paid 45,595 in fees during 2014 for these services charged on a time plus expenses Reward delivery of our business plan and key strategic goals.
Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such, voluntarily operates under the code of Align our employees with the interests of shareholders and other external stakeholders.
conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
In addition, other practices of Deloitte, separate from the executive remuneration practice, have provided tax advice to the Company during the year.
Purposeandlink 1 tostrategy Operation MaximumOpportunity   At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, strong shareholder support was received for our resolutions on remuneration as summarised below.
Fixedpay Basesalary Generally reviewed annually with any No absolute maximum has been set None Votesfor Votesagainst Voteswithheld To appropriately recognise increase normally taking effect from for Executive Director base salaries.
responsibilities and attract 1 October although the Committee may Current Executive Director salaries Approval of the Policy Report 896.7m 99.4% 5.2m 0.6% 7.3m and retain talent by ensuring award increases at other times of the are set out in the Annual Report on salaries are market year if it considers it appropriate.
Remuneration section of this Approval of the Annual Report on Remuneration 905.9m 99.8% 2.3m 0.2% 0.9m competitive.
The review takes into consideration a number of factors, including but not Any annual increase in salaries is at the limited to : discretion of the Committee taking into  The individual Directors role, account the factors stated in this table experience and performance.
and the following principles: Executive Directors are normally entitled to accept external appointments outside the Company with the consent of the Board.
Salaries would typically be increased at Any fees received may be retained by the Director.
Market data for comparable roles in a rate consistent with the average appropriate pay comparators.
salary increase in percentage of salary As at the date of this report, neither of the Executive Directors held an external appointment for which they received a fee.
Pay and conditions elsewhere in terms for permanent employees.
Larger increases may be considered appropriate in certain circumstances AnnualGeneralMeeting including, but not limited to, a change The Annual Report on Remuneration section of this Remuneration Report will be submitted for an advisory shareholder vote in an individuals responsibilities or in at our Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 May 2015. the scale of their role or in the size and complexity of the Group.
On behalf of the Board Larger increases may also be considered appropriate if a Director has been initially appointed to the Board at a lower than typical salary.
CharlesGurassa  Benefits Benefits are role specific and take into There is no overall maximum as the None 25 February 2015 To provide market account local market practice.
level of benefits depends on the annual competitive benefits.
cost of providing individual items in the Benefits currently include a company car relevant local market and the individuals or car allowance, phone costs, income specific role.
protection insurance, an annual medical, private medical insurance and life assurance of four times annual salary.
The Committee has discretion, in the event of the appointment of a Director based overseas or in exceptional circumstances, to add to or remove benefits provided to Executive Directors.
84 85 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents DIRECTORS Remuneration Report DIRECTORS Remuneration Report Purposeandlink Purposeandlink 1 1 tostrategy Operation MaximumOpportunity  tostrategy Operation MaximumOpportunity  Pension Current policy is for the Company to Executive Directors receive a None PerformanceShare Awards are usually granted annually The maximum annual award permitted Vesting of PSP awards is 3, 4 To provide market either contribute to the Group Pension contribution of up to 25% of salary to Plan PSP under the PSP to Executive Directors under the PSP is shares with a market dependent on measures competitive retirement Plan and or to provide a cash allowance the Group Pension Plan and or as a cash To link reward to key business and other selected senior executives.
value as determined by the Committee of Group earnings benefits.
allowance in lieu of pension.
targets for the longer term of 350% of salary.
and return on total and to retain executives.
Individual award levels and performance investment with the conditions on which vesting will be Each year the Remuneration Committee precise measures Variablepay dependent are reviewed annually by determines the actual award level for and weighting of the the Remuneration Committee.
individual Executive Directors within measures determined by 2, 3 The Executive Directors are participants The maximum award that can be made The bonus is based on Annualbonus this limit.
the Committee ahead of in the central bonus plan which is under the central bonus plan is 150% performance assessed To link reward to key business Awards may be granted as conditional each award.
These details reviewed annually to ensure bonus of salary.
over one year using targets for the forthcoming awards of shares, nil-cost options or are disclosed in the opportunity, performance measures appropriate financial, year and to individual forfeitable share awards or, if Annual Report on and targets are appropriate and Each year the Remuneration Committee strategic and individual contribution.
Remuneration section supportive of the business strategy.
determines the maximum bonus performance measures.
of this Remuneration opportunity for individual Executive Additional alignment with Awards normally vest at the end of a Report.
Two thirds of an Executive Directors Directors within this limit.
The majority of the shareholders interests period of at least three years following annual bonus is delivered in cash bonus will be determined through the operation of grant although may vest early on leaving Performance will usually following the release of audited results by measure s of Group bonus deferral.
employment or on a change of control be measured over a and the remaining third is deferred into financial performance.
three year performance an award over Company shares under The selected measure s period.
For achieving a The Merlin Entertainments plc for the next financial An additional payment in the form of threshold level of Deferred Bonus Plan.
year are set out in cash or shares may be made in respect performance against a Deferred awards are usually granted in the Annual Report on of shares which vest under PSP awards performance measure, the form of conditional share awards Remuneration section to reflect the value of dividends which no more than 25% of the or nil-cost options and may also be of this Remuneration would have been paid on those shares portion of the PSP settled in cash.
during the vesting period this payment award determined by Deferred awards usually vest three may assume that dividends had been that measure will vest.
years after award although may vest A sliding scale of targets reinvested in Company shares on a Vesting then increases on early on leaving employment or on a is set for each Group cumulative basis.
a sliding scale to 100% change of control see later sections.
financial measure with for achieving a stretching An additional payment in the form of payout at zero for maximum performance cash or shares may be made in threshold financial target.
respect of shares which vest under performance increasing deferred awards to reflect the value of to 50% for meeting Tax-approved monthly savings scheme Monthly saving limit of 250 prior to The Sharesave AllEmployeeSharePlan dividends which would have been paid expectations and facilitating the purchase of shares 6 April 2014, 500 thereafter or such scheme is structured in UKSharesaveScheme on those shares during the vesting 100% for maximum 3, 5 through share options at a discounted other limit as may be approved from accordance with HMRC period this payment may assume that performance.
exercise price by all eligible time to time by HMRC under all requirements so has no To create staff alignment with dividends had been reinvested in UK employees.
savings contracts held by an individual.
performance conditions the Group and promote a Company shares on a cumulative basis.
The remainder of the but requires participants sense of ownership.
Deferred awards will be subject to bonus will be based Executive Directors are eligible to to make regular savings withholding at the Remuneration on financial, strategic or participate on the same basis as into a savings contract.
Committees discretion during the operational measures other employees.
deferral period in exceptional appropriate to the circumstances where the Committee individual Director.
CompanyShareOption The CSOP permits grants of share Annual awards of options over shares If CSOP awards finds that the Executive Director has The selected measures 3 Plan CSOP options with an exercise price of not worth up to 100% of salary at grant were, in exceptional engaged in misconduct justifying for the next financial Executive Directors will less than the market value of a share or, if the Remuneration Committee circumstances, granted summary dismissal or there has been a year are set out in the only receive CSOP awards in as determined by the Committee determines that special circumstances to an Executive Director, material misstatement of the financial Annual Report on exceptional circumstances.
they would be subject accounts relating to the relevant bonus Remuneration section to an appropriate year which has led to an overpayment of this Remuneration Individuals who are Options are usually exercisable between performance condition of bonus.
promoted to the Board three and ten years following grant as determined by may have outstanding although may have a different exercise the Committee.
Any bonus payout is awards under this plan.
period on leaving employment or on a ultimately at the change of control see later sections.
An individual promoted discretion of the to the Board may have Committee.
Options that are HMRC unapproved outstanding CSOP may, if appropriate, be settled in cash awards granted prior to or be net-settled.
their promotion that have no performance conditions attached to them.
86 87 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents DIRECTORS Remuneration Report DIRECTORS Remuneration Report 4 Notes to the table: Performance measures - PSP.
The PSP performance measures are chosen to provide  1 alignment with our longer term strategy of growing the business in a sustainable The Committee may vary or waive any performance condition s if circumstances manner that will be in the best interests of shareholders and other key stakeholders occur which cause it to determine that the original condition s have ceased to be Merlins remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery in the Company.
In particular, our use of earnings and return on total investment appropriate, provided that any such variation or waiver is fair, reasonable and not of stretching short term and long term performance targets.
measures is designed to reward management for delivery of key financial measures materially less difficult to satisfy than the original condition in its opinion.
In the of Company success that should result in sustainable value creation.
Targets are event that the Committee were to make an adjustment of this sort, a full considered ahead of each PSP grant by the Remuneration Committee taking into explanation would be provided in the next Remuneration Report.
The charts below provide illustrative values of the remuneration package for Executive Directors under three assumed performance 2 account relevant external and internal reference points and are designed to be Performance measures - annual bonus.
The annual bonus measures are reviewed appropriately stretching.
annually and chosen to focus executive rewards on delivery of key financial targets scenarios.
The charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from that shown.
5 Broadly equivalent versions of the UK Sharesave Scheme operate for USA employees for the forthcoming year in addition to key strategic or operational goals relevant to US Employee Stock Purchase Plan and overseas employees Overseas Sharesave an individual.
Precise targets for bonus measures are set at the start of each year by Scheme.
An Executive Director based in the USA or overseas may be eligible the Remuneration Committee based on relevant reference points, including, for to participate in one of these schemes instead of the UK Sharesave Scheme.
Assumedperformance Assumptionsused Group financial targets, the Companys business plan and are designed to be The monthly contribution limit for the US Employee Stock Purchase Plan would appropriately stretching.
be specified by the Remuneration Committee before each grant.
3 All performance scenarios Fixed pay Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, benefits and pension.
The Committee may: a in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital 6 The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and and with the exception of HMRC approved options demerger, super dividend or Base salary - salary effective as at 1 January 2014. payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy dividend in specie or any other corporate event which it reasonably determines Benefits - estimated value of 5% of salary.
set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: a before the policy justifies such an adjustment, adjust: and b amend the terms of awards granted Pension - amount expected to be received in 2014 25% of salary.
came into effect: or b at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director under the share schemes referred to above in accordance with the rules of the of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in relevant plans which were summarised for shareholders in the Companys IPO consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
Share awards may be settled by the issue of new shares or by the purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable Minimum performance Variable pay No payout under the annual bonus.
In line with prevailing best practice at the time this Policy remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the Report is approved, any issuance of new shares is limited to 5% of share capital over No vesting under the PSP.
payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
a rolling ten year period in relation to discretionary employee share schemes and 7 10% of share capital over a rolling ten year period in relation to all employee The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out in this share schemes.
Policy Report for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to Performance in line with expectations Variable pay 50% of the maximum payout under the annual bonus.
take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for 50% vesting under the PSP.
Maximum performance Variable pay 100% of the maximum payout under the annual bonus.
 There are differences in the precise components within the pay policy for Executive Directors and for our employees generally and a greater proportion of Executive Directors pay is at risk and determined by performance than for our employees generally.
However, as PSP awards have been shown at face value, with no share price growth or discount rate assumptions.
All-employee share plans have been excluded.
For the purposes of the outlined in the Committee Chairmans statement, common principles underlie the pay policy through the Company including for the illustration, we have, consistent with legislative requirements, included the maximum permitted annual bonus opportunity 150% of salary and maximum permitted PSP award 350% of salary as set out in the Policy Table above.
We would emphasise that these are the maximum permitted awards under the incentive schemes.
The CFOs actual annual Executive Directors.
In particular, we place great emphasis throughout the Company on reward being linked to performance either bonus opportunity for 2014 135% of salary is lower than the scheme maximum and the face value of the PSP awards granted to the CEO and CFO in November 2013 Group performance or of an employees particular attraction and on encouraging share ownership through participation in the PSP, 310% of salary and 280% of salary respectively was lower than the scheme maximum.
CSOP or the All Employee Share Plan.
 4,000 3,591 PSP  Operation Opportunity 3,500 Annual Bonus  NED fees NED fees other than NEDs whose Fees are set at an appropriate level that is To appropriately recognise responsibilities appointment is in respect of their position market competitive and reflective of the Fixed Pay by ensuring fees are market competitive.
as representatives of the pre-IPO major responsibilities and time commitment 3,000 shareholders comprise payment of an annual associated with specific roles.
basic fee and additional fees for further 55% Board responsibilities such as: No absolute maximum has been set for 2,500 Senior Independent Director.
Current fee levels are 2,174 2,166 Audit Committee Chairman.
set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration Remuneration Committee Chairman.
section of this Remuneration Report.
2,000 The Chairman of the Board receives an The Companys Articles of Association provide 46% all-inclusive fee.
that the total aggregate fees paid to the 55% Chairman and NEDs will not exceed 1,500 1,311 No NED participates in the Groups incentive 1,000,000. arrangements or pension plan or receives any 24% other benefits other than where travel to the 46% 1,000 20% Companys registered office is recognised as a 741 taxable benefit in which case a NED may receive 24% the grossed-up costs of travel as a benefit.
449 20% 500 100% 34% 21% Fees are generally reviewed annually.
100% 34% 21% NEDs whose appointment is in respect of 0 their position as shareholder representatives Minimum Meeting Maximum Minimum Meeting Maximum expectations expectations do not receive a fee.
CEO CFO 88 89 000 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents DIRECTORS Remuneration Report DIRECTORS Remuneration Report  Buy outs Servicecontracts To facilitate recruitment, the Remuneration Committee may Key terms of the current Executive Directors service agreements and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment other than Principles make a one-off award to buy out terms, incentives and any other Non-executive Directors whose appointment is in respect of their position as representatives of the pre-IPO major shareholders are In determining remuneration arrangements for new compensation arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous summarised in the table below.
It is envisaged that any future appointments would have equivalent contractual arrangements unless appointments to the Board including internal promotions, employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of all otherwise stated in this Policy Report.
the Committee applies the following principles: relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to The Committee takes into consideration all relevant factors, incentive awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, the Provision Policy proportion of the vesting performance period remaining and the including the calibre of the individual, market data and existing form of the award e. g. cash or shares.
The overriding principle arrangements for other Executive Directors, with a view that Notice period Executive Directors - twelve months notice by either the Company or the Executive Director.
will be that any replacement buy out award should be of any arrangements should be in the best interests of Merlin Non-executive Directors - three months notice by either the Company or the Non-executive Director or comparable commercial value to the terms, incentives and other no notice period if terminated by shareholders.
and our shareholders, without paying more than is necessary.
compensation which have been forfeited.
However such awards Typically, the new appointment will have or be transitioned Termination payment There is no payment in lieu of notice clause in the Executive Directors service agreements.
Any payments of would only be considered where there is a strong commercial onto the same package structure as the other Executive compensation on termination would be subject to negotiation in line with general principles which include a rationale to do so.
Directors, in line with the Policy Table presented above.
duty for the individual to mitigate loss.
Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the Non-executive Directors are entitled to receive any fee accruing in respect of their notice period.
Components and approach organisation, the normal policy of the Company is that any The remuneration package offered to new appointments may Expiry date Executive Directors have rolling twelve months notice periods so have no fixed expiry date.
legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the All Non-executive Directors have rolling three months notice periods so have no fixed expiry date.
include any element listed in the Policy Table above, or any other original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an Executive Director element which the Committee considers is appropriate given the is appointed following the Companys acquisition of or particular circumstances, with due regard to the best interests of merger with another company or business, legacy terms shareholders subject to the limits on variable pay set out above.
and conditions would be honoured.
Each of the Non-executive Directors nominated by the pre-IPO major shareholders are appointed pursuant to the relevant Relationship Upon appointment, the Committee may consider it Agreement with their nominating shareholder and do not have individual letters of appointment with the Company.
These Relationship In considering which elements to include, and in determining the appropriate to offer additional remuneration arrangements Agreements provide for the aforementioned shareholders to maintain a Non-executive Director as a shareholder representative for so approach for all relevant elements, the Committee will take into in order to secure the appointment.
In particular, the long as they hold 10% of the Companys share capital.
The Company has the right to remove these Directors should the relevant account a number of different factors, including but not limited Committee may consider it appropriate to buy out terms shareholding fall below 10% and no fees or termination payments are payable.
to market practice, existing arrangements for other Executive or remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a Directors and internal relativities.
If appropriate, different targets previous employer discussed below.
Each Director will retire and put themselves forward for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting of the Company.
may be applied to a new appointees annual bonus in their year The Committee may provide costs and support if the of joining.
recruitment requires relocation of the individual.
All Executive Directors service agreements and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office at 3 Market Close, Poole, Dorset BH15 1NQ.
The Committee would seek to structure buyout and variable Maximum level of variable pay pay awards on recruitment to be in line with the Companys The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be  remuneration framework so far as practical but, if necessary, granted to new Executive Directors in respect of recruitment As outlined above, there are no contractual obligations to make any payments to Executive Directors in relation to loss of office and any the Committee may also grant such awards outside of that shall be limited to the maximum permitted in the Policy Table, termination payment would be subject to negotiation although would not be expected in normal circumstances to exceed salary, framework as permitted under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 subject to namely 500% of their annual salary.
This limit excludes any pension and benefits in relation to the individuals outstanding notice period.
the limits on variable pay set out above.
The exact terms of any payments or awards that may be made to buy out the Director such awards e. g. the form of the award, timeframe, performance for terms, awards or other compensation forfeited from their In relation to payments under non-contractual incentive schemes, the Committee would take the following factors into account: conditions, and leaver provisions would vary depending upon previous employer discussed below.
The Committee may determine that the Executive Director is eligible to receive a bonus in respect of the financial year in which they the specific commercial circumstances.
This bonus would usually be time apportioned.
In determining the level of bonus to be paid, the Committee may, at its discretion, take into account performance up to the date of cessation or over the financial year as a whole.
Recruitment of Non-executive Directors The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
In the event of the appointment of a new Non-executive Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line The table overleaf summarises the treatment of share awards for leavers and on a change of control in share plans under which with the structure set out in the Policy Table for Non-executive Executive Directors could hold awards.
However the Committee or the Board as appropriate may include any element listed in the Policy  Table above, or any other element which the Committee The Committee does not formally consult with employees as part of its process when determining Executive Director pay.
However the considers is appropriate given the particular circumstances, Committee is kept informed of general decisions made in relation to employee pay and related issues by the Group HR Director and is with due regard to the best interests of shareholders.
conscious of the importance of ensuring that its pay decisions for Executive Directors are regarded as fair and reasonable within the business.
As outlined in the Policy Table, pay and conditions in the Group are one of the specific considerations taken into account when the Committee is determining salary levels for the Executive Directors.
 The Companys three major shareholders each had a representative on the Committee in the pre-Listing period and, accordingly, the structure of our post-Listing remuneration policy has been subject to significant consultation with them.
In addition we have sought the views of our largest institutional shareholders and leading advisory bodies post Listing.
90 91 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents DIRECTORS Remuneration Report NOMINATION Committee Report The following table summarises the treatment of share awards for leavers and on a change of control in share plans under which Executive Directors could hold awards.
Treatment Treatmentonachange Goodleaver Treatmentfor forany ofcontrol voluntary Plan categories goodleaver otherleaver winding-up STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Deferred Death.
Deferred bonus awards vest on Deferred bonus Deferred bonus BonusPlan Injury.
The Board and Nomination Committee have undertaken detailed Retirement.
This report describes the activities of the Nomination Committee succession planning reviews during 2014, focused on Executive Transfer of employing during 2014.
The Committee met three times during the year Director positions as well as other senior manager roles company or business to and we focused our attention on Board appointments, succession within the Group.
This has identified key individuals already which an individuals planning and diversity.
in the Group, for whom high level training and development employment relates out Performance PSP awards will usually vest on a Awards lapse.
PSP awards will vest on a opportunities have been established and implemented.
SharePlan time-apportioned basis on the normal time-apportioned basis Any other scenario in Boardappointments have also discussed the Groups senior management structure vesting date subject to any relevant unless the performance which the Remuneration One of the primary objectives of the Nomination Committee and how that might evolve as Merlin continues its international performance condition s measured period is complete or unless Committee determines during the year has been to address the final elements of the expansion.
The Group has already recruited well during 2014 over the full performance period.
the Committee determines that good leaver composition of the Board arising from its transition from in specific senior management roles to enhance certain otherwise and subject to the treatment is However, in the event of death, Committees determination private to public markets.
activities and build the future talent pipeline.
appropriate other than or special circumstances at the of the extent to which any circumstances justifying Remuneration Committees discretion, relevant performance summary dismissal.
awards may vest early based on Early in the year the Committee confirmed the previously As a result of the work undertaken during 2014, the Board and conditions are satisfied.
the Committees determination of announced appointment of Fru Hazlitt who joined the Company Nomination Committee have a clear line of sight on what issues the extent to which any relevant in April 2014.
Her extensive experience in the entertainment need to be addressed and of the plans management has in place.
industry is a valuable addition to our Board and will bring a We are encouraged by the depth of talent available within the The Committee has the discretion, diversity of knowledge and perspective to our deliberations.
Group as cover for all our key positions.
acting fairly and reasonably, to dis-apply time apportionment.
We have also continued to focus on the process of recruiting Diversity further independent Non-executive Directors.
This is intended to Merlins policy is for our leaders to have a diversity of thinking, Company Options become exercisable for a Options lapse.
Options will become ensure full Code compliance by the time of the Annual General experience, gender, country of origin and cultural background.
ShareOption period of six months after the date on exercisable on a timeMeeting AGM in May 2015, and also takes into account the We believe a diverse Board and management team is more in Plan which the Committee determines the apportioned basis unless reduction in shareholdings of Blackstone and CVC in the period touch with our customers, employees and investors.
While we Executive extent to which the option becomes any performance period is following the IPO with the consequential potential impact on have not established diversity targets or measures at this time this Directors will exercisable or twelve months in the complete or unless the only receive event of death.
Committee determines the future composition of the Board.
policy is reflected in the approach we are taking to recruitment CSOP awards otherwise and subject to the at senior manager and Board level.
Options will become exercisable in exceptional Committees determination To assist us we have engaged Spencer Stuart, an independent subject to the Committees circumstances.
of the extent to which any determination of the extent to which executive search consultancy already familiar with Merlin and relevant performance any relevant performance conditions our strategic intentions.
Reflecting our ambitions for growth, SirJohnSunderland Individuals who conditions are satisfied.
are satisfied and on a time-apportioned are promoted our search has an Asian and North American geographical  basis unless the Committee determines to the Board emphasis and will ensure we benefit from first-hand leisure 25 February 2015 otherwise.
In relation to HMRCmay have industry experience to develop a Board with a wider skill set unapproved options, options may outstanding become exercisable at the normal and appropriate leaders for each of our Committees.
awards under vesting date or earlier if the this plan.
Shortly after the year end Miguel Ko confirmed that he will step down as a Non-executive Director and will not put himself UKSharesave Options become exercisable immediately on death, ceasing employment due to injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, sale of forward for re-election at the 2015 AGM, having taken a full time Scheme the employing company or business to which an individuals employment relates out of the Group or on a change of control executive position in Asia.
Miguel joined the Board shortly before Overseas of the Company.
Merlins IPO in November 2013 and has made a wise and Sharesave valuable contribution to Merlin, in particular through his Scheme knowledgeable insights into the Asian leisure markets.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express our thanks.
USEmployee Options become exercisable on death, ceasing employment due to injury, permanent disability, reaching normal retirement StockPurchase age, sale of the employing company or business to which an individuals employment relates or on a change of control of Plan the Company.
