Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk factors The principal risks discussed below are the risks and uncertainties Healthcare Products, and affect not only the cost of product relevant to our business, financial condition and results of operations development but also the time required to reach the market and that may affect our performance and ability to achieve our objectives.
the uncertainty of successfully doing so.
The factors below are those that we believe could cause our actual Moreover, as rules and regulations change, and governmental results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
interpretation of those rules and regulations evolves, the nature of a We operate on a global basis in an industry that is both highly particular risk may change.
Changes to certain regulatory regimes competitive and highly regulated.
Our competitors may make may be substantial.
Any change in, and any failure to comply with, significant product innovations and technical advances and may applicable law and regulation could materially and adversely affect intensify price competition.
In light of this competitive environment, our financial results.
continued development of commercially viable new products and the Similarly, our business exposes us to litigation and government development of additional uses for existing products are critical to investigations, including but not limited to product liability litigation, our ability to maintain or increase overall sales.
patent and antitrust litigation and sales and marketing litigation.
Litigation Developing new pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare and government investigations, including related provisions we may products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process, however, and a make for unfavourable outcomes and increases in related costs such as product candidate may fail at any stage, including after significant insurance premiums, could materially and adversely affect our financial Group economic and human resources have been invested.
More detail on the status and various uncertainties involved in competitors products or pricing strategies or any failure on our the significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation is set out in part to develop commercially successful products, or to develop Note 45, Legal proceedings, on page 206. additional uses for existing products, could materially and adversely UK regulations require a discussion of the mitigating activities a affect our financial results.
company takes to address principal risks and uncertainties.
A We must also adapt to and comply with a broad range of laws summary of the activities that the Group takes to manage each of our and regulations.
These requirements apply to research and principal risks accompanies the description of each principal risk development, manufacturing, testing, approval, distribution, below.
The principal risk factors and uncertainties are not listed in sales and marketing of Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer order of signicance.
Patient safety Risk denition of paramount importance, and the CMO has the authoritative role for Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report adverse events evaluating and addressing matters of human safety.
Individual Medical from all potential sources, and to act on any relevant findings in a timely Ofcers and the Groups substantial Global Safety and manner.
Pharmacovigilance organisation keep track of any adverse issues reported for our products during the course of clinical studies.
Risk impact Once a Group product is approved for marketing, the Group has an The impact of this risk is potentially to compromise our ability to conduct robust safety signal detection and interpretation and to ensure that extensive post-marketing surveillance and signal detection system.
Information on possible side effects of medicines is received from several appropriate decisions are taken with respect to the risk benefit prole of our products, including the completeness and accuracy of product labels sources including unsolicited reports from health professionals and patients, regulatory authorities, medical and scientific literature and the and the pursuit of additional studies analyses, as appropriate.
This could lead to potential harm to patients, reputational damage, product liability media.
It is our policy that employees are required to report immediately any issues relating to the safety or quality of its medicines.
Each of our claims or other litigation, governmental investigation, regulatory action such as fines, penalties or loss of product authorisation.
country managers is responsible for monitoring, exception tracking and training that helps assure the collection of safety information and Context reporting the information to the relevant central safety department, in Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development of accordance with Group policy and legal requirements.
investigational Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare Information that changes the benefit risk prole of one of the Groups Products to determine the safety and efcacy of the products for use by medicines will result in certain actions to characterise, communicate and humans.
Notwithstanding the efforts we make to determine the safety of minimise the risk.
Proposed actions are discussed with regulatory our products through appropriate pre-clinical and clinical trials, authorities and can include modifying the prescribing information, unanticipated side effects may become evident only when products are communications to physicians and other healthcare providers, widely introduced into the marketplace.
Questions may be raised not only restrictions on product prescribing availability to help assure safe use, by our ongoing safety surveillance and post-marketing studies but also by and sometimes carrying out further clinical trials.
In certain cases, it may governmental agencies and third-parties that may analyse publicly be appropriate to stop clinical trials or to withdraw the medicine from the available clinical trial results.
The Groups Global Safety Board GSB, comprising senior The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability physicians and representatives of supporting functions, is an integral lawsuits, including class actions, that involve significant claims for component of the system.
The GSB including subsidiary boards damages related to our products.
Litigation, particularly in the US, is dedicated to Consumer Healthcare Products and Vaccines reviews the inherently unpredictable.
Class actions that seek to sweep together all safety of investigational and marketed products across the Group and persons who were prescribed our products increase the potential liability.
has the authority to stop a clinical trial if continued conduct of such trial is Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages are frequently not ethically or scientically justied in light of information that has asserted in product liability actions and, if allowed, can represent emerged since the start of the trial.
potentially open-ended exposure and thus, could materially and adversely In addition to the medical governance framework within the Group as affect the Groups financial results.
described above, the Group uses several mechanisms to foster the early Mitigating activities evaluation, mitigation, and resolution of disputes as they arise and of The Chief Medical officer CMO is responsible for medical governance potential claims even before they arise.
The goal of the programmes is to for the Group under a global policy.
Under that policy, safeguarding create a culture of early identication and evaluation of risks and claims human subjects in our clinical trials and patients who take our products is actual or potential, in order to minimise liability and litigation.
232 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Intellectual property Risk denition We depend on certain key products for a significant portion of our Failure to appropriately secure and protect intellectual property sales.
One such product is our respiratory pharmaceutical product rights.
Seretide Advair which accounts for 18% of Group sales worldwide.
The timing and impact of entry in the US for a generic product Risk impact containing the same combination of active substances as Seretide Any failure to obtain or subsequent loss of patent protection, Advair is uncertain.
The US patent for compositions containing the including reducing the availability or scope of patent rights or combination of active substances in Seretide Advair expired during compulsory licensing in which a government forces a manufacturer 2010 although the US patent on a component of the Advair Diskus to license its patents for specic products to a competitor, could device continues until August 2016.
Generic products containing the materially and adversely affect our financial results in those markets.
same combination of active substances as Seretide Advair in both Absence of adequate patent or data exclusivity protection could limit metered dose inhalers and dry powder inhalers have been launched the opportunity to rely on such markets for future sales growth for our by several manufacturers in a number of European markets.
The products, which could also materially and adversely affect our timing and impact of entry in the US and major markets in Europe financial results.
for a follow-on product to Seretide Advair is uncertain.
Context Generic drug manufacturers have also exhibited a readiness to As an innovative Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare market generic versions of many of our most important products Products company, we seek to obtain appropriate intellectual prior to the expiration of our patents.
Their efforts may involve property protection for our products.
Our ability to obtain and enforce challenges to the validity or enforceability of a patent or assertions patents and other proprietary rights with regard to our products is that their generic product does not infringe our patents.
As a result, critical to our business strategy and success.
Pharmaceutical and we are and may continue to be involved in legal proceedings Vaccine products are usually only protected from being copied by involving patent challenges, which may materially and adversely generic manufacturers during the period of exclusivity provided by affect our financial results.
Moreover, in the US, it has become an issued patent or related intellectual property rights such as increasingly common for patent infringement actions to prompt Regulatory Data Protection or Orphan Drug status.
Following claims that anti-trust laws have been violated during the prosecution expiration of certain intellectual property rights, a generic of the patent or during litigation involving the defence of that patent.
manufacturer may lawfully produce a generic version of the product.
Such claims by direct and indirect purchasers and other payers are typically led as class actions.
The relief sought may include treble We operate in markets where intellectual property laws and patent damages and restitution claims.
Similarly, anti-trust claims may be ofces are still developing and where governments may be unwilling brought by government entities or private parties following to grant or enforce intellectual property rights in a fashion similar to settlement of patent litigation, alleging that such settlements are more developed regions such as the EU, Japan and the US.
Some anti-competitive and in violation of anti-trust laws.
A successful developing countries have limited, or threatened to limit, effective anti-trust claim by a private party or government entity could patent protection for pharmaceutical products generally, or in materially and adversely affect our financial results.
particular therapeutic areas, in order to facilitate early competition within their markets from generic manufacturers.
The expiration dates for patents for our major products which may affect the dates on which generic versions of our products may be We face competition from manufacturers of proprietary and generic introduced are set out on pages 229 to 231.
Legal proceedings pharmaceutical products in all of our major markets.
Introduction of involving patent challenges are set out in Note 45 to the financial generic products, particularly in the US where we have our highest statements, Legal proceedings.
turnover and margins, typically leads to a rapid and dramatic loss of sales and reduces our revenues and margins for our proprietary Mitigating activities products.
In 2014, we had nine Pharmaceutical and Vaccine Our Global Patents group focuses on securing and protecting our products with over 500 million in annual global sales.
For certain of patent rights.
This global group maintains internal processes these products, there is generic competition in the US and some designed to help ensure successful procurement, enforcement and markets in Europe.
We may also experience an impact on sales of defence of our patents with the goal of maintaining exclusive rights in one of our products due to the expiry or loss of patent protection for markets for our products.
a product marketed by a competitor in a similar product class or for treatment of a similar disease condition.
The Global Patents group monitors new developments in international patent law to help ensure appropriate protection of our assets.
Sometimes acting through trade associations, we work with local governments to seek to secure effective and balanced intellectual property protection designed to meet the needs of patients and payers while supporting long-term investment in innovation.
GSK Annual Report 2014 233 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk factors continued Product quality Risk denition We have adopted a single Quality Management System QMS Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practice that defines our quality standards and systems for our businesses cGMP requirements in commercial manufacture, through the associated with Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer distribution chain, by GSK, its contractors or suppliers: or through Healthcare Products and R&D investigational materials.
The QMS inadequate controls and governance of quality through product has a broad scope, covering the end-to-end supply chain from development, and in supporting regulated activities.
starting materials to distributed product, and is applicable throughout the complete lifecycle of products from R&D to mature Risk impact commercial supply.
A failure to ensure product quality could have far reaching implications in terms of patient and consumer safety, delays in The QMS is periodically updated based on experience, evolving launching new products, drug shortages, product recalls, potential regulatory agency expectations and requirements and improved damage to our reputation and that of the relevant product, as well scientific understanding to help ensure that operations comply as regulatory, legal, and financial consequences, which could with cGMP requirements globally, and support the delivery of materially and adversely affect our reputation and financial results.
A large network of quality and compliance professionals is aligned with each business unit to Context provide oversight and assist the delivery of quality performance Patients, consumers and healthcare professionals trust the quality and operational compliance.
Management oversight of those of our products.
A failure to ensure product quality is an enterprise activities is accomplished through a hierarchy of quality council risk which is applicable across all of our business activities.
Staff are trained to help ensure that standards, as well Product quality may be inuenced by many factors including as expected behaviours based on our values, are followed.
product and process understanding, supply chain security, Refresher training on cGMP issues includes a focus on the issues consistency of manufacturing components, compliance with GMP, raised in inspectional trends.
accuracy of labeling, reliability of the external supply chain, and the embodiment of an overarching quality culture.
The internal and We have implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and external environment continues to evolve as new products, new managing our third-party suppliers that provide materials used in markets and new legislation are introduced, particularly around nished products.
Contract manufacturers making our products are security of supply, good distribution practice and product expected to comply with standards identied by the Group and are standards.
Inspectional trending from national authorities during audited to help provide assurance that expected standards are met.
2014 has highlighted a focus on issues relating to data integrity, The Chief Product Quality officer oversees the activities of the contamination and the robustness of quality investigations.
GSK Quality Council which serves as a forum to escalate emerging risks, share experiences of handling quality issues from Mitigating activities all of our businesses and help ensure that lessons learned are In medicines development, scientists adopt the principles of quality assessed and deployed globally.
The preparation for and by design for new products and devise control strategies to be implementation of new legislation is regularly reviewed by the GSK deployed throughout the product lifecycle to help ensure Quality Council and advocacy and communication programmes consistency and reliability in their performance and supply.
are used to maintain awareness of the external environment and convey consistent messages across the Group.
There is emphasis on quality performance metrics and a culture of right first time.
234 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Supply chain continuity Risk denition The failure of a small number of single-source, third-party suppliers Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant nished product.
or service providers to fulll their contractual obligations in a timely manner or as a result of regulatory non-compliance or physical Risk impact disruption of logistics and manufacturing sites may result in delays A material interruption of supply or exclusion from healthcare or service interruptions.
programmes could impact patient access to our products, expose us to litigation or regulatory action and materially and adversely Mitigating activities affect our financial results.
In particular, the incurring of fines or Our supply chain model is designed to help ensure the supply, disgorgement as a result of noncompliance with manufacturing quality and security of our products globally.
We closely monitor, practice regulations could also materially and adversely affect the through the Supply Chain Governance Committees, the inventory Groups financial results and result in reputational damage.
status and delivery of our products to help ensure that our customers have the medicines, vaccines and products they need.
Context Safety stocks and backup supply arrangements for high revenue Our supply chain operations are subject to review and approval by and medically-critical products are in place, where practical, to various regulatory agencies that effectively provide our licence to help mitigate this risk.
In addition, the compliance of manufacturing operate.
Failure by our manufacturing and distribution facilities or external suppliers is routinely monitored in order to identify and by suppliers of key services and materials could lead to litigation or manage supply base risks.
regulatory action such as product recalls and seizures, interruption of supply, delays in the approval of new products, and suspension Where practical, dependencies on single sources of critical items of manufacturing operations pending resolution of manufacturing are removed.
Our reliance on single source components was or logistics issues.
In 2014, our Consumer Healthcare business, reduced in 2014 for some key products through qualication of particularly our Smokers Health products, alli and Bactroban, alternative materials that will help improve supply chain robustness.
were impacted by various supply issues and our Vaccines In cases, where dual sourcing is not possible, an inventory strategy business, particularly our hepatitis vaccines and Boostrix, has been developed to protect the supply chain from unanticipated were impacted by supply constraints.
Materials and services provided by third-party suppliers are In 2014, we continued to implement anti-counterfeit systems such necessary for the commercial production of our products, including as product serialization in accordance with emerging requirements to mitigate this risk.
active pharmaceutical ingredients API, antigens, intermediates, commodities and components necessary for the manufacture and Throughout 2014, our supply chain operating model was improved packaging of many of our Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer to strengthen the link between commercial forecasting and Healthcare Products.
Some of the third-party services procured, manufacturing by implementation of the Core Commercial such as services provided by contract manufacturing organizations Cycle methodology.
This action will over time, decrease the risk and clinical research organisations to support development of key associated with demand uctuations impacting ability to supply or products, are important to ensure continuous operation of our write-offs associated with product exceeding expiry dating.
Although we undertake business continuity planning, the new model, each node of the supply chain is being optimised single sourcing of certain components, bulk API, nished products, to help ensure adequate safety stock while balancing working and services creates a risk of failure of supply in the event of capital associated with the end-to-end supply chain.
regulatory non-compliance or physical disruption at the manufacturing sites or logistics system.
Financial reporting and disclosure Mitigating activities Risk denition The Group maintains a control environment designed to identify Failure to report accurate financial information and material events in compliance with accounting standards and applicable legislation.
material errors in financial reporting and disclosure.
The design and operating effectiveness of key financial reporting controls Risk impact is periodically tested.
This provides us with the assurance that Non-compliance with existing or new financial reporting and controls over key financial reporting and disclosure processes disclosure requirements, or changes to the recognition of income have operated effectively.
and expenses, could expose us to litigation and regulatory action and could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
We keep up-to-date with the latest developments in financial reporting requirements by working with our external auditors and Context legal advisors to help ensure adherence to relevant reporting and New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations disclosure requirements.
issued from time to time by the International Accounting Standards Board could result in changes to the recognition of income and There is shared accountability for financial results across our expense that may materially and adversely affect our financial results.
Financial results are reviewed and approved by regional management and then reviewed with the Financial The Group is also required by the laws of various jurisdictions to Controller and the Chief Financial officer CFO.
This allows our disclose publicly its financial results and events that could materially Financial Controller and our CFO to assess the evolution of the affect the financial results of the Group.
Regulators routinely review business over time, and to evaluate performance to plan.
significant the financial statements of listed companies for compliance with judgments are reviewed and confirmed by senior management.
The Group believes that it complies with the appropriate regulatory requirements concerning The Group maintains a Disclosure Committee which reports to our financial statements and disclosure of material information.
the Board which reviews the Groups quarterly results and Annual However, should we be subject to an investigation into potential Report and determines throughout the year, in consultation with non-compliance with accounting and disclosure requirements, there its legal advisors, whether it is necessary to disclose publicly is potential for restatements of previously reported results and we information about the Group through Stock Exchange could be subject to significant penalties.
GSK Annual Report 2014 235 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk factors continued Tax and treasury Risk denition Liquidity risk is managed by diversifying our liquidity sources using Failure to comply with current tax law, or react to the rapidly a range of facilities and by maintaining broad access to funding evolving tax environment.
Incurring significant losses due to markets in order to meet anticipated future funding requirements.
We also hold significant amounts of cash and investments which are invested in line with strict investment guidelines.
Risk impact Changes in tax laws or in their application with respect to matters Interest rate risk is managed by limiting the amount of oating rate such as transfer pricing, foreign dividends, controlled companies, interest payments to a prescribed percentage of operating profit, R&D tax credits, taxation of intellectual property or a restriction in and the mix of debt at xed and oating interest rates is monitored tax relief allowed on the interest on intra-group debt, could impact regularly by the TMG.
significant losses may arise from Treasury Foreign currency transaction risk arising on internal and external activities through inconsistent application of Treasury policies, trade ows is not generally hedged.
Our internal trading dealing or settlement errors, or counterparty defaults.
Any such transactions are matched centrally, and we manage inter-company changes in tax laws or their application, failure to comply with tax payment terms to reduce foreign currency risk.
Foreign currency law or significant losses due to treasury activities could materially cash ows can be hedged selectively under the management of and adversely affect our financial results.
Where possible, we manage the cash Context surpluses or borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies Our Treasury group deals in high value transactions, mostly foreign centrally.
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, exchange and cash management transactions, on a daily basis.
we seek to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our principal assets and cash ows.
The TMG reviews the ratio of The Groups effective tax rate is driven by rates of tax in borrowings to assets for the major currencies monthly.
jurisdictions that are both higher and lower than the UK.
In addition, many jurisdictions currently offer regimes that encourage Counterparty risk is managed by setting global counterparty limits innovation and investment in science by providing tax incentives, for each of our banking and investment counterparties based on such as R&D tax credits and lower tax rates on income derived long-term credit ratings from Moodys and Standard and Poors.
Furthermore, as an international business, we face Treasurys usage of these limits is monitored daily by a Corporate risks associated with intra-group transfer pricing.
Compliance officer CCO who operates independently of Corporate Treasury.
The CCO also monitors the credit rating of The tax charge included in our financial statements is our best these counterparties and, when changes in ratings occur, noties estimate of tax liability pending audits by tax authorities.
We submit Treasury so that changes can be made to investment levels or to tax returns according to statutory time limits and engage tax authority limits as appropriate.
authorities to help ensure our tax affairs are current.
In exceptional cases where matters cannot be settled by agreement with tax Further details on mitigation of Treasury Risks can be found on authorities, we may have to resolve disputes through formal page 190, Note 41, Financial instruments.
As an international business, we are We monitor government debate on tax policy in our key also subject to a range of other duties and taxes carrying similar jurisdictions to deal proactively with any potential future changes in types of risk.
Tax risk is managed by a set of policies and procedures to There is an increased focus on the tax position of multinational help ensure consistency and compliance with tax legislation.
We businesses, as a consequence of the challenging economic engage advisors and legal counsel to review tax legislation and environment and the priority placed by the G20 on addressing applicability to our business.
allegations of unlawful tax avoidance.
We have seen some increase We attempt to mitigate the risk of more aggressive tax authority in audits as governments seek to raise revenues, both from audits by being as up to date as possible with our tax affairs and corporate taxes and above the line taxes such as customs duties.
working proactively with tax authorities where possible.
We have Such audits regardless of their merit or outcomes can be costly, also moved to a more centralised and simplied intellectual divert management attention and may adversely impact our reputation.
In addition, there are an increasing number of changes property ownership and trading model.
The model centralises our to the international tax framework which could lead to an increase Pharmaceutical intellectual property in the UK, reducing the or decrease in our tax costs.
complexity of our inter-company arrangements and enabling us to drive more bilateral Advance Pricing Agreements APAs between Mitigating activities the UK and other jurisdictions where we operate.
APAs give The Groups Treasury function does not operate as a profit centre greater certainty to the application of transfer pricing and our and does not enter into financial derivative transactions for direct tax affairs and hence reduce risks.
A centralised team of speculative purposes.
All transactions in financial instruments are dedicated specialists are responsible for managing transactional undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business tax reporting and compliance.
Treasury activities are governed by policies approved by the Board of Directors and compliance is regularly reviewed by the Treasury Management Group TMG, which is chaired by the CFO.
236 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Anti-bribery and corruption Risk denition Mitigating activities There is a risk that GSK personnel, or third parties acting on our Our Code of Conduct, values and behaviours and commitment to behalf, seek to induce improper performance of someones role in zero tolerance are integral to how we mitigate this risk.
In light of order to gain or retain GSK a business advantage through the the complexity and geographic breadth of this risk, we constantly offer, promise or giving of a bribe.
This goes against our ethical enhance our oversight of activities and data, reinforce to our standards and is contrary to the laws by which we are bound.
employees and contractors clear expectations regarding acceptable behaviours, and maintain on-going communications Risk impact between the Group centre headquarters and local markets.
Failure to mitigate this risk could expose the Group and associated persons to governmental investigation, regulatory action and civil The Group has an enterprise-wide ABAC programme designed and criminal liability, as well as damage the Groups reputation, to respond to the threat and risk of bribery and corruption.
It shareholder value, and our licence to operate in particular builds on the Groups values and existing standards to form a jurisdictions, all of which could materially and adversely affect our comprehensive and practical approach to compliance.
programme is supported by: top-level commitment from the Group Board of Directors and leadership throughout the business: Context ongoing risk assessment: a global policy: control documents that We are exposed to bribery and corruption risk through our global address commercial and other practices that give rise to ABAC business operations.
In some markets, the government structure risk: due diligence of high risk third parties: ongoing training and and the rule of law are less developed, and this has a bearing on communications: a condential reporting line: monitoring of our bribery and corruption risk exposure.
In addition to the global compliance and an investigations team.
In addition, the programme nature of our business, the healthcare sector is highly competitive mandates enhanced controls over interactions with government and subject to regulation.
This increases the instances where we ofcials and when undertaking business development are exposed to activities and interactions with bribery and transactions.
Programme governance is provided by the Groups corruption risk.
ABAC Oversight Committee which includes representation from As has previously been disclosed, the Group in 2014 has been key functional areas and business units.
subject to regulatory action and media focus with regard to bribery Additionally, we have a dedicated ABAC team responsible for the investigations in China and other markets.
On 19 September 2014, implementation and evolution of the programme in response to the Group announced that the Changsha Intermediate Peoples developments in the internal and external environment.
This is Court in Hunan Province, China ruled that, according to Chinese complemented with ABAC investigations and ABAC Audit teams law, GSK China Investment Co. Ltd GSKCI had offered money which have separate reporting lines.
or property to non-government personnel in order to obtain We continually benchmark our ABAC programme against other improper commercial gains, and been found guilty of bribing large multi-national companies and use external expertise to review non-government personnel.
The verdict followed investigations and help improve elements of our ABAC programme.
As a result initiated by Chinas Ministry of Public Security in June 2013.
As a of the China and other country investigations, the Group has result of the Courts verdict, GSKCI has paid a ne of RMB increased resources in both its centrally located ABAC team as 3 billion 301 million to the Chinese government.
well as regional ABAC teams.
The US and UK authorities are leading extra-territorial ABAC inquires into certain of the Groups operations.
These investigations are further discussed in Note 45 Legal Proceedings.
GSK Annual Report 2014 237 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk factors continued Commercial practices and scientific engagement Risk denition At times, researchers, HCPs, healthcare organisations HCOs Failure to engage in commercial and or scientific activities that are and other external experts that we engage may be compensated consistent with the letter and spirit of legal, industry, or the for services and expertise provided.
However, payments must not Groups requirements relating to marketing and communications be excessive and must never be or be perceived to be an about our medicines and associated therapeutic areas: inducement or reward for prescribing our products.
Consistent appropriate interactions with healthcare professionals HCPs and with our ABAC policies, they also must comply with a markets patients: and legitimate and transparent transfer of value.
ABAC laws if the recipient of any payment is a government ofcial.
Risk impact Mitigating activities Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may We have taken action at all levels of the Group to enhance and result in governmental investigation, regulatory action and legal improve standards and procedures for scientific Engagement and proceedings brought against the Group by governmental and promotional interactions, based on our values of transparency, private plaintiffs.
Failure to provide accurate and complete respect, integrity and patient focus.
We have policies and information related to our products may result in incomplete standards governing promotional activities and scientific awareness of the benefit:risk prole of our medicines and possibly Engagement undertaken by the Group or on its behalf.
All of these suboptimal treatment of patients.
Any of these consequences activities we conduct worldwide must conform to high ethical, could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
Any medical, and scientific standards.
Where local standards differ practices that are found to be misaligned with our values could from global standards, the more stringent of the two applies.
also result in reputational damage and dilute trust established with The Group has harmonized policies and procedures to guide key stakeholders.
In 2012, we paid $3 billion to resolve above country Commercial Practices and scientific Engagement government investigations in the US focused in large part on processes as well as claried applicable standards when promotional practices.
Specic accountability and authorisation Context for scientific Engagement resides within the Medical Governance framework that is overseen by the Medical Governance Executive We are committed to legitimate scientific Engagement and the Committee MGEC, accountable to the Chief Medical officer.
ethical and responsible commercialisation of medicines to support MGEC is responsible for oversight of applicable Policies and our mission to improve the quality of human life by enabling people ensuring the highest level of integrity and continuous development to do more, feel better, and live longer.
To accomplish this mission, of scientific Engagement at GSK.
Commercial Practices activities we engage the healthcare community in various ways to advance have oversight from both business unit Risk Management and our scientific knowledge as well as to provide important Compliance Boards RMCBs and Country Executive Boards information about our medicines.
CEBs that manage risks across in-country business activities.
The Group disseminates information about its products through All promotional materials and activities must be reviewed and both non-promotional scientific Engagement and promotional approved according to the Groups policies and standards, and activities.
The former is the interaction and exchange of information conducted in accordance with local laws and regulations, to help between the Group and partners and external communities in ensure that these materials and activities fairly represent the order to advance scientific and medical understanding including products or services of the Group.
When necessary, we have the appropriate development and use of our products: the disciplined up to and including termination employees who have management of disease: and patient care.
It is distinct from engaged in misconduct and have broadened our ability to claw promotional activities which may take place only after authorisation back remuneration from senior management in the event of of a new product or indication, and must be conducted strictly in misconduct.
accordance with promotional laws, codes and the Groups Policy.
During 2014, we took further proactive risk mitigation steps to Promotion of approved medicines helps ensure that HCPs globally assure our operations reect our values.
GSK publicly committed have access to information they need, that patients have access to to stop in 2016 various payments to HCPs and Healthcare the medicines they need and that medicines are prescribed and used in a manner that provides the maximum healthcare benefit to Organisations HCOs.
GSK also committed extended steps patients.
We are committed to communicating information related already taken in the US to changing its sales compensation model to our approved products in a responsible, legal, and ethical globally from one based on sales targets to an approach that manner.
individually rewards our sales force on the quality of their interactions with healthcare professionals, not on the end result.
238 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Research practices Risk denition Mitigating activities Failure adequately to protect and inform patients involved in human We established an Ofce of Animal Welfare, Ethics and Strategy clinical trial research: conduct objective, ethical preclinical and OAWES, led by the Chief of Animal Welfare, Ethics and Strategy, clinical trials using sound scientific principles: guarantee the integrity to help ensure the humane and responsible care of animals and of discovery, preclinical, and clinical development data: manage increase the knowledge and application of non-animal alternatives human biological samples according to established ethical for the Group.
OAWES embeds a framework of animal welfare standards and regulatory expectations: treat animals ethically and governance, promotes application of 3Rs replacement, renement practice good animal welfare: appropriately disclose human subject and reduction of animals in research, explores opportunities for research for medicinal products: and ensure the integrity of our cross-industry data sharing, and conducts quality assessments.
regulatory lings and of the data that we publish.
We report the results of our human subject research for our Risk impact medicines and vaccines on our publicly accessible clinical study The impacts of the risk include harm to patients, reputational register website, on government-required repositories, and we damage, failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for our submit human research results as manuscripts for publication in products, governmental investigation, legal proceedings product peer reviewed scientific journals.
During 2014, we disclosed over liability suits and claims for damages, and regulatory action such as 130 Clinical Study Reports of marketed and terminated medicines fines, penalties or loss of product authorisation, which could once the research results were published in the scientific literature materially and adversely affect our financial results.
In early 2014, the GSK online system to allow researchers to request access to anonymised patient-level data from Context the Groups clinical trials, was re-congured into a multi-sponsor Research relating to animals can raise ethical concerns.
While we request site, www.
com, to include studies attempt to proactively address this, animal studies remain a vital part conducted by other sponsors and by the end of 2014 we had listed of our research.
In many cases, they are the only method that can be over 1000 GSK trials available for request.
used to investigate the effects of a potential new medicine in a living body before it is tested in humans, and they are generally mandated We have a Global Human Biological Samples Management HBSM governance framework in place to oversee the ethical and lawful by regulators and ethically imperative.
Animal research can provide acquisition and management of human biological samples.
Our critical information about the causes of diseases and how they global HBSM network champions HBSM activities and provides an develop.
Some countries require additional animal testing even experienced group to support internal Sample Custodians on best when medicines have been approved for use elsewhere.
Clinical trials in healthy volunteers and patients are used to assess It remains an important priority to enhance our data integrity and demonstrate an investigational products efcacy and safety or controls.
During 2014 we established plans to develop new written further evaluate the product once it has been approved for standards to ensure the integrity of our data across Research and marketing.
We also work with human biological samples.
A Data Integrity Committee was established to samples are fundamental to the discovery, development and safety provide oversight and a Data Integrity Quality Assurance team was monitoring of our products.
created to provide independent business monitoring of our internal The integrity of our data is essential to success in all stages of the controls for R&D activities.
research data lifecycle: design, generation, recording and The Chief Regulatory officer oversees the activities of the management, analysis, reporting and storage and retrieval.
Our Regulatory Governance Board which includes promoting research data is governed by legislation and regulatory compliance with regulatory requirements and Group-wide requirements.
standards, making regulatory services more efficient and agile, and Research data and supporting documents are core components at further aligning regulatory capabilities with our international business various stages of pipeline progression decision-making and also needs at the enterprise and local levels.
form the content of regulatory submissions.
Poor data integrity can compromise our research efforts.
There are innate complexities and interdependencies required for regulatory lings, particularly given our global research and development footprint.
Rapid changes in submission requirements in developing countries continue to increase the complexity of worldwide product registration.
GSK Annual Report 2014 239 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk factors continued Environment, health and safety and sustainability Risk denition Mitigating activities Failure to manage environment, health and safety and sustainability The Corporate Executive Team is responsible for EHSS EHSS risks consistent with the Groups ethics, objectives, governance for the Group under a global policy.
Under that policy, policies and relevant laws and regulations.
the CET ensures there are systems in place to manage the risks, impacts and legal compliance issues that relate to EHSS and for Risk impact assigning responsibility to senior managers for providing and Failure to manage EHSS risks could lead to significant harm to maintaining those systems.
Individual managers are responsible for people, the environment and communities in which we operate, making sure the EHSS management system is effective and well fines, failure to meet stakeholder expectations and regulatory implemented in their respective business area and that it is fully requirements, litigation or regulatory action, and damage to the compliant with all applicable laws and regulations, adequately Groups reputation and could materially and adversely affect our resourced, maintained, communicated, and monitored.
Additionally, each employee is personally responsible for ensuring Context that all applicable local standard operating procedures are The Group is subject to health, safety and environmental laws of followed and expected to take responsibility for EHSS matters.
These laws impose duties to protect people, Our risk-based, proactive approach is articulated in our Global the environment and the communities in which we operate as well EHS Standards which support our EHSS policy and objective to as potential obligations to remediate contaminated sites.
We have discover, develop, manufacture, supply and sell our products also been identied as a potentially responsible party under the without harming people or the environment.
In addition to the US Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and design and provision of safe facilities, plant and equipment, we Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to operate rigorous procedures that help us eliminate hazards where our use or ownership of such sites.
Failure to manage these practicable and protect employees health and well-being.
Our environmental risks properly could result in litigation, regulatory employment practices are designed to create a work place culture action and additional remedial costs that may materially and in which all employees feel valued, respected, empowered and adversely affect our financial results.
See Note 45 to the financial inspired to achieve our goals.
statements, Legal proceedings, for a discussion of the environmental related proceedings in which we are involved.
We Through our continuing efforts to improve environmental routinely accrue amounts related to our liabilities for such matters.
sustainability we have reduced water consumption, hazardous waste, and energy consumption.
We actively manage our environmental remediation obligations to help ensure practices are environmentally sustainable and compliant.
Our EHSS performance results are shared with the public each year in our Responsible Business Supplement.
Information protection Risk denition Mitigating activities Risk to the Groups business activity if critical or sensitive The Group has a global information protection policy that is computer systems or information are not available when needed, supported through a dedicated programme of activity.
To increase are accessed by those not authorised, or are deliberately changed our focus on information security, the Group established the or corrupted.
Information Protection & Privacy function to provide strategy, direction, and oversight while enhancing our global information Risk impact security capabilities.
Failure to adequately protect critical and sensitive systems and information may result in our inability to maintain patent rights, loss We assess changes in our information protection risk environment of commercial or strategic advantage, damage to our reputation or through briengs by government agencies, subscription to commercial threat intelligence services and knowledge sharing business disruption including litigation or regulatory sanction and fines, which could materially and adversely affect our financial with other Pharmaceutical and cross-industry companies.
We aim to use industry best practices as part of our information Context security policies, processes and technologies and invest in strategies that are commensurate with the changing nature of the We rely on critical and sensitive systems and data, such as security threat landscape.
corporate strategic plans, sensitive personally identiable information, intellectual property, manufacturing systems and trade We are also subject to various laws that govern the processing of secrets.
There is the potential that malicious or careless actions Personally Identiable Information Pll.
To help ensure compliance expose our computer systems or information to misuse or with cross-border PII transfer requirements, the Groups Binding unauthorised disclosure.
Corporate Rules BCRs have been approved by the UK Information Commissioners Ofce for human resource and research activities data.
BCRs make it possible to transfer PII internationally between the Groups entities without individual privacy agreements in each European Union country.
240 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Crisis and continuity management Risk denition Mitigating activities Inability to recover and sustain critical operations following a CCM governance for the Group is set forth in a global policy.
disruption or to respond to a crisis incident in a timely manner.
Under that policy, each business unit and functional area head BU ensures effective crisis management and business Risk impact continuity plans are in place that include authorised response and Failure to manage crisis and continuity management CCM recovery strategies, key areas of responsibility and clear effectively can lead to prolonged business disruption, greater communication routes before a business disruption occurs.
damage to the Groups assets, and risk of supply disruption to Additionally, each BU is represented on a CCM governance board patients of a medicine, any of which could materially and adversely which performs risk oversight and provides vital information to the affect our financial results.
Delays to operational activities and CCM programme team regarding new threats, acquisitions or delivery of our products to consumers and patients who rely on significant business or organisational changes.
them could also expose us to litigation or regulatory action, materially and adversely affect our financial results and lead to A dedicated team of CCM experts supports the business.
Their responsibilities include: chairing the governance board: coordinating crisis management and business continuity training: Context facilitating exercises and monitoring to provide for global The Groups international operations, and those of its partners, consistency and alignment: and centrally storing and monitoring maintain a vast global footprint exposing our workforce, facilities, updates for plans supporting our critical business processes.
operations and information technology to potential disruption These activities help ensure an appropriate level of readiness and resulting from a natural event e. g. storm or earthquake, a manresponse capability is maintained.
We also develop and maintain made event e. g. civil unrest, terrorism, or a global emergency partnerships with external bodies like the Business Continuity e. g. Ebola outbreak, Flu pandemic.
Through effective crisis Institute and the UN International Strategy for Disaster Risk management and business continuity planning we are committed Reduction which helps improve our business continuity initiatives to providing for the health and safety of our people, minimising in disaster prone areas and supports the development of damage and impact to the Group, and maintaining functional community resilience to disasters.
operations following a natural or man-made disaster, or a public health emergency.
We continually improve our CCM risk management programme and tools based on learning from plan activations.
For example, the Group has implemented a Global Disaster Monitoring tool to monitor disruptions and support local crisis teams with guidance and central support as needed.
We regularly evaluate and introduce new tools to improve our CCM practices.
Third-Party Oversight Risk denition Mitigating activities Failure to maintain adequate governance and oversight over third-party It is our responsibility that all activities are performed safely and in relationships: failure of third-parties to meet their contractual, compliance with applicable laws and GSKs values, standards and regulatory, condentiality or other obligations: failure of third-parties to code of conduct.
Each business unit leadership team retains comply with the law or appropriately manage their respective ultimate accountability for managing third party interactions and operations to mitigate the Principal Risks to the Group outlined above.
risks, and for appropriately governing these interactions.
When working with third parties, all GSK employees are expected to Risk impact manage external interactions and commitments responsibly.
This Failure to adequately manage third-party relationships could result expectation is embedded in our values and code of conduct.
in business interruption and exposure to risk ranging from suboptimal contractual terms and conditions, to severe business To help guide and enforce our global principles for interactions sanctions and or significant reputational damage.
Any of these with third-parties we have in place a policy framework applicable consequences could materially and adversely affect our business to buying goods and services, managing our external spend, operations and financial results.
paying and working with our third-parties.
This policy framework applies to all employees and complementary workers worldwide.
Context The framework is complemented by technical and local standards Third parties are critical to our business delivery and are an integral designed to help ensure alignment with the nature of third party part of the solution to improve our productivity, quality, service and interactions, such as good manufacturing practice and adherence innovation.
We rely on third-parties, including suppliers, distributors, to local laws and regulations.
Independent business monitoring of individual contractors, licensees, and other pharmaceutical and key financial and operational controls is in place and is biotechnology collaboration partners for discovery, manufacture, and supplemented by periodic checks from the companys marketing of our products and important business processes.
However, these business relationships present a material risk.
To help enhance continuous monitoring and performance of third For example, we share critical and sensitive information such as party interactions we established in 2014 the Third Party Oversight marketing plans, clinical data, and employee data with specic programme.
This global programme takes an enterprise view of third parties who are conducting the relevant outsourced business third party related risks, and will help strengthen due diligence operations.
Inadequate protection or misuse of this information by efforts on third parties and improve overall management of third parties could have significant business impact.
Similarly, we our third party risks through the lifecycle of the third-party use distributors and agents in a range of activities such as engagement.
Oversight for the programme is provided from promotion and tendering which have inherent risks such as GSKs Global Ethics and Compliance group.
insufficient internal compliance and controls by the distributors could affect our reputation.
These risks are further increased by the complexities of working with large numbers of third parties.
