Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 31 Risk management Identifying and managing risks At a strategic level, our risk management Risk review process overseeing the risk management framework ARM has a robust risk objectives are to: and ensuring that the risk review process Strategic and operational risks are identied, management process in place is operating effectively.
The Executive prioritised and reported on within the Identify ARMs most significant strategic and Committee and the Board review the CRR toidentify key risks: assign Corporate Risk Register CRR.
The CRR operational risks ona regular basis.
includes a description of the overall risk, ownership for each risk at Develop plans to manage the risks identied, the risk factors, the risk owner and the risk with a clear owner assigned to each risk Internal audit assurance a senior management level: management activities, including operational and oversight activities as dened in the three ARMs internal audit function develops an identifyboth existing and planned Ensure that business growth plans are lines of defence model.
Residual risks are annual audit plan to provide assurance that the properly supported by an effective risk management activities against assessed in terms of likelihood and impact and risk management activities identied to mitigate management infrastructure mapped onto a Risk Heatmap.
Further risk risks are designed and operating effectively each risk: assess the residual Help executives improve the control and mitigation plans are dened to reduce the and that corrective action is being taken likelihood and impact of each risk: co-ordination of risk taking across residual risk if judged necessary.
the business plans are managed within the relevant and ensure ongoing monitoring objectives of the Groups operations and ARMs principal risks and uncertainties Ensure that ARMs assurance activities are and reporting of each key risk.
Risks are identied through senior focused on the organisations key risks ARMs strategy is to develop and deploy management discussion top down and regular energy-efficient technology: to enable Strategic risks are managed through a number reporting from every part of the business innovation through a broad ecosystem of of regular forums where key risks are discussed bottom up.
Partners, building on our shared success: and and existing management activities challenged.
to create superior returns for our shareholders These include regular sessions with both the The CRR is monitored by the Risk Review by investing in long-term growth.
ARMs Board and senior management.
Committee, chaired by Mike Muller, Chief principal risks may impede ARMs progress in Technology Officer.
The Risk Review executing this strategy.
The table on the next Operational risks are managed in accordance Committee meets on a quarterly basis to page shows ARMs principal risks and which with the ARM Management System AMS, review the CRR.
Each risk owner is required element of the strategy each could impact.
which defines key policies and processes toreview and demonstrate that risks are across the organisation.
ARM has a number being appropriately managed.
A more detailed ofprocesses in place to provide assurance explanation of the Risk Review Committees oncompliance with the AMS.
activities is included in the Governance and Financial Report 2014 on pages 25 to 26.
The Audit Committee is responsible for 32 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2014 Risk management continued... Key Strategic risks Primary strategic areas affected Change in 2014 A change in the industry business dynamic Gain share in long-term growth markets Not materially changed 1 may lead to loss of market share and or Increase value per smart device Risk materially increased reduction in value of IP Generate additional revenues from new technology Risk materially decreased A competitors product or technology may Investing in long-term growth 2 lead to loss of market share ARM may face challenges managing its 3 business in new geographic markets 8 ARMs technology may not meet customer 4 requirements in the future significant concentration in our customer 5 base may increase the risk to ARMs growth ambitions 6 1 2 7 9 ARMs current people, processes and or 6 infrastructure may not be adequately scalable 5 to meet our growth ambitions We could suffer significant damage to our 7 brand and reputation 3 4 ARM may have to defend itself against third- 8 parties who claim that we have infringed their proprietary rights Fundamental assumptions that underpin 9 ARMs valuation may be undermined, leading LOW MEDIUM HIGH to a sudden depreciation of share price Impact Likelihood LOW MEDIUM HIGH Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 33 1 2 A change in the industry business dynamic may lead to loss A competitors product or technology may lead to loss of market share and or reduction in value of IP of market share We work in the highly competitive and fast-moving semiconductor industry.
Many companies ARM faces competition both from large semiconductor companies and from smaller IP companies.
within this industry are well resourced and may consider processor and physical IP as attractive Intel is developing x86-based processors for use in PCs and servers, and is looking to deploy these markets for them to enter.
Start ups and open source technology initiatives could develop chips in markets such as tablets, mobile phones and embedded markets, including the Internet alternative ways for companies to design their chips.
The cost of developing software is of Things.
There are many small semiconductor IP companies competing with ARM, especially increasing in many end markets, which may also result in new technologies that might not suit in emerging markets, such as the Internet of Things where there are lower barriers to entry.
ARMs current product portfolio or skill set.
We may not be able to adapt to these changes, Any success by our competition would result in a reduction in royalty revenue to ARM.
resulting ina loss of market share.
Mitigation Change in 2014 Mitigation Change in 2014 ARM has over 380 Partners, and more ARM has gained share in key markets such ARM works closely with leading semiconductor During 2014, ARMs Partners announced than 1,000 companies in its ecosystem.
as enterprise infrastructure and the Internet companies who together have a long history advanced new chips based on our latest Each company utilises ARM technology in of Things, and retained a high share of of developing cost-efficient, low-power chips.
ARMv8 processors for a wide range of markets parts of their business, and we meet with application processors in smartphones and It has developed into a highly competitive including smartphones, tablets, consumer leading companies within our industry tablets.
Competition from well-nanced market and OEMs have enjoyed a wide choice electronics, enterprise networking and servers.
and related sectors to discuss their companies has continued, and has gained of chips with different capabilities and pricing.
ARM is well some share in the tablet market.
ARMs established ecosystem includes many Competitors have announced new alternative positioned to detect any change within software and chip design engineers who processors and chip designs.
In 2014, these the semiconductor industry and act understand how to build ARM-based chips and have seen limited adoption in smartphones, accordingly.
ARMs management team write software optimised for ARM processors.
and some adoption in tablets.
Longer term they reviews our strategy and our long-term ARM invests in this ecosystem to help further may be able to increase share in bothmarkets.
product development plans to test that we reduce the total cost of developing and are developing the technology to meet the maintaining a portfolio of ARM-based chips.
34 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2014 Risk management continued... 3 4 ARM may face challenges managing its business ARMs technology may not meet customer in new geographic markets requirements in the future Chinese semiconductor companies have become responsible for an increasingly significant The technology industry is characterised by rapid change, as new innovation continually improves proportion of ARMs revenues, and we expect that proportion to continue to grow.
India has the way that chips are designed and manufactured, how they are deployed by OEMs and how they had a strong semiconductor presence for many years, although revenues from that region are are used by consumers.
A change in the end market that does not favour ARM or our business smaller.
ARM has little knowledge and experience of the markets in Russia, South America and model could occur, requiring ARM to either change its investment approach or risk losing share.
Africa, which have different political and regulatory cultures to the markets in which we are Either way, ARM could become less profitable in the future as a result of such a market change.
In these regions, local governments are supporting and funding local technology companies, which could give rise to new competitors and new markets.
Mitigation Change in 2014 Mitigation Change in 2014 ARM has had offices in both China and India ARM grew its headcount in Asia including ARM has well-established processes for ARMs latest processor architecture is now for many years, and 22% of our workforce is India by 15% in 2014, and opened a product specication and development, and widely adopted, and in 2014 was deployed split between these two countries.
CPU design centre in Taiwan to work on we work with thought-leaders within various in consumer electronics and enterprise technology for the Internet of Things.
industries to ensure our technology is suitable infrastructure products.
ARM introduced for next-generation digital products.
We spend several new products during the year, all We have regional development offices to some of our R&D budget on long-term of which licensed within expectations.
support the other regions, and combined Industry regulators in some regions have programmes to investigate how new scientific We continued to track marketplace with regular visits by management, we track become more actively engaged with domestic developments might impact the industry, and developments by working with thought-leaders opportunities and meet local decision makers.
and foreign technology companies which can how technologies in adjacent markets might within the industry, and in adjacent markets.
impact ARM and our ecosystem.
Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 35 5 6 significant concentration in our customer base may increase ARMs people, processes and or infrastructure may not be the risk to ARMs growth ambitions adequately scalable to meet our growth ambitions Changes in technology trends and or economic conditions may cause further consolidation of We have grown our headcount rapidly over the last few years, as we have hired more engineers companies in the semiconductor sector, thereby reducing the number of customers that ARM to develop the next generation of processors and the supporting technology that our customers may sell its technology to and potentially making ARM more dependent on a smaller number need.
If this growth rate continues we may nd our existing organisational structure, culture of customers.
Any change to the product plans of a major customer may have an impact on andinfrastructure cannot be adapted to meet the greater number of staff.
the technology that ARM was developing, and so result in both additional costs anda delay in revenues.
Mitigation Change in 2014 Mitigation Change in 2014 We have licensed our processor technology In 2014, we saw consolidation amongst Our multi-year planning process includes ARM hired net 383 engineers and 78 to over 380 Partners, about half of whom are some of our customers through acquisition product development reviews alongside longsupporting staff in 2014, and we extended our now paying royalty revenues.
Much of our in consumer electronics, networking term investment plans for recruitment, training, office in Taiwan to include more development royalty and licence revenues are generated and microcontroller markets, and saw facilities and IT.
We also hold regular surveys capability.
During the year, we undertook by the top 20 semiconductor companies.
some companies exit the mobile market.
of employees to measure job satisfaction and an efficiency and effectiveness programme ARM typically develops multiple processors This consolidation has resulted in fewer, engagement levels across the organisation, and which took a detailed look at each team and each year, reducing the impact of a customer larger customers, and so an increase in the in sufficient detail to identify early problems made sure that we had the correct skill set and deciding notto license a particular product.
with specic teams, locations or departments.
In 2014, 65% of ARMs revenue came from our top 20 customers, down from 68% in 2013.
ARM signed 38 new customers mainly in fast-growing markets such as microcontrollers and the Internet of Things.
36 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2014 Risk management continued... 7 8 We could suffer significant damage to our ARM may have to defend itself against third-parties who brand and reputation claim that we have infringed their proprietary rights ARMs technology is used in billions of consumer and enterprise products, many of which are Whilst we take great care to establish and maintain the integrity of our products, we may have to depended on by individuals and businesses, and are used to store, manage or transmit huge protect our intellectual property or defend our technology against claims that we have infringed amounts of personal, condential or proprietary information.
A fault or bug associated with one others proprietary rights.
From time to time, third-parties may assert patent, copyright and other of ARMs products could damage ARMs corporate reputation and lead to a loss of brand value.
intellectual property rights to our technologies.
Any claim brought against us or our licensees ARM technology is becoming increasingly complex, which could increase the likelihood of a fault could result in substantial costs and we may be bound to indemnify our licensees under the terms or bug.
Mitigation Change in 2014 Mitigation Change in 2014 ARM continues to invest in the verication and In 2014, ARM opened a new data centre in We focus on designing and implementing In 2013, ARM was part of a consortium validation of its technology.
ARM has rigorous Austin, Texas, which will be used to increase our products without the use of intellectual of companies that acquired rights to the quality assurance and verication and validation the testing capability of the Company, so property belonging to third-parties, except patent portfolio of MIPS Technologies Inc. processes to reduce the risk of faults or bugs.
that we can better detect and x bugs before under strictly maintained procedures and with which removes the potential risk of future ARM regularly gathers feedback from its delivery to customers.
the benefit of appropriate licence rights.
In the litigation from those patents.
In early 2014, customers and Partners to determine whether event that a third-party successfully proves ARM acquired the patent portfolio outright.
the perception of ARM is changing, and ensure that it has intellectual property rights covering ARM isinvolved in no major patent suits at the that corrective action can be taken early if a product that we have licensed to customers, time of writing.
customers are becoming less satisfied with our we will take steps to either purchase a licence products or behaviour.
to use the relevant technology or work around the technology by developing our own solution so as to avoid infringement of that third-partys intellectual property rights.
Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 37 9 Fundamental assumptions that underpin ARMs valuation may Operational risks be undermined, leading to a sudden depreciation of share price In addition to the strategic risks, ARM closely manages its operational risks.
Many of these relate to the execution of the day-to-day running of the business including, but not limited to: ARMs valuation is based on the financial markets view of our growth opportunity and the value of ARMs assets.
Revisions to assessments of our future markets could impact estimated Efficient development of new technology Ensuring that the business is able to operate cash ows.
Changes to assumptions about the value of ARMs assets, including goodwill, could its systems and processes, and is able to Patenting new ideas and inventions lead to the impairment of certain of ARMs assets.
quickly recover from any failure Effective project and Ensuring that the business has adequate programme management protection against cyber-attack Exploration into new business opportunities Timely recruitment and training Mitigation Change in 2014 of employees Managing the ecosystem of companies At least once each year, we present to the In addition to our quarterly results, ARM thatsupport ARM technology Management of condential information and financial markets the latest forecasts on the hosted two investor days during 2014 commercially sensitive data growth of the semiconductor industry and which gave updates on our progress in new ARMs view of our opportunity to win share markets such as the Internet of Things and Mitigation Change in 2014 within that market.
The content of these As previously described, operational risks ARM instigated a number of programmes to events can be found on the ARM website at are managed in accordance with the ARM improve the efficiency of ARM technology www.
Management System which defines key development, and to make the business more policies and processes across the organisation.
agile when serving our customers.
All employees are required to review these policies and processes annually, and training is provided when newprocedures are introduced.
38 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2014 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 39 39 Connecting people to theirdata SimPrints Biometric Scanner will help improve the lives of people living in regions with poor infrastructure by accurately linking people to their digital records in the delivery of mobile services such as health care, micronance, and aid distribution.
This advanced prototype is powered by a Freescale Kinetis KL0x low-power microcontroller based on an ARM Cortex-M0 processor.
In addition, a low-cost mbed board from Freescale, the FRDM-KL05 which is also based on an ARM Cortex-M0 processor, is used in the manufacturing process to upload software into the scanners microcontroller.
com our-technology In this section: In this section: Our People 42 Our people 40 Where we operate 44 Where we operate 42 CSR 45 Corporate responsibility 43 Governance 48 Governance 46 Renumeration 50 Remuneration 48
