STRATEGIC REPORT RISK EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT Byron Grote AngloAmericans assessment of strategic, Chairman, Audit Committee operational, project and sustainable development related risks Understanding our key risks and developing appropriate responses are critical to our future 1 2 Identifying Analysing risks and success.
We are committed to a robust system risks controls to manage identified risks of risk identification and an effective response to such risks.
4 3 Reporting Determining and monitoring management actions required HOW WE MANAGE RISK Management of risk is critical to the success of AngloAmerican.
Our Group is exposed to a variety of risks that can have a financial, operational or reputational impact.
Effective management of risk supports the delivery of our objectives and the achievement of sustainable growth.
1 HOW DOES RISK RELATE TO OUR Identifying risks STRATEGIC INTENTS?
A robust methodology is used to identify key risks across the Group: at business units, operations and projects.
This Risks can arise from events outside of our control or from is being applied consistently through the development operational matters.
Each of the key risks described on the and ongoing implementation of a Group integrated risk following pages can have an impact on our ability to achieve management standard.
This is illustrated by reference to each of our strategic intents: 2 Where we compete: optimising our diverse portfolio We will focus management time and prioritise capital on Analysing risks and controls to manage identified risks the mining assets that offer us the most attractive long Once identified, the process will evaluate identified risks to term value creation potential establish root causes, financial and non-financial impacts and likelihood of occurrence.
Consideration of risk treatments is How we win: maximising our performance taken into account to enable the creation of a prioritised register.
We will maintain a highly competitive mindset, with innovation and outstanding delivery at the forefront of how we drive change 3 Critical core skills: creating a capable organisation Determining management actions required We will ensure that our people and organisation have Effectiveness and adequacy of controls are assessed.
the critical core skills, supported by key people systems, If additional controls are required, these will be identified to ensure we improve our returns.
For more information on the Sustainability Committee See page 76 4 For more information on the Audit Committee See page 78 Reporting and monitoring Management is responsible for monitoring progress of actions to treat key risks and is supported through the Groups internal audit programme, which evaluates the design and effectiveness of controls.
The risk management process is continuous: key risks are reported to the Audit Committee, with sustainability risks also being reported to the Sustainability Committee.
42 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS AT A GLANCE EXTERNAL OPERATIONAL Pages 4445 Pages 4647 Portfolio restructuring new risk None Commodity prices Increased risk Political, legal and regulatory Community relations Operational risk and project delivery Currency risk Environment No change Safety and health in risk Liquidity risk Event risk Inflation Infrastructure Information and cyber security None Employees Decreased risk As mining is a business that can span decades, many of its We also recognise that risks cannot be viewed in isolation.
attendant risks are long term in nature, and there may not Emergence of one risk may be caused by one or more be any significant change year-on-year.
The commentary other risks, or may cause another risk to emerge.
For provided on each risk is intended to highlight significant example, project delivery or production risk can be changes in the profile of individual risks or describe our influenced by risks relating to supply, inflation, political experience of the risk over the course of 2014. matters, legal and regulatory requirements, infrastructure or community relations.
This interconnectivity, and the The risks defined in this report are those we believe are relationship of risks to our above-mentioned strategic our principal risks.
In previous years we have reported risks elements, requires significant emphasis to be placed on relating to climate change, counterparty, exploration, supply the management of risk and the effectiveness of our risk chain, contractors, Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources, controls, with the identification and understanding of our bribery and corruption, joint ventures, and acquisitions and risks being the first step in what is a continuous process.
divestments, all of which we remain exposed to, though we do not consider them to be our principal risks.
Therefore, such risks are not discussed in the report.
The risks included in this report could threaten our ability to achieve our 2016 objectives.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 43 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK EXTERNAL RISKS COMMODITY PRICES Pillars of value: The prices of all the commodities that Root cause: Commodity prices are determined Increased risk AngloAmerican produces are subject to primarily by international markets and global wide fluctuation.
Demand for commodities Commentary: During will largely be determined by the strength of the 2014, prices of most of the Impact: Commodity price volatility can result in global economic environment.
commodities we mine weakened a material and adverse movement in the Groups as a result of lacklustre operating results, asset values, revenues and cash Mitigation: Our diverse commodity portfolio economic conditions in many of flows.
Falling commodity prices could prevent us provides some protection to this risk, and our our key markets and increased from completing transactions that are important policy is not to engage in commodity price supply of some products.
This to the business and which may have an adverse hedging.
We constantly monitor the markets in trend is expected to continue for effect on AngloAmericans financial position.
which we operate, reviewing capital expenditure some time.
programmes accordingly, so as to ensure the If commodity prices remain weak for a sustained supply of our products reflects forecast period, growth projects may not be viable and we market conditions.
may not be able to compete for new, complex projects that require significant capital investment.
Commodity prices are one of the significant factors that rating agencies use to determine credit rating.
POLITICAL, LEGAL AND REGULATORY Pillars of value: Wherever we operate, our businesses Root cause: The Group has no control over No change in risk may be affected by political or regulatory local political acts or changes in local tax rates.
developments, including changes to fiscal It recognises that its licence to operate through Commentary: Due to market regimes or other regulatory regimes.
mining rights is dependent on a number of factors, conditions, industry appetite including compliance with regulations.
for developing projects is low, Impact: Potential impacts include restrictions particularly where political risk on the export of currency, expropriation of assets, Mitigation: The Group actively monitors is high.
The commodity cycle imposition of royalties or other taxes targeted at regulatory and political developments on a downturn may reduce the ability mining companies, and requirements for local continuous basis.
of host governments to impose ownership or beneficiation.
Political instability can new taxes and royalties.
also result in civil unrest and nullification of existing However, there is a continuing agreements, mining permits or leases.
Any of need to manage government these may adversely affect the Groups operations relations in this period of or results of those operations.
INFORMATION AND CYBER SECURITY Pillars of value: The Group is exposed to risk of attack by Mitigation: Anti-virus software and general No change in risk third parties on our information systems.
computer controls provide a level of protection.
In addition, monitoring of networks is undertaken Commentary: The risk is Impact: Attacks on our information systems to identify suspicious activity in order that unchanged but we recognise may result in loss of sensitive or proprietary appropriate action can be taken.
We receive the threat is continually information and fraud.
Damage is possible to information on threats through security developing on a global basis.
equipment that is critical to mining or processing consultants and agencies on an ongoing basis.
of ore, resulting in interruption to production.
The Group also has an Information Security policy Root cause: Cyber risk arises from criminal that introduces the measures expected of activity to cause disruption or attempts by employees in handling sensitive information.
third parties to access sensitive information.
The pace of technological development makes it challenging for any organisation to prevent increasingly sophisticated methods of attacking information technology systems.
44 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report CURRENCY RISK Pillars of value: The Group is exposed to currency risk when Root cause: The global nature of the Groups No change in risk transactions are not conducted in US dollars.
businesses exposes the Group to currency risk.
Commentary: Further Impact: Fluctuations in the exchange rates of Mitigation: Given our Groups diversified nature, description of currency risk the most important currencies influencing our our policy is generally not to hedge currency risk.
and analysis of sensitivity to own operating costs and asset valuations the Mitigation in the form of foreign exchange hedging foreign exchange movement is South African rand, Chilean peso, Brazilian is limited to debt instruments and capital provided on pages 156157. real, Australian dollar, and pound sterling may expenditure on major projects.
materially affect the Groups financial results.
LIQUIDITY RISK Pillars of value: Our Group is exposed to liquidity risk in terms response to shock events.
Liquidity risk also arises No change in risk of being able to fund operations and growth.
when lenders are insecure about our long term cash generative capacity.
Commentary: All financing Impact: If we are unable to obtain sufficient credit needs have been met, as a result of prevailing capital market conditions, Mitigation: We have an experienced Treasury though capital availability for we may not be able to raise sufficient funds to team which is responsible for ensuring that there project development or meet ongoing financing needs, develop projects, are sufficient committed loan facilities in place acquisition is likely to be low compete for new projects requiring significant to meet short term business requirements after until existing commitments capital expenditure, or fund acquisitions.
As a taking into account cash flows from operations are fulfilled or a stronger result, our revenues, operating results, cash flows and holdings of cash, as well as any Group pricing environment exists.
or financial position may be adversely affected.
We limit exposure on The Groups access to liquidity or cost of funding liquid funds through a policy of minimum could be adversely influenced by any credit rating counterparty credit ratings, daily counterparty agency downgrade.
settlement limits and exposure diversification.
Root cause: Liquidity risk arises from uncertainty or volatility in the capital or credit markets owing to perceived weaknesses in the global economic environment, or possibly as a INFLATION Pillars of value: The Group is exposed to potentially high Root cause: Cost inflation in the mining sector is No change in risk rates of inflation in the countries in which more apparent during periods of high commodity it operates.
prices as demand for input goods and services Commentary: While operating can exceed supply.
improvements, restructuring Impact: Higher rates of inflation may increase and cost saving programmes future operational costs if there is no concurrent Mitigation: We closely manage costs through are contributing to financial depreciation of the local currency against the our business improvement and supply chain performance, some of the US dollar, or an increase in the dollar price of the initiatives and, where necessary, through benefits will be offset through applicable commodity.
This may have a negative adjusting employee and contractor numbers.
impact on profit margins and financial results.
The Driving Value programme has targeted a $500 million reduction in overheads by 2016.
PORTFOLIO RESTRUCTURING Pillars of value: Inability to achieve asset sales as planned.
Root cause: The current commodity market New risk climate is creating a challenging environment in Impact: Failure to achieve planned sales may which to sell assets.
Commentary: N A influence cash flow generation targets and ability to achieve required levels of return.
Mitigation: A strategy for the transaction process has been developed, aimed at maximising buyer interest.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 45 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK OPERATIONAL RISKS COMMUNITY RELATIONS Pillars of value: Disputes with communities may arise from ownership or other community matters may arise.
No change in risk time to time.
The Groups operations can have an impact on local communities, including the need, from time Commentary: Further Impact: Failure to manage relationships with to time, to relocate communities or infrastructure description of our work local communities, government and NGOs networks such as railways and utility services.
during 2014 to maintain and may disrupt operations and negatively affect improve relationships with our AngloAmericans reputation as well as our Mitigation: We have developed comprehensive stakeholders is provided on ability to bring projects into production.
processes to enable our business units to pages 3841. effectively manage relationships with communities Root cause: We operate in several countries where and we actively seek to engage with, and support, ownership of rights in respect of land and resources all communities affected by our operations.
is uncertain and where disputes in relation to ENVIRONMENT Pillars of value: Some of our operations create environmental significant.
Governments may force closure of No change in risk risk in the form of dust, noise or leakage of mines on a temporary or permanent basis or polluting substances, or through the potential refuse future mining right applications.
Commentary: Our for uncontrolled breaches of tailings dam environmental performance Root cause: The mining process, including facilities.
These can be harmful to our during 2014 is detailed on blasting and processing of orebodies, can employees, contractors and the communities pages 3335. generate dust and noise and requires the storage near our operations.
of waste materials in liquid form.
Impact: Potential impacts include fines and Mitigation: The Group implements a number penalties for past, current or future events, of standards to prevent, monitor and limit the statutory liability for environmental remediation impact of its operations on the environment.
and other financial consequences that may be EVENT RISK Pillars of value: Damage to physical assets from fire, and tailings dam walls, fire, explosion and No change in risk explosion, natural catastrophe or breakdown breakdown of critical machinery, with long lead of critical machinery.
Commentary: Management continues to implement Impact: The direct costs of repair or replacement Mitigation: Specialist consultants are engaged measures to mitigate this risk.
combined with business interruption losses can to analyse such event risks and provide result in financial losses.
recommendations to prevent or limit the effects of such a loss.
Contingency plans are developed Root cause: Some of our operations are located to respond to significant events and restore in areas exposed to natural catastrophes such as normal levels of business activity.
AngloAmerican earthquake extreme weather conditions.
The purchases insurance to protect itself against the nature of our operations exposes us to potential financial consequences of an event, subject to failure of mining pit slopes, underground shafts availability and cost.
INFRASTRUCTURE Pillars of value: Inability to obtain adequate supporting a number of countries.
Our operations and projects No change in risk facilities, services and installations can be located in areas where power and water water, power, road, rail and port, etc.. supplies are not certain and may be affected by Commentary: Details of population growth, the effects of climate change programmes to manage water Impact: Failure to obtain supporting facilities or lack of investment by owners of infrastructure.
consumption and power usage may affect the sustainability and growth of the We rely upon effective rail and port facilities for are provided on pages 3435. business, leading to loss of competitiveness, transporting our products.
We use third parties to market share and reputation.
Failure of rail or ship products to customers, if required.
port facilities may result in delays and increased costs, lost revenue, and a worsening reputation Mitigation: We seek to work closely with with customers.
Failure to procure shipping suppliers of infrastructure to mitigate the risk costs at competitive market rates may reduce of failure and have established contingency profit margins.
Long term agreements with suppliers are sought where appropriate.
Root cause: The potential disruption of ongoing generation and supply of power is a risk we face in 46 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report OPERATIONAL RISK AND PROJECT DELIVERY Pillars of value: Failure to meet production targets or Operational performance can be influenced No change in risk project delivery timetables and budgets.
by technical and engineering factors as well as events or circumstances that have an impact on Commentary: The Minas-Rio Impact: Increased unit costs may arise from other critical inputs to the mining and processing project achieved first ore on ship failure to meet production targets, thus affecting of minerals.
during 2014 refer to pages our operational and financial performance.
2223 and our focus is now Failure to meet project delivery timetables and Mitigation: Management oversight of operating on ramp up.
We continued budgets may delay cash inflows, increase capital performance and project delivery through regular to see improved operational costs, incur contractual penalties, and reduce executive management briefings, a continuous performance across our profitability, as well as have a negative impact focus on improvement of operations through business units as a result of on the Groups reputation.
our business improvement programme, and management actions.
consistent application of the Groups methodology Root cause: Increasing regulatory, for new projects, are vital aspects in managing environmental, access and social approvals can this risk.
increase construction costs and introduce delays.
SAFETY AND HEALTH Pillars of value: Failure to maintain high levels of safety Root cause: Mining is a hazardous industry No change in risk management can result in harm to our and working conditions such as weather, altitude employees, contractors and communities and temperature can add to the inherent Commentary: Details of safety near our operations.
Occupational health dangers of mining, whether underground or in performance and our approach risks to employees and contractors include open pit mines.
to health management are noise induced hearing loss, occupational provided on pages 3839.
Mitigation: AngloAmerican sets a very high lung diseases and tuberculosis TB.
In priority on safety and health matters.
A safety sub-Saharan Africa in particular, HIV AIDS is a and health risk management process, global threat to economic growth and development.
standards and a technical risk assurance Impact: In addition to injury and damage to programme form part of a consistently applied health, impacts could include fines and penalties robust approach to mitigating safety, health and for past, current or future issues, liability to environmental risk.
AngloAmerican provides employees or third parties, impairment of free anti-retroviral therapy to employees with AngloAmericans reputation, industrial action or HIV AIDS and undertakes education and inability to attract and retain skilled employees.
awareness programmes to help prevent Government authorities may force closure of infection or spread of infection.
mines on a temporary or permanent basis or refuse mining right applications.
The recruitment and retention of skilled people required to meet growth aspirations can be affected by high rates of HIV AIDS.
EMPLOYEES Pillars of value: The ability to recruit, develop and retain In the key countries where the Group operates, Decrease in risk appropriate skills for the Group.
Strikes or the majority of employees are members of other industrial relations disputes may occur.
Negotiations over wage levels or Commentary: During 2014 working conditions can sometimes fail to result we completed the review of our Impact: Failure to retain or recruit skilled in agreement.
Organisational Model, corporate employees may lead to increased costs, and structure and a number of interruptions to existing operations and new Mitigation: AngloAmerican aims to be the business units.
Industrial disputes adversely affect employer of choice in the mining sector.
of the changes and restructuring production, costs and the results of operations.
A comprehensive human resources strategy programmes identified has has been devised to support that objective.
Root cause: We are subject to global competition progressed.
Further details are The Group seeks constructive relationships and for skilled labour.
Our assets and projects are provided on page 38. dialogue with trade unions and employees in often in remote places or in countries where it is all its businesses.
a challenge to recruit suitably skilled employees.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 47
