Strategy Principal risks and uncertainties Our risks How we identify risk The Audit Committee Risks can materialise and impact on both Our risk identification processes seek to The Audit Committee ensures adequate the achievement of business strategy and the identify risks from both a top down strategic assurance is obtained over the risks that successful running of our business.
A key element perspective and a bottom up local operating are identified in the Group Risk Report.
in achieving our strategy and maintaining services company perspective.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for to customers is the management of these risks.
the independent review and challenge of Our risk management strategy is therefore to The Board the adequacy and effectiveness of the support the successful running of the business by The Board has overall responsibility for risk risk management approach.
identifying and managing risks to an acceptable management, the setting of risk appetite and the level and delivering assurances on this.
implementation of the risk management policy.
Executive Committee The Board reviews and challenges the Group The Executive Committee is responsible for the Risk Report.
identification, reporting and ongoing management of risks and for the stewardship of the risk Risk Description Market cycles Whilst our business will always be subject to Typically, even where we are the clear leader, The Groups broad base helps economic cycles, market risk is reduced by the we still have a relatively small share of the to mitigate against the risk of diversity of our markets, both in terms of market.
Our ability to exploit these downturn in our markets geography and market segment.
opportunities through bolt-on acquisitions is reflected in our track record of growing sales, It is also partially offset by opportunities for and doing so profitably, across market cycles.
consolidation in our highly fragmented markets.
Tendering and It is in the nature of our business that we management continually assess and manage technical, and of contracts other operational, risks.
Project risk is managed throughout the life of a project from the tendering stage to completion Expansion We recognise the risks associated with When considering an acquisition, we try to get Our long-term growth acquisitions and expanding into new regions to know a target company, often working in track record is built on a and aim to manage these to acceptable levels.
joint venture, to understand the operational combination of organic growth and cultural differences and potential synergies.
These include various country risks, including and acquisitions the challenges of operating within different business and safety cultures.
Safety Keller is made up of businesses of varying sizes The construction industry operating around the world, often in poses significant safety challenges, challenging environments.
but we do It is essential that, as we continue to grow and not view injuries as move into new regions, we can be sure that being inevitable our approach to safety is equally rigorous, no matter whereabouts in the world, or on which projects, we are working.
People The risk of losing, or not being able to attract, The accumulation of good people is key.
knowledge and experience We pride ourselves in having some of the best is essential to helping professional and skilled people in the industry, our customers to find who are motivated by our culture and the the best solutions opportunities for career growth.
22 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements management approach.
They facilitate local risk assessment from the countries and agree the regional Committee identifies and assesses the key exercises to review the key strategic risks and to response to the key strategic risks and the strategic risks to the Group on an annual basis.
identify top local risks within their country.
The outputs of the assessment are sent to the outputs of these assessment exercises are sent to divisional MDs for inclusion in their local risk regional management and the Finance Director How we manage risk assessment exercises.
In addition, the Group Risk and Company Secretary for review and challenge.
Our risk management process has been built to Report is reviewed and agreed by the Executive identify, evaluate, analyse and mitigate significant Committee prior to submission to the Board.
Regional management risks to the achievement of our strategy.
Regional management are responsible for the Divisional MDs reporting, challenge and ongoing management Our risk appetite Divisional MDs are responsible for the of risks in their respective regions.
Regional We use risk appetite to ensure the appropriate identification, reporting and ongoing management, with support from their divisional focus is placed on the correct risks.
management of risks in their respective MD, review and challenge the risk information Controls and mitigation KPIs Strategy of geographic diversification: A Revenue growth compared with market growth operations in over 40 countries broad customer base Definition and method of calculation services used across all industry segments: Year-on-year sales growth including infrastructure, industrial, commercial, residential acquisitions in local currency compared and environmental.
with growth in the total regional construction market.
Risk Management Framework defines project staff selected on the basis of their skills B Operating margin Minimum Standards and experience risk-based tender approval process, with establishment of centres of excellence Definition and method of calculation clear delegations of authority periodic reviews of poorly performing contracts Operating profit before exceptional items independent review of tenders to establish lessons learned with the results expressed as a percentage of revenue.
training for staff in the typical risk issues communicated to all relevant staff.
they may face when tendering for jobs, negotiating contracts and executing work legal review of unusual or onerous contract terms.
moving into new geographic markets often cross-border support and sharing of expertise C Return on net operating assets involves following customers with whom we support the transfer of technologies have previously worked acquisition targets are usually well known Definition and method of calculation we deploy trusted and experienced personnel to to Keller Operating profit before exceptional items establish and grow our business in new regions we have thorough due diligence processes, expressed as a percentage of average net robust operating rules, including our Think Safe mostly undertaken by our own management operating assets including goodwill acquired framework and Code of Conduct, apply individual integration plans reflect the unique through acquisitions.
wherever in the world we are working.
Net operating assets excludes net debt, tax balances, deferred consideration and net defined benefit pension liabilities.
Think Safe initiative rolled out across Group in Group HSE Director continues to drive D Accident Frequency Rate 2010 a refresh of policies and guidance due to improvement in safety standards and attitudes take place in 2015 supported by regional HSE representatives in Definition and method of calculation Group HSE Committee monitors safety the divisions Accident frequency per 100,000 hours.
programmes, sets targets for improvements all divisions complete thorough self assessments Lost time injuries are calculated as any incident and ensures lessons learned across the Group annually of their safety performance and culture, over one day.
which are used as a basis for developing safety improvement plans.
We aim to be a responsible employer for whom We aim to treat our employees with fairness, E Staff turnover rate our employees are proud to work.
Definition and method of calculation We provide excellent training and development Managerial, professional and technical staff opportunities: experience on challenging and leaving in the period, other than through high-profile projects: opportunities for redundancy or normal retirement, expressed international career growth: and good as a percentage of employees in this category.
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 23
