Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Our approach to risk management The resulting risk registers are then subject Principal Risks and incorporates both bottom-up and top-down to review on an ongoing basis as part of elements to the identification, evaluation regular operational reviews.
This regular Uncertainties and management of risks and all risks are review of the status of risks and evaluated with reference to the Groups corresponding mitigating actions ensures achievement of its strategic objectives, that risk management is embedded in as outlined on page 8. day-to-day management processes and decision-making as well as in the annual Our business units are required to undertake strategic planning cycle.
formal risk management reviews at least We recognise that managing risk twice per year.
This involves the use of a In addition, the Executive Directors consider consistent framework for the assessment those risks to the Groups strategic objectives effectively is a requirement for of significant risks with respect to impact, which are not addressed within the business achieving our strategic objectives.
likelihood and the time frame in which the units and develop appropriate approaches Therefore, risk management forms risk could materialise.
Risks are assessed to managing and mitigating these.
an integral part of our day-to-day both before and after the effect of controls The overall effectiveness of the Groups operations and the Group has a and mitigating actions has been taken risk management and mitigation processes into account.
well-established process which is reviewed regularly by the Executive delivers visibility and accountability The Groups business units are also required Directors and twice yearly by the Audit to evaluate the status of a number of higherand Risk Committee.
for risk management across our impact risks.
This process forms The key potential risks and uncertainties is given to risks which may not necessarily part of the Groups overall internal facing the Groups ability to deliver its be preoccupations when viewed from strategy, together with mitigating actions, control framework, as described a day-to-day, operational perspective, are described on the following pages.
Whilst on page 50. but which may be capable of having these risks are consistent with those reported a significant impact on operations were in 2013, we provide an update on how these they to materialise.
risks, and our ability to respond and manage Overall ownership for each risk, together them, have changed during 2014. with responsibility for all associated mitigating actions, is clearly assigned and communicated.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 16 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Risk description Potential impact Mitigation 2014 update Reduced profitability Regular strategic evaluations of During 2014, we conducted New product and cash flow.
product portfolios and the markets our annual strategy review with development in which we compete, ensuring each operating business, involving Loss of market share.
that our investment in new in-depth evaluations of each In order to strengthen our Failure to recoup investment products is targetted so as businesss product roadmap against market positions and sustain competitive advantage, the in innovation.
to maximise the opportunity customer needs and demand.
These reviews often result in Group continues to make significant investment in targetted investment in new product Project management disciplines platforms, upgrades to existing research and development of are in place across our product approximately 7% of Group products and services and bolt-on development programmes and acquisitions.
This was again the revenue.
The development audits provide assurance that these of new technologies and case in 2014, which saw several disciplines are applied consistently.
important new product launches, products necessarily involves risk, including: Work closely with customers to new technologies and products ensure that we develop solutions acquired in both the Materials The product being more tailored to their specific needs.
Analysis and Test and Measurement expensive or taking longer segments, and many more Maintain customer involvement to develop than originally acquisition ideas have surfaced.
throughout the life-cycle of product development to product The product failing to reach launch through, for example, the commercialisation phase.
The market for the product New product developments being smaller than originally are based on standard envisaged.
platforms, customised through high added-value applications engineering.
Reduced profitability Policies and procedures in place The general level of patent litigation Intellectual and cash flow.
requiring all of our businesses to: is increasing, although this must property be understood in the context of Loss of market share.
maintain a watching brief on new an increasing number of patents Our business is focussed on third-party patent applications the design and manufacture Failure to recoup investment being granted.
and competitor activity: in innovation.
of technologically advanced During the year, we have taken products and applications.
ensure adequate protection for steps to ensure that the Groups key intellectual property including Significant investment in policies and procedures referred research and development registration where appropriate: to opposite have been subject to is made towards this end.
As undertake specific freedom-toreview and further strengthening.
a consequence, we own and operate technical reviews prior At the same time, internal training protect patents, trademarks, to commencing new product and a programme of compliance trade secrets, confidential development, acquisitions audits against these policies and information and copyright as or licences: and procedures have been introduced.
well as exploiting intellectual register intellectual property property through licensing.
The risk therefore exists that Maintain a portfolio of intellectual our intellectual property may property assets such that no single be infringed by third parties patent, trade secret or trademark or that we may inadvertently is sufficiently important to present infringe third-party rights.
a material risk to the ongoing success of the Company.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk description Potential impact Mitigation 2014 update Reduced sales, profitability Strong culture, internal control The Group, like many other global Laws and and cash flow.
businesses, continues to be exposed regulations to an increasingly challenging Reputational damage.
Ethics training provided to We operate in a large number governance and regulatory all employees.
At the same time, of jurisdictions and, as a consequence, we are subject resources to address any Formal export controls compliance the Group has continued to grow resulting investigation.
procedures in place, including its presence in territories where to numerous domestic and international regulations and strict product classification and there is a general perception that Inability to attract and transaction screening protocols.
ethical conduct risk remains higher, restrictions.
These include laws retain talent.
and regulations covering for example with reference to the Transparency International product safety, export controls, anti-bribery, fair competition Corruption Perceptions Index.
During the year, the Group has continued to take a number Any failure by the Group or its of actions designed to further representatives to comply with mitigate this risk.
These have relevant laws and regulations included increased ethics training could result in civil or criminal targetting key risk topics, the roll liabilities, leading to significant out of a third-party due diligence fines and penalties or the programme and fair competition disqualification of the Group training to relevant employees.
from participation in For more details of our ethics government-related contracts programme during the year see for a period of time.
In the pages 28 and 29. event of a failure to comply with export control regulations, the Group could also be exposed to restrictions being placed upon its ability to trade.
Reduced profitability Maintain a broad spread of The Group has a balanced Political and and cash flow.
markets, products and customers geographical mix, with similar economic risks to limit risks associated with any exposure to North America, We operate in a range of given territory.
Europe and Asia Pacific Rest of the world.
During 2014, this has enabled end-user markets around the Monitor market intelligence so world and may be affected the Group to mitigate the effects that we can respond quickly of a gradual weakening of the by political, economic or to changing trading conditions.
regulatory developments Eurozone economies, a slightly softer Ensure we remain structured in Chinese economy and economic in any of these countries.
Material adverse changes such a way that enables us to take sanctions on Russia through strong prompt action in the event of a growth in North America, the in the political and economic environments in the countries material change in the trading UK and Japan.
end-market exposure, with no in which we operate have the potential to put at single industry accounting for Ensure we maintain a strong more than 12% of Group sales, risk our ability to execute balance sheet and financial our strategy.
has meant that we have been position.
able to mitigate weak demand in certain end markets with growth in others.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 18 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Risk description Potential impact Mitigation 2014 update Failure to achieve the benefits Rigorous financial, commercial There has been a significant Acquisitions outlined in the business case.
and legal assessment of target increase in acquisition activity in A key element of our strategy businesses involving external our marketplace during 2014 as Reduced profitability is to grow the business consultants as appropriate.
compared to both 2012 and 2013. portfolio through the acquisition and cash flow.
Whilst we have participated in this Strict authority levels which, of stand-alone or bolt-on Unforeseen liabilities.
activity, making five bolt-on businesses which complement subject to size, involve review by acquisitions and one stand-alone the Board for such transactions.
or extend the range of platform acquisition, we have been products and applications Comprehensive representations careful to maintain our rigorous we can provide.
and warranties in purchase financial, commercial and legal due agreements.
diligence and disciplines, which Integration of the operations and personnel of acquired has meant that we have also Extensive integration planning excluded ourselves from a number businesses can be a complex and execution.
Potential risks therefore of potential deals.
Regular review against the business exist that the planned benefits from the acquisition may not be case for the acquired businesses.
achieved as a result of problems Post-acquisition control reviews.
encountered during integration of the acquired business, incorrect assumptions made in the business case, changing market conditions, or issues which were not identified during the due diligence process.
Further, the Company could be exposed to past acts or omissions of the acquired business.
Ongoing monitoring of competitor During 2014, we have maintained Competitive activity and trends in the a high level of investment in activity Reduced profitability markets in which we compete.
research and development of and cash flow.
The nature of the markets around 7% of Group sales, with Maintain market-leading in which we operate means all of our operating businesses positions through strong that all of our businesses bringing new products and customer relationships, significant are exposed to risk from solutions to market in order investment in research and competitor activity.
to sustain and strengthen our development and a lean strong customer relationships operating model.
Diversified portfolio of products and markets limits the overall risk from any single competitor.
Maintain ability to react quickly to changes in customer and market demand.
Unexpected variations Forward contracts cover up Whilst there has been no material Fluctuations in in the Companys results.
to 75% of forecast exposures change to the Companys exposure exchange rates up to 18 months ahead.
to exchange rate movements in Reduced profitability Because of the global nature 2014, the strengthening of Sterling and cash flow.
Natural hedging strategy, matching relative to 2013 exchange rates of our business, we have invoicing and purchasing currencies operations which sell and has had a significant negative where practical.
impact on the Groups reporting purchase goods in foreign currencies and whose results Foreign currency investments from a translational perspective.
hedged with borrowings in the Our transactional hedging policy we record in a variety of different currencies.
We are same currency wherever possible.
has mitigated these losses to some degree, thereby reducing therefore exposed to any Regular monitoring, including significant changes in volatility in the Groups reporting.
sensitivity analyses to understand exchange rates between the impact of exchange rate a variety of currencies.
movements on the Groups reporting.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk description Potential impact Mitigation 2014 update Inability to fulfil customer orders Strategic sourcing teams source Where key dependencies exist, Supply chain resulting in lost sales and cost-effective suppliers across we have continued during 2014 dependencies reputational damage.
a range of markets whilst validating to identify and qualify secondary and disruption suppliers business processes, sources of supply.
We have also Increased costs reduce profitability.
worked with our key electronic We are exposed to the risk Loss of market share.
manufacturing suppliers to that some of the components Alternative sources of supply strengthen our disaster support we source, particularly actively sought to reduce and recovery processes.
for custom-built items or dependency upon singleageing products, are provided source suppliers.
by a single supplier and Safety stock levels established are therefore vulnerable for critical components.
Business continuity plans and Our businesses also disaster prevention measures manufacture components in place for all material using proprietary technologies manufacturing locations.
Our ability to supply products Business interruption insurance.
to customers could be Strong contract review process.
adversely impacted by a disaster or other disruptive event at any of these sites.
Any interruption to the Companys supplies or any related increase in costs may result in an adverse effect on the businesss financial position and future performance.
Loss of sensitive information data Our businesses employ a number During the year, detailed threat Information which could put the businesses at of physical, logical and control and vulnerability information security a serious competitive disadvantage measures designed to reduce the security risk assessments of the relative to their competitors.
risk of a breach in information Groups sensitive information data As with most organisations of a similar size and complexity, security arising.
have taken place at each operating Being subject to a malicious company, which included a detailed our businesses face both attack causing system failure, Our systems are monitored internal and external review of the information security data corruption or loss, or theft against unauthorised access.
These risk information security risks, of commercial or sensitive the nature and complexity A programme of continuous and controls assessments are being information data.
improvement focussing on benchmarked against other similar of which are constantly changing.
information security risks evaluates organisations such that a detailed whether the Groups existing security roadmap will be developed controls in this area would benefit in 2015. from additional strengthening.
Employees receive online and face-to-face awareness training of information security risks and controls.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 20
