Strategic report Risks and risk management In 2014 we undertook a comprehensive risk review and present our updated findings in this report.
Nick Anderson Chairman, Risk Management Committee Risk likelihood, control and impact Board Audit Committee The diagram below shows the Committee's analysis of the principal risks affecting the Group, before mitigation.
Reports to Works with Risk Management Committee 1 Oversees risk management processes and procedures and monitors mitigating actions put in place by the Group Top down review 2 External risk review Carried out at regular intervals 6 7 5 Risk assurance Internal audit and external auditor 3 4 Group-wide risk register Low likelihood High likelihood Maintained and reviewed by the Committee The numbers relate to the principal risks outlined on page 29.
Bottom up review low priority Group operating companies medium priority high priority A more detailed overview of the role, responsibilities and actions of the Risk Management Committee in2014 can be found on pages 7274 of our impact of the risk Governance report 28 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 High level of control No control A summary of the principal risks, their link to our strategy and an explanation of how the Group mitigates each risk are set out in the following table.
The direction of change during the year is illustrated by the arrow in the Change column and an explanation is provided below the table.
Please note that the Change column shows the change in the risk and not the mitigation of the risk.
There may be other risks and uncertainties which are unknown to the Group or which could become material in the future.
These risks may cause the Group's results to vary materially from historic and expected results.
Link to strategy Principal risk and why it is relevant Change pages 1825 Key mitigation Economic and Compliance with Group Treasury Policy 1 1 2 3 political instability: Strong internal controls Economic and political instability Resilient business model 4 5 6 creates risks for our locally based direct operations.
Significant exchange rate Regional manufacturing strategy and local currency sales 2 1 2 3 movements: Forward cover where appropriate and in line with the Group The Group reports its results Treasury Policy 4 5 6 and pays dividends in sterling.
Focus on reducing manufacturing costs Operating and manufacturing Local price management practices companies trade in local currency.
Loss of manufacturing output Strategic location of the main eight manufacturing plants 1 2 3 3 at any Group factory: across the world Loss of manufacturing output at Business continuity planning and disaster recovery plans 4 5 6 any important plant risks serious Stocks of components and finished products in sales companies disruption to sales operations.
Regular and comprehensive backup of IT systems Use of insurance audits inspections and business interruption insurance Breach of legal and regulatory Significant improvements to our compliance programme 1 2 3 4 requirements: Robust internal controls, policies and procedures The Group is subject to many Established strong ethical culture 4 5 6 different laws and regulations.
Breaching these laws and Review of commercial arrangements and regulations could have regulatory requirements serious consequences.
Maintain local quality accreditations Non-compliance with Compliance with legislation and codes of best practice 1 2 3 5 health, safety and Regular audits, checks and reporting environmental legislation: Ongoing training 4 5 6 The Group places great emphasis Appointment of Group Environment, Health and Safety Executive on health, safety and environmental issues so as to avoid the risk of major problems.
Defined benefit pension deficit: Use of independent professional advisers and custodians 6 1 2 3 Defined benefit pension schemes Pension scheme derisking strategy carry risks in relation to investment Use of Mercer Dynamic DeRisking Solution performance, security of assets, 4 5 6 longevity and inflation.
Failure to respond to Maintain market knowledge and monitor competitor 7 1 2 3 technological developments developments or customer needs: Maintain investment in R&D programmes 4 5 6 The Group has significantly Appropriate intellectual property registrations and enforcement increased R&D resources in Regular updating of technical and product improvement recent years.
roadmaps Increased risk No change to risk Decreased risk Explanation of change in risk: Risk 1 P olitical instability in the Ukraine and Egypt.
Risk 2 S terling strengthened against all currencies used by the Group.
Risk 6 Significant reduction in deficit on actuarial basis.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 4.
