Our risk management approach The Board of Directors is responsible for The principal risks are subject to robust reviewing and monitoring the Groups risk challenge on the effectiveness of the mitigations management process and internal control and safeguards.
This challenge is delivered systems.
The Board has considered the nature at the highest level through the Group Risk and extent of the risks it is willing to take in Committee which is comprised of the Executive pursuit of the Groups strategic objectives.
Directors, members of the Group Executive Committee and senior management.
On a Our risk appetite cyclical basis, a selection of principal risks The Board has established and reviews is considered at each meeting of the Group periodically the Groups risk appetite.
Our Risk Committee to ensure complete coverage risk appetite is set to balance opportunities annually.
For each principal risk under for new business development in areas of consideration, the risk owner presents on the potentially higher risk whilst maintaining risk, the internal impacts, the mitigations, what long-term customer satisfaction and protecting has changed and is changing, triggers, and key Chris Webb our reputation.
In practice this means we have metrics.
The Group Risk Committee challenges Group Chief Operating Officer a healthy risk appetite where we understand what has been presented and collectively the risks based on our experience in, and agrees an assessment of the status of the risk We balance risk appetite knowledge of, our business.
Conversely, we and the mitigations.
The composition of the have a low appetite for risk where we have Committee has been reviewed and refocused with opportunities less knowledge, experience and understanding to include personnel with a direct influence for further business of the accompanying exposures.
Our risk on the Groups ability to fully deliver against development and appetite is consistent with maintaining a strong Contractual Service commitments for both framework of ethical behaviour and compliance Service levels and the Groups ability to ensure long-term customer with laws and regulation.
technical availability of our customer-facing satisfaction.
Both of these risks, further detailed The Group balances risk appetite with as risks 1-2 from the Group Risk Log, are now opportunities for further business development, standing items on the Committees agenda and long-term customer satisfaction.
Risk to consider at each meeting and are further appetite is managed through the Matters classified by the Group as primary risks to Reserved for the Board and related operational reflect their importance to the Groups strategy.
This is an intrinsic part of our risk management approach.
Group Risk Log 2015 heat map Strategic objectives guiding strategic risk governance to support operational risk management.
The annual risk identification and assessment 1 process is integrated with the strategic planning process.
The process starts with the Board setting the strategic objectives for the 2 Group assisted by the Group Strategy function.
10 The Board and the Group Executive Committee then consider the barriers to achieving the 11 strategic objectives and, in turn, assess the level of risk in the context of our defined risk 3 appetite.
Risks include those generated by 4 12 the strategic direction and external risks to execution of that strategic direction.
9 8 This top-down key risk assessment process is linked through the Group Risk Committee to a Group-wide, bottom-up business risk 5 assessment process.
There is clear linkage between the two approaches, with the bottom-up risks mapping to a risk appearing 6 on the top-down Group Risk Log.
The risk management framework is shown on the 7 opposite page.
Impact Alert status down Alert status up Alert status holding 18 Our risk management approach Likelihood Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The minutes from the Group Risk Committee, Our principal risks The likelihood and impact of our principal along with the current status of each principal This latest Group Risk Log is set out on pages risks are shown on the heat map on page 18, risk, are reported to the Audit Committee and 20 and 21 of this report.
Our principal risks with the highest likelihood and highest impact to the Board.
The Board reviews key areas of continue to be concentrated around the risks sitting in the upper right section, and risk as regular items on its agenda over the availability and resilience of systems, our the lowest likelihood and lowest impact risks course of the year.
In addition, during 2014, people, our cost base, technology change, sitting in the lower left section.
the Board asked the Audit Committee to and in the design, take-on, and running review particular areas of risk.
Risk management framework The Board Sets strategic Has overall Monitors risk objectives responsibility for exposure in pursuit the Groups risk of our strategic Top-down Defines risk appetite management objectives Identification process and internal and assessment control systems of risk by senior management Audit Committee Group Risk Committee Internal Audit Reviews the Sets the risk Internal Audit effectiveness of our management process plans are focused risk identification and on providing risk management Provides oversight assurance on our process and challenge on the principal risks to effectiveness of risk assist the Audit Reviews the mitigation for our Committee in effectiveness of principal risks its review of the internal control effectiveness of systems Considers emerging the risk management risks and also process and Supports the Board high-impact lowof our internal in monitoring risk likelihood risks control systems exposure Operational level Group-wide risk Ongoing monitoring Internal controls Bottom-up identification and of mitigations embedded across Identification, assessment performed across the Group assessment and the Group through mitigation of risk for management, business and functional key performance areas, delivered indicators and review through our Group by the appropriate Operating Model Risk Manager 19 Primary risks Primary impacts Impacts Primary mitigations strategic objectives Failure to deliver against Customer dissatisfaction 1, 2 and 4 The Group Operating Model is in place contractual commitments for our Financial penalties in the UK and Germany, and is in the services business.
Either through Contract cancellations process of being deployed in France.
poor transition and transformation Reputational damage This incorporates mandatory gateway activity or through the lack of Reduced margin governance products and processes, delivery of committed service Reduced service and as well as the Group signing policy and productivity improvements and technical innovation service management best practice.
service levels over the contract life.
We have an increasingly mature root cause analysis and lessons learnt process 1 for complex transformations.
We perform regular commercial and contract deep dives to manage service productivity improvements.
Failure s leading to Customer dissatisfaction 1 and 2 All centrally-hosted systems are built and unacceptably long outages or Financial penalties operated on High Availability infrastructure.
regular short outages of our Contract cancellations Enhanced Group IS support models, with customer-facing systems.
Reputational damage key Operations and Applications staff on call 24 7 to respond quickly in the event 2 of failures or issues.
Continued investment in tools and technologies with increased resilience and robustness.
Principal risks Principal impacts Impacts Principal mitigations strategic objectives Not recruiting and retaining the Customer dissatisfaction 1, 2, 3 and 4 We perform regular remuneration right calibre of staff across any Financial penalties benchmarking to ensure we remain of our customer-facing functions.
Reputational damage We invest in management development 3 programmes.
There is an annual staff survey to understand employee views.
We have implemented a series of staff retention initiatives.
Failure to implement appropriate Reduced margin 1 and 4 The Group Operating Model is in place designs and pricing structures Loss-making contracts in the UK and Germany, and is in the for Managed Services or Customer dissatisfaction process of being deployed in France.
outcome-based project Financial penalties This incorporates mandatory gateway management contracts.
Contract cancellations governance products and processes, Reputational damage as well as the Group signing policy.
4 There is Board oversight of significant bids.
Inadequate succession planning Lack of leadership 1 and 4 Board consideration of succession plans.
and not enough management depth Management development programmes within key senior management to develop talent.
5 Letting our direct costs run Reduced margin 1 and 2 We employ a range of metrics on a out of control and not taking monthly and quarterly basis to ensure advantage of productivity and that we properly manage our direct cost reduction opportunities.
We have a programme of activities 6 to deliver cost reduction opportunities, through the reduction of manual effort.
Significant amount of direct cost managed centrally to retain control.
20 Our risk management approach continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Principal risks Principal impacts Impacts Principal mitigations strategic objectives Technology change dramatically Reduced margin 1, 3 and 4 We mitigate this through a range of reduces customer need and Excess operational staff measures including win loss reviews, demand for our service offerings.
Contracts not renewed senior management forums and strategy reviews where we consider our offerings 7 alongside where the market is going.
Failure to deliver and effectively Reduced margin 1 and 3 Annual senior management review manage our international Customer dissatisfaction of our international business and team.
By Financial penalties In relation to our partner network we association the risk around Contract cancellations have upgraded our contracts and take-on and management Reputational damage increased the level of monitoring activity.
8 Failure to develop a Group culture.
Loss of synergies 1 and 2 Deployment of Group Operating Model Loss of brand identity resulting in consistent ways of working.
9 Initiatives to reduce in-country barriers.
Group Values & Behaviours defined and announced.
Group Sales and Leadership forums established.
Group job alignment project has been started.
Roll-out of a single performance management system and process planned for 2015.
Management restructures undertaken to align country structures.
Letting our inventory and or Financial impact through 2 We mitigate these risks through a receivables get out of control.
obsolete stock and or range of measures including monthly bad debts and quarterly metrics, credit scoring and 10 credit limits for customers, and utilisation of direct delivery where possible.
A security hacking or virus problem Customer dissatisfaction 1, 2 and 4 We have well-communicated Group at a customer that is due to Financial penalties policies for information security and Computacenters negligence, Contract cancellations virus prevention.
mismanagement or employee Reputational damage There is specific induction and training rogue behaviour leading to a breach for staff working on customer sites and or loss of data.
systems, as well as specific policies and procedures for anyone working 11 behind a customer firewall.
Not investing appropriately Reduced margin 1, 2 and 4 This is linked to Risk 7 we mitigate or over investing in the wrong Win less new business this through a range of measures automation, self-service and Contracts not renewed including win loss reviews, senior remote tools when compared management forums and strategy to our competition.
reviews where we consider our offerings alongside our competitors and where 12 the market is going.
The strategic objectives are detailed on pages 8 to 11.
