58 Strategic report Risk The outputs of the latest Group Risk Committee meeting are Principal risks and risk also considered by the Board as a whole, with a particular focus on the potential impact on the setting and execution management ofthe Groups strategy.
The Group faces a range of risks and uncertainties which The Groups reporting cycle and dates of key meetings are could materially affect the achievement of its strategic co-ordinated to ensure that appropriate risk and strategic objectives and, in turn, its financial performance.
reviews are performed in alignment with the scheduled Board and Audit and Compliance Committee meetings.
This section describes our approach to risk management, TheGroup Risk Committee typically reviews risks over andthe process and governance framework that we have arolling 12-month time horizon.
Longer-term risks are inplace to identify, assess, manage and monitor risks.
considered by the Board, as part of its annual strategic Thisisfollowed by a summary description of the principal review, and then reflected in the Group risk review.
risks facing the Group and the corresponding mitigating actions that are in place.
In addition to the above, a number of other committees contribute to the Groups overall risk governance structure.
Approach to risk management The Investment Committee meets as required to consider The Board is responsible for setting the overall strategic risk in relation to the acquisition, management and disposal direction of the Group.
As part of the strategic , within the authority limits delegated by making process, the Board seeks to achieve an appropriate the Board.
balance between taking risk and generating returns for our The Conflicts Committee reviews the Groups conflict policies shareholders.
The evaluation of strategic choices and new and processes and meets periodically and as required to opportunities requires a detailed risk assessment, which review any specific issues which may arise.
takes into account the Boards overall risk appetite.
The Treasury Transactions Committee provides formal The Groups risk management framework is designed to approval for specific treasury related transactions, taking support the delivery of the strategic objectives determined by intoconsideration any risk management implications, subject the Board.
This framework includes the periodic assessment to specific limits or delegated authority from the Board.
of changes and developments which potentially impact the Groups overall risk profile, as well as the identification and The Groups Brand and Values Committee considers risks assessment of key risks and the review of the effectiveness which could potentially impact the Groups brand and ofthe risk mitigation plans which have been put in place.
reputation, drawing upon the outputs of the Groups risk review.
Risk management framework The roles and membership of the above committees are described in more detail in the Governance section of this and governance structure report.
Further details on the risk management framework can also be found in 3is Pillar 3 disclosures at www.
3is risk management framework and associated governance structure are designed to ensure that there is an effective Assurance to the Audit and Compliance Committee on the process and a clear organisational structure with well defined robustness and effectiveness of the Groups risk management responsibilities to identify, assess, manage and monitor risk processes is provided through the independent assessments and operate at a number of levels throughout the Group.
by Internal Audit and the work of Group Compliance on regulatory risks.
Management is also required to certify The Board is responsible for overall risk management, annually that risk mitigation controls have operated effectively whichincludes the Groups risk governance or oversight throughout the year, that the Groups policies have been structure, and for maintaining an appropriate internal complied with and any exceptions reported.
information can be found in the Audit Committee report Responsibility for oversight of risk management is delegated intheGovernance section.
to the Chief Executive who has established the Group Risk Committee to assist him to discharge this responsibility.
Theyare guided by the Boards appetite for risk and any specific limits set.
The Group Risk Committee maintains the Group risk review, which summarises the Groups principal risks and associated mitigating actions.
The Audit and Compliance Committee is updated by the ChiefExecutive, as Chairman of the Group Risk Committee, ateach meeting on the outputs of the latest Group Risk Committee meeting and has the opportunity to contribute views or raise questions.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report 59 Risk review process Changes and improvements The Group Risk Committee is responsible for carrying out Following the implementation of the European AIFM Directive adetailed risk review of the Group and meets at least four in July 2013, the Group has put in place a risk framework for times a year, to coincide with meetings of the Executive each of its managed Alternative Investment Funds in line with Committee and the Audit and Compliance Committee.
As part of this change, the The Group risk review process was enhanced inthe prior Group Risk Committee receives and reviews risk reports for financial year to include improved monitoring ofkey strategic each AIF, which consider risks at the individual fund level, and financial metrics, which are indicators ofchanges to the withreference to any risk limits applicable to the fund.
The review includes thefollowing Management completed a review of our Responsible Investing reference data: RI Environmental, Social and Governance ESG reporting Financial performance and strategic dashboards: framework in early 2014.
Asaresult of the recommendations made, dedicated resource has been allocated to co-ordinate Portfolio performance reports for Private Equity, and manage 3isapproach toRI and ESG risk management Infrastructure and Debt Management: and detailed updates are now being provided to the Group Risk Committee with streamlined reporting to both the Vintage control and asset allocation analysis: Audit and Compliance Committee and Brand and Values Macroeconomic and M&A market overview: Committee.
Further details on 3is approach to RI and ESG risk management can be found inthe Corporate responsibility Liquidity management and ICAAP review: section of our website at www.
Operating expenses: Responsible investment review: Risk reports for managed Alternative Investment Funds: and Quarterly Group risk log.
Drawing upon the above, the Committee considers changes and developments since its last review and the potential for these to impact the Groups overall risk profile and, therefore, its strategic delivery.
The Committee evaluates the impact and likelihood of each key risk, with reference to associated measures and key performance indicators.
The adequacy of current mitigation plans is assessed and, where necessary, additional actions agreed and reviewed at the subsequent meeting.
A number of focus topics are agreed in advance of each meeting, which involve a more in-depth analysis.
Further details are set out under the Review of principal risks.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 60 Strategic report Risk Overview of risk management framework and governance structure Brand and Values Audit and Compliance Board Committee Committee Considers risks to the Groups Determines Groups risk appetite Receives reports from the Director brand, values and reputation as part of strategy setting.
of Internal Audit on theGroups risk asrequired.
management processes and Overall responsibility for system of internalcontrols.
Meets three times a year or maintaining a system of internal as required.
controls that ensures an effective Receives reports from the Director risk management and oversight of Group Compliance onregulatory process operates across and compliance matters.
Updated at each meeting on the Committee outputs of the latest Group Risk Committee meeting with the Considers risk implications of opportunity to contribute views specific treasury transactions or raise questions.
A quorum of members meet as required.
Chief Executive Investment Committee Executive Committee Group Risk Committee Considers risk in context of Principal decision-making body in Delegated responsibility for risk individual investments, portfolio respect of managing the business.
management and oversight management decisions across the Group, reflecting the anddivestments.
Boards appetite for risk and any specific limits set.
Maintains the Group risk review, which summarises the Groups Conflicts Committee risk exposure and associated mitigation or response plan based on risks identified.
Deals with potential Meets at least four times a year conflicts issues.
to consider the Group risk review, Meets periodically and including adequacy of risk asrequired.
Chairman provides update at each meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee.
Committees of the Board Committees of the Chief Executive Independent review of potential conflict issues Risk reporting to Audit and Compliance Committee 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report 61 The Private Equity business is the largest in terms of Review of principal risks proprietary capital investment.
Specific risks include the pricing of new investment opportunities: the potential The disclosures on the following pages are not an exhaustive operational underperformance of portfolio companies list of risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, but rather impacting earnings growth and valuations: and the timing asummary of those principal risks which have the potential ofexits and cash returns.
toimpact materially the Groups financial performance and or the achievement of its strategic objectives, and which are A cautious and selective approach has continued to be applied under active review by the Group Risk Committee and to new investment over the year.
The overall health and the Board.
performance of the Private Equity investment portfolio has continued to improve, with the Groups larger investments Strategic growing strongly.
The Groups Private Equity investment The preceding sections provide an overview of 3is strategic portfolio has become relatively more concentrated over time, priorities and progress against these.
There were no with increasing exposure to the performance of a smaller fundamental changes in the Groups strategy in the prior year number of larger investments.
As expected, the pace of and delivery remains on target.
Accordingly, the Groups risk realisations has slowed in the second part of the financial profile has not been impacted by any significant changes year.
In this context, exit strategies and the divestment instrategic direction.
pipeline continue to be monitored closely.
Specific risks to the Infrastructure business include the External ability to maintain investment rates in a competitive market, The key external risks affecting 3i over the course of where there is strong demand for infrastructure assets as thefinancial year remained centred on the continuing investors seek yield.
3i completed the acquisition of Barclays  and market conditions and Infrastructure Funds Management Limited BIFM, a factors impacting these.
There was also a significant European infrastructure fund management business, in increasein new .
November 2013, and remains focused on increasing thirdparty AUM through new investments, fund raising and other Economic stability, and confidence more generally, is potential inorganic opportunities.
The 3i India Infrastructure vulnerable to weakening growth in developing markets, Fund has been affected by the depreciation in the Indian thepace and sustainability of economic recovery in Europe, rupee against sterling and the US dollar as well as the and recent increases in geopolitical risk.
The last includes broader macroeconomic challenges in India.
The current developments in Eastern Europe and uncertainty around focus is on managing the value of the existing Indian portfolio theoutcome and impact of key elections, for example with no plans for further investment or fundraising in inEurope and India.
The Group is subject to a number of new regulatory The principal risk to the Debt Management business is the requirements which are already in force or will come into ability to grow AUM profitably in line with its business plan.
A key development is the European AIFM The European CLO market has now re-opened and in Directive, which came into force in July 2013.
The Group is September 2013 Debt Management launched its first also affected by regulations under the European Market European CLO Harvest VII since the establishment of the Infrastructure Regulation EMIR and Capital Requirements Debt Management platform in 2011.
A further European CLO Directive IV CRDIV.
These changes will result in a significant Harvest VIII was launched in February 2014.
The level of increase in reporting requirements and additional costs to the newCLO issuance in the US initially slowed following the business, and may potentially restrict some future activities.
introduction of the Volcker Rule but the business launched The detailed application of IFRS 10 has led to wide debate two further CLOs, Jamestown III, in December 2013 and the across the investment management industry and accounting COA Summit CLO in March 2014.
The CLO market is likely to firms, and standard setting bodies continue to refine remain somewhat disrupted until the US regulatory agencies guidance.
The Group has applied IFRS 10 in line with the provide further guidance on the implementation of the Volcker guidance from the IFRIC meeting in January 2014 which Rule.
The business has put in place new warehousing vehicles wasmarginally supported, but not approved, by the IASB in both Europe and the US to seed future CLO launches and inMarch 2014.
There is a risk that the interpretation of the the business is seeking to expand and diversify its product standard will evolve further, for better or worse, resulting offering beyond its core CLO funds.
Whilst in the warehouse infuture restatements of our statutory accounts.
phase, 3i is at risk of margin calls in the event of market falls.
In extreme market conditions, it may not be possible to Investment convert the warehouse to a CLO and it may be necessary Detailed commentaries on the performance of each of 3is toliquidate the warehouse at a financial loss.
Stress tests business lines can be found in the Business review section.
areperformed when a warehouse is set up, and monitored The Groups key investment risks remain closely linked to onaweekly basis thereafter.
More detail is included theeconomic and market conditions, referred to above.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 62 Strategic report Risk Treasury and funding Changes to the Groups risk Details of the Groups approach to the management of treasury and funding risks can be found in the Financial profile during the financial year review section.
The overall risk profile of the Group has been comparatively The main risk management priorities have been the continued stable over the year, as the strategic plan moved from the reduction of the Groups funding costs, through lower levels of restructuring phase, which involved extensive organisational gross debt, and the monitoring of progress with the triennial changes and cost reductions in FY2013, to the transition and valuation of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme.
Following the reduction of gross debt to below the 1 billion The main factors which have impacted the risk profile during target ahead of schedule, and conclusion of the 2013 triennial the year include: pension fund valuation, the focus continues to be on monitoring liquidity and capital management in the context Successful implementation of the first phase ofthe Groups investment strategy.
ofthestrategic plan underpinning increased : Operational Strong performance of the Private Equity investment The key areas of operational risk include the exposure to the portfolio, including realisations: loss of key people, and ensuring that investor skill sets and No significant individual portfolio write-downs since business development capabilities support the achievement March 2012 and 18 months of improved portfolio of the strategic plan.
Detailed resource plans are in place at monitoring: the business line level and a Group organisational capability and succession review was presented to, and reviewed by, Reduction of gross debt and funding costs, and a shift theBoard in November 2013. offocus to liquidity and capital management: Organisational developments have included progress with the Met objective to cover annual operating expenses with cash implementation of a new asset accounting IT system eFront, income, improving the financial profile of the Group: which has been closely monitored.
The implementation of processes and controls to meet new regulatory, accounting Some key people changes, which have been and tax reporting requirements affecting the Group has been carefully managed: subject to detailed project planning, input from external New regulatory, accounting and tax reporting requirements, advisers and regular updates to senior management and which require some operational changes and additional the Board.
costs to ensure ongoing compliance: Group Risk Committee focus topics Implementation of new Private Equity IT system substantially complete: In the course of the financial year, the Group Risk Committee has carried out a number of in-depth reviews.
Topics covered Successful integration of the activities of the Barclays have included integration planning for the BIFM acquisition: European Infrastructure team: and regulatory developments: and information security with Winding down of our operations in Brazil.
Although some risk categories remain stable overall, the underlying risks may have changed over the course of the Key risk factors and risk year.
An example includes people risk.
While the restructuring mitigation phase is largely complete, and the level of people change reduced, there continues to be ongoing management of The table opposite summarises the key risks under active theorganisational capability in line with delivering the review by the Group Risk Committee.
The Group faces a range strategic plan.
of other risks which are managed through similar risk mitigation plans at the operational level, and are subject to regular management reporting and appropriate oversight.
Examples include currency, counterparty and interest rate exposures: people risks: business continuity: potential exposure to litigation: and changes to tax regulations.
This broader range of risks is considered by the Committee as part of its determination and evaluation of the Groups key risks.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report 63 Key risks considered in the year Consequences Risk mitigation External Economic stability and Limited growth or reduction in NAV and increase Monthly portfolio monitoring to address any vulnerability to weaker ingearing owing to multiple and or earnings portfolio issues promptly growth, or unwinding QE contraction in Private Equity and Infrastructure Regular monitoring of liquidity and balance sheet Impact on investment rates and realisations Significant geopolitical Impacts general market confidence and lowers Regular assessment of exposures to geopolitical unrest: for example in risk appetite risk across the investment portfolio Eastern Europe Leads to economic instability and lower growth Subdued M&A activity Investment and realisation levels fall Active management of exit strategies by andhigh pricing in Investment Committee to adapt to market Reduces capacity to invest and pay enhanced 3iscore markets conditions shareholder distributions couldlimitexit or Regular monitoring of new investment work Lack of primary deal flow in the US and European investment opportunities inprogress and market activity CLO market Changes in regulation Regulatory constraints on possible future business Detailed evaluation of business impact supported restrict or impose development and increased operating costs by external advisers to assist in implementation significant costs on Complexity increases risk of non-compliance, with New processes, procedures and additional the business possible financial or reputational consequences resource to support compliance Investment Investment rate or quality Impacts longer-term returns Management focus on building investment pipeline is lower than expected Impairs ability to raise new funds or attract Early involvement of Investment Committee new capital toidentify key targets Regular review of vintage control and asset allocation Portfolio performance Reduction in NAV and realisation potential Monthly portfolio monitoring to address isweak or is impacted anyportfolio issues promptly Increased covenant risk in weaker companies bya significant Active management of new Chairman and Impairs track record for fundraising purposes environmental, social CEOappointments orgovernance incident Regular review of key Environmental, Social andGovernance risks in portfolio Ability to grow Debt Inability to meet externally communicated targets Regular review of progress against business plan Management AUM on revenue and growth Review and development of the economics of profitably in line with thebusiness and operating model business plan Investment Committee review of new products, fund raising commitments and other proposals Operational Exposure to the loss Potential to undermine investor and or Formal organisational capability and ofkey people  remunerationreview completed Inability to deliver strategic plan Contingency andsuccession planning Organisational Poor execution of strategic changes impacts Project governance and management, including development, including delivery of stated targets detailed risk assessment and mitigation planning people and systems Regular progress reports to Executive Committee changes, are delayed ornot as planned 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 64 Strategic report Corporate responsibility For 3i, corporate responsibility is A responsible company aboutbeing a responsible company, Governance aresponsible employer and a Good corporate governance is fundamental to 3i and its responsible investor.
For full details of our governance structure, please see the Corporate governance section of this report and visit responsibility for our actions, carefully the Governance section of our website at www.
consider how others will be affected Environmental impact byour choices and ensure that our In the year to 31 March 2014 our measured Scope 1 and 2 values and ethics are integrated emissions were 580tonnes CO2e.
This comprised: intoourformal business policies, CO2e emissions practicesandplans.
tonnes foryear to Scope Emissions source 31 March 2014 For fuller details of 3is approach, including details 1 Combustion of fuel and operation 200.89 ofrelevant3i policies, please visit the CR section of ofour facilities ourwebsiteat www.
2 Electricity, heat, and cooling 379.40 purchased for our own use Total 580.29 This equates to 2.09 tonnes CO2e per employee for the year to31 March 2014, based on an average number of employees during the year of 277.
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial statements.
We have used the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol as our methodology, combined with the UK Government conversion factors for company reporting tocalculate our carbon footprint.
It is not practical for us toobtain data relating to electricity consumption in our Singapore office or refrigerant losses for this period astherelevant data is not within our control.
Community We focus our charitable activities on the disadvantaged, on young people and on education.
Charities are supported on the basis of their effectiveness and impact.
Our charitable giving for the year to 31 March 2014 totalled 250,000.
Transparency As a publicly-listed company, 3i is subject to formal legal andregulatory disclosure requirements as well as the high expectations for transparency of our shareholders, fund investors, staff and the media.
We firmly believe that transparency is crucial for building trust, and we take aproactive approach to communicating both financial andnon-financial performance.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report 65 3i is also committed to ensuring that the businesses we Anti-bribery and corruption investin comply with all applicable laws in relation to their 3i does not offer, pay or accept bribes.
We are committed to employees amongst other things and, where appropriate, working only with third-parties whose standards of business that they work towards meeting relevant international integrity are substantively consistent with ours.
We also standards such as the ILO Fundamental Conventions expect the businesses in which we invest to commit to wherethese are more stringent.
Summaries ofrelevant avoiding bribery and to comply with anti-bribery laws 3ipolicies, including our policies on people, recruitment applicable to their business.
andselection, equal opportunities and diversity, health andsafety and responsible investment are available at A responsible employer www.
At 31 March 2014, 3i had a total of 266 employees and this is During the year, we became an accredited London Living how they broke down by gender: Wage Employer.
This means that every member of staff based in London, including contracted maintenance and Number Male Female reception teams, earns a living wage which is an hourly rate All 3i employees 266 166 62% 100 38% higher than the UK minimum wage and is set independently, 1 updated annually and based on the cost of living in the UK.
3i Group plc Director 8 6 75% 2 25% 2 Senior managers 47 39 83% 8 17% A responsible investor 1 Includes non-executive Directors who are not 3i employees.
2 Senior managers excludes Simon Borrows and Julia Wilson who We are signatories to the UN Principles for Responsible are included as Directors of3iGroup plc and includes 27 people Investing and have embedded specific responsible investment whowere directors of undertakings included in the consolidation, RI policies and procedures into our investment and ofwhom25 are male and two are female.
During the year, Human rights dedicated resource was allocated to co-ordinate and manage 3is approach to RI and environmental, social and governance Whilst 3i does not have a formal human rights policy, issues and opportunities.
Further details of 3is approach our policies are consistent with  asaresponsible investor, including a summary of our human rights principles.
In particular, 3i is an equal Responsible Investment policy, are available at www.
opportunities employer in relation to the selection, training, career development and promotion of employees regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, religion and whether disabled or otherwise.
3i also has clear grievance and disciplinary procedures, an employee assistance programme and an independent, external whistle blowing hotline service.
Case study Community Links Play, Sow and Grow is a purpose built including open access play for children 3i has supported community space in Stratford, between 5 and 11: stay and play for Community Links for Newham, a borough that is ranked toddlers and parents: youth programmes 14years and is currently asthe third most deprived in the UK, for 12 to 16 year olds, including youth supporting the Play, Sow where 50% of children live in poverty project workshops and Girl Guides: play and Grow community and household income for most of activities for disabled children: summer these families is below the poverty line.
schools, nature walks and daytrips: hubin east London.
aswell as activities for adults, such Play, Sow and Grow uses the natural ascooking lessons, DIY, gardening, environment to deliver educational community clean-up and English playschemes where children are language classes.
encouraged to spend time outdoors.
The garden contains growing fruit In addition, the hub has engaged andvegetables, roaming hens and 808people of varying ages through a atree house, sand pit and other number of events, including childrens playequipment.
wildlife workshops: bird of prey displays: a summer horticultural Over the past year, Play, Sow and Grow school: and the Carols on the Green has engaged with 293 unique users Christmas Concert.
Sessions were delivered via a range of activities 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 C orpora t e Governance 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
