Risk management Risk management is fundamental to our core objective of delivering sustainable and long term value to our shareholders.
The Board believes that it is of vital importance that there is a Aberdeen undertakes a regular risk and control self-assessment Group-wide focus on risk management.
process, under which risk owners across the Group describe their processes, the risks that manifest themselves from these Risk management framework processes, and the different types of impact that these risks would The Group maintains a comprehensive risk management present if crystallising.
Alongside this assessment are the controls framework and has clearly defined procedures for identifying designed to mitigate these risks and how these controls operate.
and escalating risk concerns throughout the organisation.
"These processes help us to safeguard client assets, protect the interests Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment ""ICAAP"" of all stakeholders and meet our responsibilities as a UK listed ICAAP is a regulatory requirement under which we are required company and parent of a number of regulated entities."
to identify and quantify the Groups risks and the level of regulatory capital required to cover those risks.
It is an on-going Role of the Board process which requires formal annual sign off by the Board.
It is The Board risk committee are responsible for setting the Groups also reviewed for major business decisions, such as acquisitions.
They set the Groups risk appetite which reflects We utilise all components of the framework to inform the decision the size and types of risks the Group is prepared to accept, on key risks that are relevant to the Group.
in line with its strategy and to deliver its objectives.
The Board are provided with clear management information as well as the Key risks key indicators which allow them to monitor performance against The tables on the following pages summarise the main risks that set thresholds.
Over the last year the main change to the risk profile was as a result of the acquisition of SWIP.
This is a key Risk register strategic acquisition for the Group and the project to integrate the The risk register describes key risks and their owners along with businesses was subject to significant review to ensure the project is the causes and effects of each risk.
It documents which boards and successfully implemented for clients, staff and stakeholders.
committees oversee these risks as well as aligning to the policy and procedure framework.
With the merging of the two businesses, the asset profile and client distribution balance has changed and the Group Three lines of defence has benefited from less concentration to the equities asset Aberdeen operates a three lines of defence model: class.
Equally, the transaction adds new capabilities including 1. Business lines are responsible for the identification and quantitative investments and infrastructure and is a major step mitigation of risks and the implementation of an adequate forward in the Group's strategy to diversity.
The execution of control environment.
strategy impacts the risk profile.
The control oversight functions within the Risk Division oversee In the market review on pages 24 to 27, we have identified the compliance with regulatory and legal requirements as well as impact of changing needs of investors and increased demand monitoring operational, investment and counterparty risk.
for solutions and alternatives products.
Independent assurance provided by Internal Audit.
an opportunity for Aberdeen given our investment skills, it also creates the risk that our product range fails to meet changing Risk and control attestation investor demands or that we fail to harness our investment and The Group has in place a risk management system which enables distribution capabilities to drive shareholder value.
This was one linkage between risks, controls, events and issues.
Events are of the themes discussed at the Board's 'blue sky thinking' session.
captured by the business and through a workflow are reviewed and assessed by the second line of defence.
Issues can also be raised when there are failings identified or through regular continuous monitoring or deep dive reviews by the second and third line of defence teams.
44 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Risks Mitigating factors Changes in 2014 Investment process Risk of adverse movements in AuM due We make investment decisions based on the long term, which There has been volatility to markets and investment decisions.
may occasionally lead to periods of underperformance.
We in both equities and mitigate this by ensuring clients and investment consultants bond markets.
The Groups revenue is mainly earned fully understand our investment philosophy and by openly from management fees, calculated on Macroeconomic and discussing performance drivers, supported by relevant analysis the basis of the value of AuM.
political events may of the performance components.
This will be affected by general continue to impact market movements, as well as We believe that our conservative style has helped to attract markets significantly investor appetite and actual assets through a period of ongoing economic uncertainty.
over coming months: investment performance achieved by they also impact our Our equities business grew significantly in recent years.
necessary, we may moderate inflows to some products to avoid Equities remains our largest asset class.
any risk of dilution in the quality of the portfolios.
There have been no Future revenues may be sensitive to significant changes to There is a market risk team, independent of the fund managers, stock market fluctuations and changes process for existing which monitors the investment profile across all asset classes.
in investor risk appetite to equities.
capabilities due to We also forecast financial results using different scenarios to SWIP - we have added stress test the impact of major market falls on our capital base.
infrastructure and quantitative investments teams, which are new capabilities for us.
Investment mandate Risk of breach of an investment We have robust controls throughout the client lifecycle to We added a major new mandate terms leading to action mitigate breaches and monitor client and fund limits on mandate for Lloyds.
There is strong governance This could arise from mis-management There are also overarching controls in various committees, as between Aberdeen of an investment mandate.
well as an independent review of portfolio data by the market and Lloyds to monitor risk team.
SWIP integration Given the scale and range of products There is robust governance over the integration project.
A major element of managed by SWIP, the migration of The board receives reports at each meeting from the Chief integration has been data and integration of investment Operating Officer, who chairs the integration steering group.
completed on schedule, and other teams is a major project.
with the remainder due There is oversight from Lloyds when data is being transferred There are risks over managing the in 2015. from their systems.
Each function has a detailed plan, against project plan, achieving milestones which progress and budget is measured.
on plan, migration of fund customer and holdings data across platforms, continuity of IT support and maintaining the consistency and quality of the investment process.
"There is also a transitional service agreement ""TSA"" with Lloyds until March 2015. aberdeen-asset."
com 45 Risk management continued Risks Mitigating factors Changes in 2014 Loss of key investment personnel Our reputation and client retention We have a team based approach, which seeks to avoid reliance AuM for GEM, Asia Pacific could be damaged through significant upon any one individual.
and Global equities changes in investment personnel.
reduced from 53% to There is a strong development programme for fund managers 30% of the Group total, and we seek to encourage performance and loyalty through following SWIP addition.
appropriate remuneration and our benefits package, which includes a significant deferred element.
We communicated to clients where there were Recognising the importance of a small number of teams to the changes in teams due to Groups future performance, we aim to mitigate this risk both SWIP integration.
through the team approach, remuneration and development programmes as well as actions to grow the business outside of these core equities products.
Distribution and product Client management We ensure that our client relations teams keep in regular During the year, our Client relationships are fundamental contact with clients to ensure that we address their changing distribution teams have to our business and retention of AuM.
The Board views meeting customers needs and worked closely with our We source business through two expectations as integral to the corporate culture.
clients to ensure that they channels of distribution: directly understand the impact of Aberdeen has a global network of offices that allows us from institutions, or through economic factors to service local clients and the leading private banks and investment intermediaries.
This incorporates the risk that we They also ensured that We have also brought product specialists into distribution for mislead or misrepresent products clients were kept key capabilities, such as property, money market solutions, to clients this could create appraised on the impact alternatives and quantitative strategies.
regulatory censure as well as loss of the SWIP integration.
of clients or poorly manage client The FCA has identified conduct risk as a top priority.
This is about ensuring that the right products are sold to the right clients.
Product We have a centralised product development team which No change.
Risk of poor product design or that oversees the assessment and launch of all new products across delivery of the final product was not the Group.
There is a Group-wide approach covering all asset what was intended.
It can arise from classes as well as product and competitor reviews.
creating new products, or risk that We continue to strengthen governance and oversight in existing products no longer meet this area and have created new roles to head up governance investor requirements.
of product management and conduct strategy.
We also consider it important that all areas of the business work together in this area.
Client service and administration Business continuity There is offsite back up for our systems in place to cover each No change.
We have an obligation to ensure that of the Groups principal operating sites.
We regularly test our the business can operate at all times.
back up plans and the tests also cover potential availability of key staff.
External service providers We use a small number of strategic suppliers.
This ensures a SWIP used one of The Group relies on a number of third degree of competition, whilst ensuring that we have significant our two global third party relationships and services to influence and leverage.
However, it also exposes us to party administrators.
The risk concentration risk and dependence on strategic providers.
Our We continue with a arises from the inability to effectively operations team oversees these third party administrators.
We dual administrator carry out robust evaluations of third have contingency plans reviewed by the Board on how we would policy but have introduced parties prior to Aberdeen engaging best manage a withdrawal or failure of a strategic supplier.
a new outsourcing in dealings, as well as having poor We regularly review the business recovery infrastructure and oversight committee.
This includes visits by our senior executives to strategic suppliers during the year.
46 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Risks Mitigating factors Changes in 2014 Brand Reputation could be damaged The compliance team works closely with the business to No change.
if brand or marketing activities check that marketing materials are consistent with products are inconsistent with our culture and capabilities.
Legal and regulatory Aberdeen operates in a complex and The management of legal and regulatory risk is the In general, the volume of dynamic regulatory environment.
responsibility of the senior management of all functions, regulation impacting the Risks arise from legal and regulatory supported by the in-house legal and compliance teams.
obligations and the failure to correctly The legal and compliance teams track legal and regulatory Progress made in interpret law or changes in the law developments to ensure that the Group is well prepared for implementing AIFMD, which may materially and adversely both global and local changes.
As well as developing policies, CRDIV and FATCA impact the Group.
We may also be delivering training and performing monitoring checks, they regulations and planning subject to regulatory sanctions or loss provide advice to other divisions to enable compliance with for future changes.
of reputation from failure to comply legal and regulatory requirements.
Liquidity risk The Group aims to have sufficient The Groups cash position, available facilities and forecast cash No changes and the liquidity to meet its liabilities when flows are monitored by the Groups treasury function.
The Group continues to due under both normal and stressed Group's cash position continues to strengthen.
conditions, without incurring We prepare long term forecasts and use stress tests to assess unacceptable losses or risking damage the Groups future liquidity, as well as compliance with to the Groups reputation.
The cash and funding position of each subsidiary is monitored and each entity has access to appropriate liquidity.
Credit risk We face credit risk as a result of We monitor the value of deposits with our counterparties No change.
The principal against limits in our treasury policy.
As our cash balances have risks are in respect of deposits placed grown, have increased the number of counterparties where with banks.
The treasury function is supported by the front office credit team, as well as the market risk function who perform internal credit reviews.
Where appropriate, we extend our assessment of counterparty risk to include major suppliers.
Foreign currency risk The Groups results are reported in The Board reviews the currency profile of the Group, including No change.
Due to the geographically cash flows and balance sheet.
diverse locations in which Aberdeen Variations in the sterling value of operating costs and interest operates, business is conducted in costs will, to an extent, offset any similar impact of fluctuating a number of currencies.
These exchange rates on revenues.
include the US dollar, Singapore dollar and Euro.
The treasury function prepares a sensitivity analysis of the effect of changes in rates.
Further details on sensitivity to changes in currencies are set out in note 30 of the financial statements.
