GOVERNANCE UNDERSTANDING OUR MATERIAL RISKS Internal controls and risk management process unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of any change to this The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control status up to the approval of this Annual Report.
and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order The Group has a long established process for analysing its key to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the risks and adopts a proactive approach in this area, with ultimate procedures necessary to apply the Corporate Governance Code, ownership resting with respective Board and Executive Board including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and members who manage the specific risks associated with their areas delegated authority.
These procedures, which are in accordance of responsibility supported by a dedicated Group Internal Audit & with revised Turnbull Guidance, have been in place since before Risk Management Team.
the Group was listed and are regularly reviewed.
The Board has The Groups principal risks and uncertainties may be found delegated the detailed design of the systems of internal control on pages 25 to 27. and risk management to the Executive Directors and management.
Group Risk Management Framework The Group has in place internal control and risk management The Group Risk Management Framework is a well-established process systems in relation to financial reporting processes and for the adopted to ensure that the Group understands, evaluates and preparation of consolidated accounts.
These systems include mitigates the potential risks facing the business and is shown below.
policies and procedures to: facilitate the maintenance of records that accurately and fairly reflect transactions: Betfair Board provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, Audit Committee as appropriate: and require reported data to be reviewed and reconciled, with appropriate monitoring internally and by the Audit Committee.
Business performance is managed closely and the Board and the Executive Committee have established processes, as part Corporate Risk Committee of the normal good management of the business, to monitor: strategic plan achievement: financial performance within a comprehensive financial planning, accounting and reporting framework: Group Risk Group Internal capital investment and asset management performance, with Management Audit detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment reviews: consumer insight data and actions to evolve brands and formats to ensure that they continue to be appealing and relevant: and risk management, through an ongoing process, including reports from the Group Internal Audit & Risk Management Team, to Risk subBusiness Other control ensure that the significant risks faced by the Group are being committees: functions: andassurance identified, evaluated and appropriately managed, having regard functions Escalate critical Risks identified to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
Compliance, risks requiring by business Security, Business Corporate Risk functions In addition, the Audit Committee receives: Continuity Committee documented on Management, reports from the Corporate Risk Committee: review the risk register Fraud, Integrity, reports from the Group Internal Audit & Risk Management Anti-Money Laundering : Team on the work carried out under the annual internal audit plan: and Escalate key reports from KPMG, the external auditor.
risksrequiring Corporate Risk Through the monitoring processes set out above, the Board has Committee review conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year ended 30 April 2014.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective or 46 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Betfair has a comprehensive Group Risk Management Framework Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and Whistle-blowing policies across the whole of the organisation, based on sound principles of All employees, including contractors, are required to comply with good governance, to actively identify risks and mitigate them to these policies.
The Code of Conduct Policy sets the ethical and the extent considered appropriate, balancing risk and opportunity professional standards that are expected of all individuals, the to safeguard the business and its reputation.
The framework Anti-Bribery Policy specifies how we comply with the UK Bribery provides the Directors and senior management with a consolidated Act 2010 and other relevant legislation and the Whistle-blowing view of the key risks faced by the business which is evaluated and Policy details how matters can be raised and dealt with in strict updated regularly.
The Directors believe the Groups approach and confidence.
Any matters raised in accordance with these policies capabilities will, over the long term, contribute to the achievement are investigated thoroughly and reports are provided at each of the Groups strategic objectives.
meeting of the Corporate Risk Committee and Audit Committee, which monitors the effectiveness of these policies.
The Group Risk Management Framework comprises a number of sub-committees made up of senior Executives and relevant senior Group Internal Audit & Risk Management Team managers from across the Betfair Group, which deal with matters The team is responsible for giving risk-based, independent assurance of policy and control and exercise oversight of the operational to the Audit Committee and operating management on the implementation of risk management, together with several effectiveness of the Groups risk management, internal control operational functions.
There are also established processes and andgovernance processes.
procedures in place between Corporate Risk Committee meetings It provides assurance that: to deal with more urgent decisions and actions.
This framework is risk management practices are sound and operating effectively: overseen by the Corporate Risk Committee, which reports to the key risks are being managed to an acceptable level: Audit Committee.
internal controls are effective and efficient: and The Group Internal Audit & Risk Management Team co-ordinates, systems, processes and procedures are in place to assist in the structures and promotes the embedding of appropriate risk achievement of business objectives.
The teams responsibilities management practices across the business on an ongoing basis.
include reporting regularly to management on the effectiveness Arisk register is used by the business to document the risks of the Groups internal controls.
acrossthe whole organisation and how they are being managed.
The team reports to the Chief Financial Officer and the Director How we manage risk of Group Internal Audit & Risk Management has a direct reporting Corporate Risk Committee line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee with direct access The Corporate Risk Committee comprises the Chief Executive to the other members of the Audit Committee.
Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Legal Officer and Management actions from internal audits are tracked to completion the Director of Group Internal Audit & Risk Management.
and the status of actions on significant risks is reported to the The Corporate Risk Committee is responsible for the review of Audit Committee to ensure that the risks identified are significant business risk issues for Betfair, including but not limited appropriately addressed.
to money laundering, fraud, integrity, operational and legal and Security Team regulatory issues.
The Corporate Risk Committee makes The Information Security and Governance ISG team is responsible recommendations to the Audit Committee and, as appropriate, for providing the services that allow Betfair to best protect its tothe Board as to the Betfair Groups overall appetite for risk key information assets and includes data, hardware, customer andits approach to managing and mitigating risk.
It also reviews accounts, and employees.
The ISG team reports into the Chief Betfairs risk management and internal control frameworks to Information Officer CIO and sets the security strategy: conducts ensure consistent performance and recommends improvements security design reviews of new products and services: performs asnecessary.
To ensure that the risk process drives improvement security assessments of existing and new technologies: regular across the business, action plans for the principal risks and penetration testing: training and awareness: employee system uncertainties are reviewed at each Committee meeting together access reviews: security monitoring and response for threats with any recommendations to add emerging risks to remove against the Betfair infrastructure.
The ISG team uses a risk-based mitigated risks from these principal risks.
The Committee approach to mitigate security risks to the Company and the continues to drive a better understanding of risk appetite, Director of ISGchairs the bi-monthly Security Risk Committee tolerance and management across the business to focus on which is the vehicle for oversight and communication of our achievement of the strategic objectives and sustainable long-term keysecurity risks.
Key security risks, trends and mitigation growth of the business.
The Corporate Risk Committee meets programmes arecommunicated from this Committee on a quarterly and otherwise as required and reports matters of regularbasis totheCorporate Risk and Audit Committees.
significance at the subsequent Audit Committee meeting.
Betfair Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201447 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report GOVERNANCE UNDERSTANDING OUR MATERIAL RISKS CONTINUED Business continuity planning Additional risk management policies and practices relating Through its comprehensive business continuity strategy, Betfair to customers aims to be able to continue to service its customers irrespective Betfair has a number of important policies which are embedded of any incident or failure which may impact on any of Betfairs key in its operations to protect both its customers and Betfair from operating and technology locations.
The key components of this certain risks often associated with remote gambling.
In part, strategy are physical site security, departmental continuity plans these policies also help Betfair to meet licensing and regulatory for all functions and an information technology disaster recovery requirements and comply with applicable legislation.
Betfairs state of business continuity readiness is demonstrated underpin some important capabilities of Betfair, in particular by by a Business Continuity Management System that is not only facilitating the close and consistent co-operation of several of consistent with current industry standards and best practice, but is therisk management functions described in this section.
also aligned with the Business Continuity Institutes BCIs Good KYC customer due diligence: Betfair operates a sophisticated Practice Guidelines.
Betfair recognises that the business continuity four-level customer due diligence process referred to as Know discipline is key for maintaining competitive advantage and is Your Customer or KYC, which uses both automated and a significant contributor to effective corporate governance.
manual methods to verify a customers age, identity and source Governance oversight is provided by the Business Continuity of funds.
The KYC process also assesses the extent and quality Steering Committee which meets quarterly.
of the customers verification information in determining Information technology disaster recovery DR capability is a key whether to allow the customer to operate a Betfair betting part of the wider business continuity plan.
The objective of the account, either at all, or above certain levels of activity.
Betfairs DR strategy is to ensure that response and recovery of Betfairs KYC processes are integral to the anti-money laundering AML, technology infrastructure is in line with prioritised business needs fraud and integrity policies and practices described below.
Betfair has pre-placed Anti-customer fraud measures: Betfair has a 24 7 fraud team equipment in dedicated DR sites in Ireland to which key products, looking for suspicious activity.
The team use a number of technology operations and back-end functionality can be moved over in-house and external applications, including the use of and remotely operated.
While not in DR use, this equipment is used adaptivebehavioural analytics tools, to protect Betfair and to performance and capacity test new software code before ourcustomers.
The team liaise with regulators, local law deployment to Betfairs live environment.
enforcement agencies and other operators to ensure we maintaina good understanding of current fraud trends.
Compliance Team Underage betting and gaming: All customers are required to The Compliance Team provides advice and administrative assistance confirm upon registration that they are over the legal age for across the Betfair business in the development, licensing and gambling within each particular jurisdiction.
As an essential and launch of new products, and day to day product and process specific component of the customer due diligence policy referred compliance with existing licences and Betfair regulatory policies.
to above, Betfair also carries out age verification checks on Together, Betfairs compliance managers and compliance analysts all customers who use payment mechanisms which may be maintain an ongoing dialogue with gambling regulators, technical available to under-18s, and performs age verification checks testing bodies and relevant staff within the business to ensure that onselected customers.
Betfair suspends all UK customers who Betfair operates in accordance with the terms of its licences and fail to verify their age within 72 hours.
Betfair advises and relevant legislation.
encourages its customers to prevent minors from accessing This team is responsible for applying for, and obtaining, relevant betting and gaming websites.
gambling licences in jurisdictions which the business has identified Ring-fenced customer funds: Betfair holds all Core Betfair as a suitable market to offer its products.
The team co-ordinates customer monies in separately managed bank accounts, which are and organises the collation and submission of the application and safeguarded independently of Betfairs corporate funds under the supporting documents and acts as adviser to the product and terms of a Trust Deed or, where required under the terms of any technology teams to ensure the new jurisdictional requirements licence, such funds are held in a separate non set-off bank account are met.
in the name of the licence holder.
48 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Anti-Money Laundering Team Regulatory overview Betfairs AML compliance policy encompasses a collection of Betfair operates in a heavily regulated sector where changes in procedures, technologies and techniques to: regulation can have a significant impact on its operations.
The regulation and legality of online betting and gaming varies from make a risk-based assessment of all financial transactions using jurisdiction to jurisdiction from open licensing regimes to sanctions Betfair payment, betting and gaming systems: or prohibitions and in certain jurisdictions there is no directly establish and implement relevant record-keeping requirements applicable legislation.
Besides the regulatory changes, online across the business: betting and gaming is subject to other uncertainties in many report on an ongoing basis to the relevant statutory authorities jurisdictions and approaches to enforcement of local laws vary.
any suspicious circumstances concerning financial transactions: and ensure regular staff training in Betfairs AML procedures.
Bearing all these factors in mind, Betfairs commercial and marketing strategy is designed to achieve sustainable revenue A dedicated AML Team is responsible for assessing and fromregulated jurisdictions.
The Group holds gambling licences implementing Betfairs AML policy in accordance with the inMalta, Gibraltar, USA, Australia, Italy, Spain, Denmark Financial Action Task Force FATF recommendations, European andBulgaria.
The AML Team is also Betfairs determination, as to whether or not to permit customers responsible for managing Betfairs anti-bribery strategy in in a given jurisdiction to access any one or more of its products accordance with the requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010. and whether to engage with customers, is made on the basis of its Integrity Team and Rules and Regulations Committee measured and prudent approach to legal and regulatory compliance, The Integrity Team is responsible for monitoring betting activity and is based on a number of factors which include: on Betfairs sports betting products, investigating any potentially the terms of Betfairs betting and gaming licences in suspicious betting activity, and is the main point of liaison for : sports regulatory bodies.
Betfair has Memoranda of Understanding the laws and regulations of the jurisdiction including state, MoUs in place with 58 sports regulators, under which, in certain federal or supranational law including EU law if applicable, and circumstances, Betfair shares relevant information about its inparticular the way in which such laws and regulations apply customers with MoU partners to help in policing the betting to the specific betting and gaming products and specific types integrity related rules which govern the participants of the relevant of related activity, including marketing: and sport and or the prevention and detection of crime.
The sports the approach to the application or enforcement of such laws and governing body may then use the personal information shared regulations by regulatory and other authorities in the jurisdiction.
byBetfair under the MoU to investigate and act on any such breaches in accordance with its own procedures.
Betfair also offers Insurance its sporting MoU partners access to Betfairs BetMonitor tool, With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure aproprietary technology portal which enables regulators to against every risk to the fullest extent.
The Group regularly monitor betting activity by Betfair customers in real time.
reviews both the type and amount of external insurance that it The Directors consider Betfairs MoU framework and information buys with guidance from an external broker, bearing in mind the sharing policy to be market leading and a key contributor to the availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude trust with which Betfair is regarded by customers, sports and of the risks involved.
Ian Dyson Maintaining the integrity of Betfairs betting markets is important Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the to Betfairs reputation for fairness amongst customers and sports Audit Committee bodies.
To this end the MoU framework is complemented by a comprehensive and detailed set of betting rules which Betfair applies in the operation of its betting markets.
Those rules, together with decisions about the operation and settlement of betting markets and practices relating to customers, are overseen by Betfairs Rules and Regulations Committee, which reports as necessary to the Corporate Risk Committee.
Betfair Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201449 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
