Regulators External Audit STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal Operational Management as the first line of defence has primary controls and risk management framework which is designed to responsibility to embed and manage internal controls and risk identify, manage and mitigate risks and exploit opportunities.
management on a day to day business as usual basis.
It is based on the three lines of defence model below.
The second line oversight and assurance functions set appropriate During the year a comprehensive review of risks has been policies, provide guidance, advice and direction on implementation undertaken throughout the Group, principally through facilitated of those policies and monitor the first line of defence.
risk workshops, to ensure that all potentially material risks have The third line and external audit provide independent challenge been identified, owners agreed and management mitigation plans and assurance on the above and advice on improvements.
The material risks were reviewed at an Regulators periodically check our compliance with legislation Executive level workshop plus subsequent Executive meetings and and licence requirements.
at both Audit Committee and Corporate Risk Committee meetings.
The principal risks and uncertainties which are considered to have Risk governance and responsibilities a potentially material impact on the Groups long-term performance The Board has overall responsibility for the framework and the and achievement of strategy are set out on the following pages, Audit Committee for assessing the scope and effectiveness of the inno particular order, but grouped by type of risk.
External and systems established by management to identify, assess, monitor, internal risk factors are considered.
This is not intended to be manage and mitigate the risks and exploit opportunities.
anexhaustive and extensive analysis of all risks which may affect The Corporate Risk Committee is responsible for ensuring that the the Group.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known various levels of management and lines of defence are performing to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may their roles in risk management, that the risk register is properly alsohave an adverse effect on the business.
Further details of maintained, material risks are being properly addressed and howour risk management framework and policies are embedded emerging risks identified and monitored.
Executive Management are responsible for ensuring that risk management is an integral part of business as usual, that appropriate internal controls are in place and that all key risks are identified, assessed, monitored, managed and mitigated.
Betfair Board Audit Committee Executive Management Corporate Risk Committee 1st Line of Defence 2nd Line of Defence 3rd Line of Defence Operational Compliance team Group Internal Audit Management & Risk Management Legal team Internal Controls Integrity team Anti-Money Laundering team Security team Betfair Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201425 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED KEY RISK UNCERTAINTY DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT HOW WE MANAGE MITIGATE Online gambling regulation and licensing EU non-EU Strategic External Many jurisdictions are in the process of Any new licensing regime, adverse regulatory We work closely with regulators and governments regulating their online gambling market decisions or tax base that makes it commercially involved in the regulation of online gambling by introducing regulation and licensing.
unviable for Betfair to operate its Exchange, throughout the EU and elsewhere to ensure that Sportsbook and Gaming products could we secure favourable regulation for our products.
While opportunities exist, they are not restrictour ability to grow the business, External third parties help us to substantiate without risks such as commercial viability, gainaccess tonew customers and, ultimately, delays in licensing of betting exchanges evidence to support using a gross profits increaserevenues.
compared with other products, how our products are taxed and licensing one section Consequently this could impact our We have dedicated internal and external legal, strategic objectives to focus on sustainable of the online market, such as sports betting, tax, compliance and public affairs resources but not another, such as casinos or poker.
revenues and accelerate growth through with responsibility for advising business units international opportunities.
Our strategy is to focus on sustainable in these matters.
Overall taking into account these factors and the focus on regulated jurisdictions there has been a substantial reduction in the potential impact on our licensed operations during the year.
Our products competition Strategic External Online gambling is a very competitive Our product offering could become less Our product delivery activity includes an industry.
Our competitors are constantly attractive in relation to competitors offers.
approval process whereby appropriate products looking to gainadvantage through aggressive are assessed for suitability and priority to bring Disproportionate growth in risk products such marketing campaigns, pricing, promotional to market.
as multiples and fixed odds could result in a behaviour andnew product features which volatile earnings pattern.
Our experienced Trading Team and Sportsbook could impact revenue or margins.
Product Risk Team constantly monitor client activity and We could fail to maximise the revenues earned anddelivery to market is vital to gain betting patterns relating to those risk products.
competitive edge over other operators.
We monitor competitor promotional activities, We could have to find alternative suppliers We rely on a number of third parties pricing and products and continue to invest in in the event of their failure to provide the in particular to support our Sportsbook brand, technology and product development.
and some of our Gaming products.
We have strong relationships with key suppliers Consequently this could impact our strategic and continue to assess their resilience and to objectives to focus on sustainable revenues review options in the event of a need andto invest in product and brand.
We have increased our investment in product, brand and marketing in regulated jurisdictions.
Overall taking into account the above, although the risk is being addressed there has not been any material change in potential impact.
Infrastructure and systems Operational We rely on IT infrastructure and systems We rely on our customers being able to access We regularly review our business continuity and forour core operations and their overall markets via the internet and any extended loss IT disaster recovery plans and have service level management.
of connectivity could have a material effect agreements in place with third parties.
Potential risks include: Our Group Security Team regularly reviews and Any failure of the Groups and or third party assesses our systems in terms of potential threat site outages and or loss of customer infrastructure could lead to significant costs and and vulnerability.
We carry out targeted connectivity: disruptions that could reduce revenue and harm infrastructure testing and have implemented our software error: our business reputation.
own Secure Coding Standard for use within the reliance on third parties: business.
We use a variety of systems and Breach or loss of customer or other sensitive applications testing tools for critical customer unauthorised access to customer or other data could lead to significant costs and facing applications.
sensitive data by employees, third party disruptions that could impact revenue providers or through cyber-attack: and andharmour business reputation.
Overall taking into account these factors there has not been any material change in potential as we increase our reliance on third parties, Consequently this could impact all of our strategic impact during the year.
the potential to maliciously access data and objectives, to focus on sustainable revenues, to for data compromise could increase.
invest in product and brand and to accelerate growth through international opportunities.
26 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 KEY RISK UNCERTAINTY DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT HOW WE MANAGE MITIGATE Customers Strategic Operational Our customers are at the heart of the Reduced activity by a significant number We closely monitor the behaviour of customers business.
Macroeconomic factors such of customers could have a material adverse and have teams focused on their management aslicensing, regulatory, tax or other effect on our operations, financial and retention.
developments outside Betfairs control performance and prospects.
We aim to ensure we provide a service and coulddeter a significant number of Consequently this could impact all of our platform which grow value for both the customersfrom using our products.
strategic objectives, to focus on sustainable customer and Betfair, and significantly revenues, to invest in product and brand and reduce the risk of customers leaving.
to accelerate growth through international We have increased our investment in product, opportunities.
brand and marketing in regulated jurisdictions.
Overall, taking into account the above, although the risk is being addressed there has not been any material change in potential impact.
Financial Certain jurisdictions have put pressure Reduced ability to transact with customers.
We have strong relationships with key onbanks to refuse to process transactions suppliers and continue to assess both their Various taxes could materialise.
resilience and to review options in the event Adverse foreign exchange exposures could of a need for change.
There are tax risks around the governance impact on Group revenues.
oftax planning structures which could result We monitor our adherence to tax planning A break-up of the Eurozone, or defaults within inunexpected liabilities.
through regular reviews of the governance it, could have a wide range of negative impacts.
Due to the international nature of the Actual or perceived mismanagement of business, the Group is exposed to the impact We monitor exposure to foreign exchange risk customer funds could have severe financial and where appropriate use financial instruments of foreign exchange fluctuations on deposits andreputational impacts.
to mitigate any associated risk.
There is a possibility of loss arising in the event Whilst the future of some member countries Incident management plans are in place to of failure of counterparties.
ofthe Eurozone remains uncertain this could address the unpredictable nature of events which Consequently this could impact all of our expose the Group to a wide range of issues, could lead to the potential default or break-up strategic objectives, to focus on sustainable such as currency payment methods and loss of the Eurozone.
revenues, to invest in product and brand and ofbusiness in certain jurisdictions.
Daily and monthly reconciliations of the to accelerate growth through international Under the terms of a Trust Deed, Betfair customerfunds balance take place to ensure opportunities.
generally holds all customer monies in timely detection, in the event of fraud or error.
separately managed bank accounts which Client and Corporate funds are subject to aresafeguarded independently of Betfairs thegroup treasury policy which is reviewed corporate funds.
Funds are spread across We hold the majority of Client and Corporate anumber of highly rated or systemically funds with separate counterparties.
important counterparties in short-term liquid instruments.
In certain jurisdictions we hold short-term operational balances with strong local banks.
Exposures to counterparties are regularly reviewed by Chief Financial Officer and adjusted accordingly.
At 30 April 2014 the majority of the Groups Client and Corporate funds were held with major systemically important counterparties or pooled AAA rated money market funds.
Overall taking into account these factors there has not been any material change in potential impact during the year.
People key employees Operational Our success and anticipated future growth If we are unable to remain competitive Group HR actively manage succession planning is in part dependent on the continued services in our compensation packages and career and processes which are in place throughout the and performance of certain Directors, development, this would reduce our ability to: business to identify key roles, conduct regular managers and key staff.
succession and talent reviews, and to provide retain Executives, managers and key staff: competitive package and career development Our ability to continue to attract, retain attract, retain and motivate highly skilled opportunities.
and motivate highly skilled employees in employees: and anintensely competitive environment means Our employees participate in engagement engage staff with their jobs and the Groups that competitive packages and development surveys which help us to link improvements to objectives.
achieving our corporate goals while reducing Consequently this could impair our operations, employee turnover and improving productivity financial performance and ultimately impact our and wellbeing.
strategic objectives, to focus on sustainable Overall taking into account these factors and revenues, to invest in product and brand and completion of the group restructure, there has toaccelerate growth through international been a reduction in potential impact during opportunities.
Betfair Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201427 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
