118786 ASCOT Txt PRINT 118786 ASCOT Txt V11 29 01 2015 16:44 Page 5 Principal Risks The Board carefully considers the principal risks faced by the Company and seeks to manage these risks through continual review, evaluation and taking action as necessary.
Investment in small companies is generally perceived to carry more risk than investment in large companies.
While this is reasonable when comparing individual companies, it is much less so when comparing the volatility of returns from diversified portfolios of small and large companies.
In addition, the Company has a simple capital structure and outsources all the main operational activities to recognised, well-established firms.
The principal risks faced by the Company, together with the approach taken by the Board towards them, have been summarised below: i Investment policy performance the performance of the investment portfolio will typically not match the performance of the benchmark and will be influenced by market related risks including market price and liquidity refer to Note 18 for further details.
The Boards aim is to achieve the investment objective over the long term whilst managing risk by ensuring the investment portfolio is managed appropriately.
The Board has outsourced portfolio management to experienced managers with a well defined investment process and receives regular and detailed reports on investment performance.
Peer group performance is also regularly monitored by the Board.
ii Share price discount investment trust shares tend to trade at discounts to their underlying net asset values.
The Board and the Managers monitor the discount on a daily basis.
The Board intends to continue to use the share buyin facility to seek to sustain as low a discount as seems possible.
iii Gearing risk in rising markets, gearing would enhance returns: however, in falling markets the gearing effect would adversely affect returns to Shareholders.
The Board and the Managers consider the gearing strategy and associated risk on a regular basis.
iv Reputational risk the Board and the Managers monitor external factors affecting the reputation of the Company and or the key service providers and take action if appropriate.
v Risk appetite the effect of inappropriate investment risk appetite or failure to establish an appropriate framework to manage the Company to a desired risk level.
The Managers have a clearly defined investment philosophy and they manage a diversified portfolio.
The Board continually monitors the Companys performance against the benchmark, and regularly receives detailed portfolio analysis, including risk measures.
vi Regulatory risk failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the Companys share price listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could lead to the Company being subject to capital gains tax.
The Board receives quarterly compliance reports from the Secretaries to monitor compliance with rules and regulations, together with information on future developments.
Other Information Board Diversity The Board recognises the importance of diversity in its broadest sense including skills, experience, gender and tenure in enabling it to fulfil the present and future needs of the Company.
As at 31 December 2014, there were three male Directors and two female Directors.
Environmental, Human Rights, Employee, Social Community Issues The requirement to detail information about environmental matters, human rights, social and community issues do not apply to the Company as it has no employees: all Directors are non-executive and it has outsourced its functions to third party service providers.
Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 5
