PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The table below sets out the principal risks Admiral has identified through its Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF as having the potential for a material adverse affect on Admirals profitability and solvency.
The report on Corporate Governance on pages 44 to 48 describes the ERMF in place throughout the Group.
RISK IMPACT MITIGATING FACTORS Insurance risk Reserving risk in UK and International Car Insurance Admiral is exposed to reserving risk Adverse run-off leading to higher Admiral has a conservative reserving policy and continues to hold a material through its underwriting of motor claims costs in the financial statements.
margin in its financial statement claims reserves above actuarially determined and household insurance policies.
Also, resultant loss of profit commission best estimates.
Claims reserves in the financial from proportional co-insurance and Best estimate reserves are estimated both internally and externally by an statements may prove inadequate reinsurance arrangements.
to cover the ultimate cost of earned claims which are bynature uncertain.
Many of the potential causes of claims shocks are outside the control of Admiral for example legislative changes or changes in the Ogden discount rate and the focus is, therefore, on how to prepare for and react to the occurrence of such events.
Admiral holds a margin in booked reserves to cover significant legislative changes impacting earned claims.
Furthermore, Admiral continues to hold an additional margin in its reserves in excess of the projected ultimate outcomes to cover other potential claim shocks.
The Group continues to make material investments in staff and systems to work on the identification and prevention of claims fraud.
For very large claims Admiral purchases excess of loss reinsurance, which mitigates the loss to the selected deductible amount.
Underwriting risk in UK and International Car Insurance The Group is exposed to the risk Higher claims costs and loss There are a number of aspects which contribute to Admirals strong UK that claims costs on business written ratios, reducing profitability or underwriting results, including: and earned in the future is higher resulting in underwriting losses.
@ Experienced and focused senior management and teams in key business areas thanexpected.
Also, resultant lossof profit including pricing and claims management.
commission from proportional This might arise due to very large or co-insurance and @ Highly data-driven and analytical approach to regular monitoring of claims catastrophic man-made or natural .
@ Capability to identify and resolve underperformance promptly through changes to key performance drivers, particularly pricing.
@ Continuous appraisal of and investment in staff, systems and processes.
Admiral purchases excess of loss reinsurance, designed to mitigate the impact of very large individual or catastrophe event claims.
The Group continues to work to establish similar capability and expertise in its newer UK and international businesses.
Reduced availability of co-insurance and reinsurance arrangements Admiral uses proportional A potential need to raise additional Admiral mitigates the risk to its reinsurance arrangements by ensuring that co-insurance and reinsurance capital to support underwriting.
ithas a diverse range of financially secure partners.
Admiral has enjoyed a long across its insurance businesses Thiscould be in the form of equity term relationship with one of the worlds largest reinsurers, Munich Re, which toreduce its own capital needs or debt.
has supported Admiral since 2000. and increase return on the capital Return on equity might reduce Admiral also has relationships with a number of other reinsurers, including it does hold and to mitigate the compared to current levels.
Amlin Re, Hannover Re, XL Re, Mapfre Re, New Re and Swiss Re.
cost and risk of establishing newoperations.
In the UK, reinsurance arrangements have been agreed until at least the endof2016, reflecting confidence in the Admiral UK Car Insurance business.
There is a risk that support will The long term co-insurance agreement with Munich Re covering 40% of the notbe available in the future if the UK Car Insurance business will remain in place until at least the end of 2018. results and or future prospects ofeither the UK business or more Long term arrangements are also in place for international and realistically one or more of the householdbusinesses.
newer operations are not satisfactory for the coand or reinsurers.
36 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
CO. UK INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION RISK IMPACT MITIGATING FACTORS Strategic risk Erosion of competitive advantage in UK Car Insurance Admiral typically maintains a A worse UK Car Insurance result and Admirals focus remains on the wide range of factors that contribute to Admirals significant combined ratio advantage lower return on equity.
combined ratio outperformance of the UK market.
Some are set out on page 36, over the UK market.
butin addition: A sustained and uncorrected erosion This advantage and or the level of of competitive advantage could @ Track record of innovation and ability to react quickly to market conditions and underwriting profit and associated affect the ability of Admiral to extend developments.
profit commission could be eroded.
its reinsurance arrangements, which @ Keen focus on maintaining a low-cost infrastructure and efficient acquisition costs.
might in turn require Admiral to hold This risk could be exacerbated by morecapital.
Failure of geographic and or product expansion Admiral continues to develop and Higher than planned losses and Admirals approach to expansion remains conservative, applying the test support the UK household and potentially closure costs and andlearn philosophy that has proven successful for previous operations.
International insurance businesses have executed cautious launch strategies and are all backed by proportional reinsurance support which provides One or more of the operations A collective failure of these businesses substantial mitigation against start-up losses in the early years.
could fail to become a sustainable, would threaten Admirals objective profitable long term business.
todiversify its earnings by expanding New price comparison businesses have aligned their marketing investment into new markets and products.
with the extent of improvement in key performance indicators such as average cost per quote and conversion ratio.
The Group also accepts partial disposals of equity to share start-up losses with partners.
The Directors are mindful of management stretch and regularly assess the suitability of the management structure in place for Admirals new UK and international operations.
The new UK Household Insurance business is backed by proportional reinsurance support which provides mitigation against start-up losses andexcess of loss reinsurance which mitigates potential losses from catastropheevents.
Group risk Potential diminution of Other Revenue Admiral earns Other Revenue Lower profits from insurance operations Admiral continuously assesses the value to its customers of the products it offers, fromaportfolio of products and lower return on equity.
and makes changes to ensure the products continue to meet customer needs and andother sources.
The level of this revenue could Admiral seeks to minimise reliance on any single source by earning revenue diminish due to regulatory or legal froma range of products.
This mitigates the impact of a regulatory change changes, customer behaviour or which might affect a particular product or income stream.
Competition in UK Price Comparison Admiral is dependent on the A potentially material reduction in UK Admirals ownership of Confused.
com one of the leading UK price comparison fourmain UK price comparison Car Insurance new business volumes.
websites which operates independently of the UK Car Insurance business helps websites as an important source to mitigate the risk of over-reliance on this distribution channel.
com of ofnew business and growth.
higher levels of competition in the Admiral also contributes materially to the revenues of other price comparison Growth in this distribution channel price comparison market, either businesses and therefore it is not considered probable that a material source could slow, cease or reverse, or through the aggressive activities of new business would be lost.
Admiral could lose one or more ofexisting players or the entry of The management of Confused.
com maintain a very keen awareness of the ofthe websites as a source significant new participants, would risks of continued competition.
However, a more competitive marketmight benefit the UK Car Insurance business through loweracquisition costs.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 37 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED RISK IMPACT MITIGATING FACTORS Credit risk Credit risk of significant counterparties Admiral is primarily exposed to Additional capital may need to be Admiral only conducts business with reinsurers of appropriate financial credit risk in the form of a default raised as a result of a major credit event, strength.
In addition, most reinsurance contracts are operated on a funds of reinsurer and b failure of banking dependent on its nature andseverity.
withheld basis, which substantially reduces credit risk, as Admiral holds the orinvestment counterparty.
Admiral would also need to ensure thatit had sufficient liquid assets to With respect to investment counterparties, there are no specific concentrations meet its claims and other liabilities of credit risk due to the structure of the liquidity funds which invest in a wide asthey fell due.
range of short duration, high quality securities.
Cash balances and deposits areplaced only with highly rated credit institutions.
Some long term investments are held in Government bonds to further mitigate the exposure to credit risk.
Admiral considers counterparty exposure frequently and in significant detail, and has in place appropriate triggers and limits, to mitigate exposure toindividual investment counterparties.
Conduct risk Failure of products, processes or Potential customer detriment and or Admiral operates the three lines of defence model for overseeing its products, service to meet customer and potential regulatory censure processes and service.
At each stage of the customer journey customer regulator expectations and failure enforcement and or reputational outcomes are monitored, managed and reported in order to mitigate to address customer complaints damage as a result of Admirals action.
Further detail on how Admiral interacts with its customers is set out on page 12 and in the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Report available online.
Operational risk People risk Failure to recruit, develop and retain Unable to successfully carry out Admiral Strong Company culture underpinned by communication, equality, reward, suitable talent.
Further detail on how Group strategy and achieve goals.
Admiral interacts with its employees Failure of projects would most likely @ Objectives and personal development plans.
is set out on page 13 and in the CSR result in additional costs for the Group.
@ Understanding gained through staff surveys and team meetings.
In addition, the risk of project @ Succession and graduate plans.
More specifically, projects @ Sponsorship programme designed to give staff benefits and develop pride relating to system upgrades and inbrand s. Solvency II.
IT risk Failure to invest in, and successfully Unable to support the required @ Regular review of the effectiveness of the Groups IT capability by Executive implement, appropriate technology growth and development essential management and the Board.
particularly Guidewire for future business success, maintaining @ Strong governance and oversight of major systems developments.
implementation in the UK to competitor advantage and developing support the Groups future business the Groups business model.
development, mitigated by regular review of the effectiveness of the Groups IT capability by Executive management and the Board.
In addition, the emerging risk relating to IT security and cyber risk are areas of growing focus for the Group.
Regulatory risk Failure to comply with regulatory Exposure to regulatory intervention Mitigated by regular review of the Groups compliance with current and proposed requirements and or changes.
In and or censure and or enforcement requirements and interaction with regulators by Executive management and particular, the risk of non-compliance action through fines and other tools the Board.
with Solvency II requirements available to the regulator.
Solvency II progress has primarily been mitigated through significant investment ahead of 1st January 2016. in resources for the Solvency II Project, with regular communication with both the Board and the regulators on progress against the agreed project plan.
This Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: Henry Engelhardt Chief Executive Officer 4 March 2015 38 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
CO. UK INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Admiral serves a realsocial purpose Our business is to protect people, as much as we can, from the adverse consequences of car accidents, or from damage to their home.
Inaddition toproviding protection for our customers, we aim to contribute positively to the wider communities in which we operate.
We centre our business onfour ofoursignificant stakeholders These four stakeholders also drive the core focus of our corporate social responsibility strategy: our customers, ourpeople, our community and our environment.
To read more about our corporate social responsibility strategy visit www.
co. uk ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 39
