34 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T P PR RIN INC CIP IPA AL R L RIS ISK KS A S AN ND UN D UNC CER ERT TA AIN INT TIE IES S Effective identification, assessment and management of BGGroups principal risks and uncertainties, the implementation of associated controls and the monitoring ofsources of assurance, is integral to howthe Group runs its business.
The Board has considered carefully BG Groups approach to the system of risk a Three Lines ofDefence model to manage and mitigate the nature and extent of the risks management and internal control is articulated risk and assure preventative and containment controls.
anduncertainties it is willing andmanaged through the Groups Enterprise totakein achieving the Groups FIRST LINE OF DEFENCE RiskManagement ERM Framework.
Corporate functions set requirements for risk management To help stakeholders understand The ERM Framework is the process by which we: and internal control through the ERM Framework.
These theGroups principal risks and requirements are assured, implemented and operated Define risk appetite: the Board and Executive Management uncertainties, we provide a by management at BGGroup assets and functions commentary on why the risk might Committee EMC determine the extent to which around the globe, who have primary accountability for the materialise, what impact the risk theGroup is willing to accept and manage those risks and might have on the Group should the operation of controls to mitigate risk.
Each asset identifies uncertainties in the pursuitofits strategic objectives: risk materialise, and how the Group the inherent risks to its business, and the potential causes Identify and assess risks: the nature and extent of mitigates the risk.
Thiscommentary and impact, and then considers therelated preventative isa summary ofthe main factors theGroups principal risks and uncertainties are and containment controls tomitigate the risk to an andshould not beconsidered as identified, analysed and assessed: beingexhaustive.
Please refer to acceptable residual level.
Design and execute controls: the Group puts in place theImportant noteson page 41. appropriate control systems directed at mitigating SECOND LINE OF DEFENCE See our Corporate Governance those risks and uncertainties: Technical andfunctional experts provide management report on page 51 for more Monitor risks and assure controls: the management assurance over aspects offirst-line controls, resulting in information.
The chart on page 58 describes the Groups Enterprise andmitigation of risks and uncertainties are monitored formal reports andactions that are tracked to closure.
Risk Management Framework and associated internal controls are assured in the THIRD LINE OF DEFENCE in more detail.
short and longer term through ongoing Board and Independent assessment and reporting on the management oversight and performance review effectiveness of the Groups risk management and processes.
The effect of uncertainty on the Groups internal control system is provided to the Board or cash flow and earnings profiles is modelled and Audit Committee by Group Audit.
usedasan input to decision-making: and Take and track actions: ensure appropriate actions This is augmented by independent external oversight aretaken to strengthen controls and reduce risk.
provided by Ernst & Young LLP and Miller & Lents Ltd.
The Board, EMC and Audit Committee provide BG Group seeks to embed effective risk oversight and direction inaccordance with their management within the Groups management and respective responsibilities.
governance processes through the application of THE RISK MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENT robustand flexible funding plan for the business.
The falls in commodity prices seen in the second half These measures will include a focus on operational delivery, of2014, demonstrate the risks associated with operating driving efficiencies and cost savings, tight management inthe global energy markets and the benefits of having of capital investment, and ensuring strong liquidity.
a robust ERM Framework through which the Groups The success of our ventures in Brazil and Australia remain principal risks and uncertainties areidentified and key elements to the future growth of the Group.
The current lower-price environment puts we are approaching completion of the initial phases of the pressure on the Groups revenues, cash flows and capital investment programme for the QCLNG project.
In the balance sheet and, in mitigation, the Group will be Santos Basin in Brazil, we now have three FPSOs on plateau focusing on optimising capital expenditure through production and have started up two more.
Both Australia capital discipline and rigorous project and investment and Brazil have relatively low cash costs of production which appraisal at lower commodity price sensitivities.
The helps to underpin cash generation in a relatively low Group must also retain flexibility toadapt its plans for commodity price environment.
However, they are large and further cyclical changes in the external environment.
complex projects technically and commercially and their Commodity price risk was identified as one of the principal scale produces concentration risk in the Groups overall risks and uncertainties on which the Board focused in portfolio.
In this context, the Group recognises the need 2014.
The Group recognises that the low commodity to maintain a sharp focus on areas such as fiscal risk and priceenvironment may also increase exposure to a number government take risk and on ourpartner relationships, of other risks, such as our ability to: i access capital especially where we are not operator.
In Brazil, we are closely and liquidity: ii add new resources and reserves to monitoring how the current corruption allegations affecting theportfolio through existing and new exploration Petrobras mayimpact the cost and schedule of the Santos opportunities: iii take final investment decisions on Basin developments because of supply chain disruption major growth projects: and iv execute our portfolio and orcapital and liquidity constraints placed on Petrobras.
In response, the Group in close The nature of these risks, and how the Group seeks consultation with the Board has identified, and will tomanage and mitigate them, is explained further seek to manage, mitigations to help to ensure a in this report.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT | PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 35 The principal risks and uncertainties upon which the Board and EMC has been focused in 2014, and will continue to spend much of its time in 2015, aredescribed below.
ASSET INTEGRITY, SAFETY, HEALTH AND SECURITY Risk description What impact the materialisation of this risk might have on the Group A major accident hazard event in a BG Group venture, including Employee, contractor or civilian fatality.
majorprocess safety and asset integrity related events.
safety or health incident in a BG Group venture.
A BG Group venture Litigation by individuals or action by local authorities or host nation, may be subject to violent attack, demonstrations or blockades or potentially leading to fines and penalties.
maybe unable to operate as expected due to major in-country Damage to Group reputation, potential threat to Licence to Operate.
disruption war, civil disorder, revolution.
Business interruption, lost production and associated lost revenues.
Cost and or schedule overruns.
Why this risk might materialise How the Group mitigates this risk Action by malicious group or person, including terrorism.
Development and application of an HSSE Management System Operating in countries with inherent health issues.
Framework and the Safety Case process.
Inconsistent application of standards or implementation Contractor selection and management processes, with identification and operation of management systems.
of high HSSE risk contracts for increased focus and assurance.
Failure to maintain assets appropriately.
HSSE and Asset Integrity audit processes.
Assets operating outside their design envelope.
Reliance on the operator in non-operated joint ventures.
Emergency response, crisis response and oil spill response plans.
Engineering solutions, for example fire and gas detection systems, shutdown systems.
COMMODITY PRICE RISK Risk description What impact the materialisation of this risk might have on the Group Movements in hydrocarbon prices may have an adverse Pressure on Group revenues, cash flows and balance sheet.
Consequent loss of value for our hydrocarbon assets.
Pressure on, and potential for downgrading of, Group credit ratings.
Pressure on development project economics and reductions in our capital investment programme.
Why this risk might materialise How the Group mitigates this risk Changes in global supply and demand for hydrocarbons, Driving efficiencies and cost savings.
including those due to technological change.
Robust funding plans and adequate committed funding lines based Macroeconomic developments.
on the Groups view of price uncertainty.
Flexible investment options which can be exercised or deferred OPEC policy.
depending on expected future cash flow.
Investments judged against a range of potential market outcomes, with more rigorous project and investment appraisal in a low commodity price environment.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT | PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED 36 PARTNER RELATIONSHIPS Risk description What impact the materialisation of this risk might have on the Group Dependence on, inability to influence, or misalignment with partners.
In general, the Group fails to deliver its business or development plans Where we are dependent on our partners, progress with our ventures and stated objectives due to partner misalignment.
may be hampered by events impacting our partner but unrelated Potential for competing objectives, priorities and decision-drag.
Note that Petrobras is subject to investigations Potential reputational damage in the event of our partner having a regarding allegations related to several large mainly construction major operational or ethical conduct event in a non-operated joint contractors forming a cartel and paying bribes in order to secure venture environment.
BG Group is monitoring the situation, including the There may be cost and schedule overruns because of partners potential impact of supply chain disruption and or capital and restricted access to funding and or the impact of supply chain disruption.
liquidity constraints placed on Petrobras.
Why this risk might materialise How the Group mitigates this risk BG Group enters into ventures where it is not the operator or does Decision-making process regarding strategic partner selection not have full operational control.
and associated due diligence processes.
Limited rights under joint operating agreements JOAs as a result Drafting, reviewing and sign-off of JOAs to preserve BG Groups of poor negotiation or inherently weak negotiating positions.
Stakeholder management and influencing through the development of effective working relationships and through the strength of BG Groups technical skills and knowledge.
Diligent exercise of BG Groups rights under the JOAs and its powers in joint venture governance structures for example in Operating Committees.
Close monitoring of partner activities, processes and progress, including through creation of shadow teams in non-operated joint venture environments, where appropriate.
FISCAL RISK AND GOVERNMENT TAKE Risk description What impact the materialisation of this risk might have on the Group Governments and their agencies may act in a way that reduces Loss of value through government action which may take the form or extracts value from BG Group at a level greater than that assumed of: the imposition of new taxes: more aggressive implementation in the business plan, including through contract renegotiation, of existing tax regimes: contract renegotiation or reinterpretation: expropriation, increased taxation or other action.
total or creeping expropriation: domestic market obligations: local content requirements: licence and permit fees: local levies: social investment requirements: and or fines and penalties.
Why this risk might materialise How the Group mitigates this risk Government desire for a greater share of created value.
Creation and maintenance of a strong Licence to Operate.
Government response to domestic political pressures.
Stakeholder management and in-country engagement.
Misalignment between the Group, governments and their agencies.
Weak or damaged Licence to Operate.
BG Groups Political Risk and Government Relations Standard focuses assets and projects on the identification of the major political risks facing them.
Quarterly due diligence reviews, with monitoring of litigation, contingent liabilities and other exposures.
INSUFFICIENT EXPLORATION SUCCESS Risk description What impact the materialisation of this risk might have on the Group Insufficient addition of new resources and reserves to the Lack of reserves replacement, leading to decline in production levels.
portfolio to enable future economically viable production Potential inability to meet contractual supply obligations and the and to fuel production growth.
associated costs of making good such shortfalls.
Why this risk might materialise How the Group mitigates this risk Limited and challenging opportunities to obtain new Robust technical and commercial opportunity screening processes, resources economically in a low-price environment.
overseen by our Exploration & Appraisal Committee.
Global New Ventures team maintains focused approach to Execution failures, for example drilling or well results.
acreage acquisition via licence rounds, farm-ins and inorganic Failure to meet licence commitments.
Well planning and risk assessment processes.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT | PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED 37 PROJECT DECISION AND DELIVERY Risk description What impact the materialisation of this risk might have on the Group Poor decision making regarding project selection.
Projects Inability to achieve sustainable growth and reserves replacement.
may be sanctioned based on incorrect assumptions or Production and associated revenue shortfall.
Maturation of discovered resources Cost overrun.
may not optimise value, due to inappropriate concept selection Inability to meet contractual supply obligations.
Capital development projects may be Opportunity costs as the Group may be unable to pursue delivered late, over budget or with sub-standard levels of more valuable opportunities.
Why this risk might materialise How the Group mitigates this risk Failure to articulate and apply objective risk and value screening Capital Investment Process and Value Assurance Framework.
Front-end loading and decision risk management processes.
Focus on delivery objectives may limit front-end analysis.
Strategic planning, business planning and forecasting processes.
Insufficient early-stage technical assurance and risk analysis.
Aligned investment decision-making authorities and processes.
Overly optimistic project sanction case or business plan.
Strategic resourcing and strategic alliance programmes.
Poor contract strategy, contractor selection, or poor Contract evaluation, selection and management processes.
Asset-specific Licence to Operate strategies and Inadequate resourcing.
Poor management of change in the construction phase.
Design issues may cause delay or compromise operating reliability.
Licence to Operate or social performance issues may impact deliverability.
RESERVES AND RECOVERABILITY Risk description What impact the materialisation of this risk might have on the Group Reservoir potential may not be optimised and or reservoir Sub-optimal field development planning and design of facilities.
performance may fall below planned levels.
Adverse outcome Significant potential for loss in either production volumes compared on field unitisation decisions where BG Groups fields may extend to business plan or increases in overall capital expenditure and outside the boundaries of concession or licensing areas.
Value erosion through over or under-design of facilities given field capacity.
Inability to deliver production and to achieve an adequate reserves replacement ratio.
Why this risk might materialise How the Group mitigates this risk Inherent reservoir uncertainty in oil and gas developments could lead Group Standards address subsurface risk by defining consistent todetrimental well and reservoir performance outcomes that may subsurface workflows and modelling processes, ensuring reservoir impactoil and gas production and ultimate recoverable volumes.
andwell surveillance and management processes.
Failure to consider the full range of potential development options The Groups Value Assurance Framework ensures a review and andselect the most suitable concept.
challenge via astage-gated assurance process.
Development plans are often based on limited sampling and testing Decision risk management analysis.
ofonly a small fraction of the total reservoir volume.
Subsurface uncertainty and project uncertainty related to cost and Independent review through Reserves Committee oversight.
feasibility might not be captured or reflected adequately in the Flexibility to source alternative third-party hydrocarbons to development plans used for investment proposals or business plans.
The cost benefit value case for doing more appraisal work may not always be clear, creating potential for insufficient field appraisal prior to decisions to commit investment.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT | PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED 38 ACCESS TO CAPITAL AND LIQUIDITY Risk description What impact the materialisation of this risk might have on the Group Inability to deliver business and growth objectives, or to Reduced loss of access to capital.
continue as a long-term viable business, by effectively meeting Increased Group funding financing costs and deterioration in terms.
the Groups funding requirements, and managing liquidity Increased requirement for cash collateral and guarantees.
Increases in capital requirements could result in a failure to meet businessandfinancial performance expectations.
Deterioration in economics and or forfeiture of value-accretive .
The Groups financing costs may be adversely affected by interest rate volatility.
Why this risk might materialise How the Group mitigates this risk Business volatility or business performance falls below expectations.
Business planning, forecasting, performance management and cash flow Change in the macroeconomic environment for example, commodity forecasting processes.
Flexible funding plans, including access to a minimum level of committed Change in the Groups capital allocation and distribution policy.
borrowing facilities, held with a diversified group of financial institutions Variations in planned portfolio rationalisation or acquisition costs.
Insufficient flexibility in short-term liquidity.
Limits placed on the amount of borrowings thatmature within A significant deterioration in the Groups credit rating or its ability any specific period.
Surplus funds are invested primarily in short-term, highly liquid Financial assets may not be readily converted to cash without loss investments that are readily convertible to cash.
The Groups Interest Rate Risk Management policy requires that substantially all borrowings are floating rate.
Exceptions to this policy require approval from the Finance Committee.
To take advantage of the current low interest rate environment, a substantial proportion of the Groups debt is currently held under fixed rate arrangements.
HUMAN RESOURCES CAPACITY AND CAPABILITY Risk description What impact the materialisation of this risk might have on the Group BG Group may not have enough people available with the right skills Compromised ability of the Group to deliver its plans and strategy.
andexperience, in the right parts of the organisation at the right time, Limit on the Groups ability to exploit opportunities or realise the andwith the right culture and behaviours, to enable delivery of value ofprojects.
Impairment of the Groups future ability to attract and retain the best talent.
Why this risk might materialise How the Group mitigates this risk Failure to attract, recruit, retain, motivate, develop or train employees.
Business plan process and alignment of resourcing model.
Misalignment of resource strategies with Group strategy and plans.
Competitive reward and incentivisation packages.
Talent identification and related management development programmes.
Outsourcing of non-core skills and activities.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT | PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED 39 PORTFOLIO CONCENTRATION Risk description What impact the materialisation of this risk might have on the Group Over-concentration or inappropriate balance of the Groups Supply risk, especially from Brazil and Australia.
portfolio such that disruption in one asset or revenue stream Inability to meet supply contracts from Group production, in the Groups portfolio may have a disproportionate impact requiring backfill of supply from the open market.
Decline in demand for our products in key markets exposes us to the risk of unsold product and further downside price risk.
BG Group fails to deliver its business plan and stated objectives, eroding shareholder value.
Why this risk might materialise How the Group mitigates this risk Outcome of Group decision on: mergers, acquisitions and disposals: The Groups Value Assurance Framework stage-gate process new country entry: commercial sales long-term contracts: or and Capital Investment Process provide opportunities to identify, opportunity selection, project selection and sanction.
discuss and take into consideration, concentration risk.
Executive management and Board review and approval processes.
Changes in external environment: Strategy setting and strategic business planning process, including Political instability: the Board Planning Conference, provide opportunity to set guidelines Partner instability: around the make-up of the Group portfolio.
Demand for Group products: Portfolio management: reduce overexposure by divestment Inability to divest or sell down assets at an appropriate value: or investment.
Sudden move by a competitor: or Transformative technological breakthrough in the industry.
REGULATION, LEGISLATION, LITIGATION ANDCOMPLIANCE Risk description What impact the materialisation of this risk might have on the Group Contractual disputes and litigation, or breach of applicable laws Investigations, regulatory censure, fines or penalties.
and regulations, including those relating to anti-bribery and Litigation from industry partner, contractor or sovereign entity corruption by an employee, an associated party or someone acting see note 22 E to the Financial statements for details of current, on the Groupsbehalf.
Loss of Licence to Operate.
Penalties, debarment from award or loss of government contracts or licences, and the curtailment, cessation or delay of projects.
Decommissioning obligations or liabilities greater than expected.
Why this risk might materialise How the Group mitigates this risk Legal risks not sufficiently identified in business planning Regulatory compliance systems, and legal and regulatory or risk processes.
Failure to anticipate changes in regulation.
Internal education and training on legal and regulatory matters.
Ambiguity in interpretation of law or regulation.
Anti-bribery and corruption compliance programme, including Failure to follow legal advice or guidance.
training, policies and procedures, risk assessments and Instances of fraud and corruption.
Incomplete, ineffective or unenforceable documentation.
Independent reporting lines within the Legal function for all Failure by partners or the Group to maintain effective Group lawyers.
Legal Standards adopted across the Group.
Quarterly due diligence exercise to identify legal issues of concern.
Legal function participation in Group business planning, forecasting and risk processes.
Independent Speak Up reporting system for any concerns.
Advice from external legal counsel, including law firm panel arrangements.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT | PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED 40 IT, CYBER SECURITY AND RESILIENCE Risk description What impact the materialisation of this risk might have on the Group Failure or interruption of business-critical IT systems or digital Classified data could be unavailable or exposed to unauthorised parties.
infrastructure including failure of systems in the production Breach of the Data Protection Act or other regulations, resulting control environment.
Compromise of, or attack on, Group in regulatory censure and penalties.
Reputational impact to strategic relationships.
Non-compliance with legal or contractual requirements.
Disruption of production or production reporting processes.
Why this risk might materialise How the Group mitigates this risk State-sponsored industrial espionage.
Mandatory information security e-learning and other awareness Social engineering attacks such as targeted phishing emails.
Malicious software infections, including computer viruses, Design and implementation of standards and policies, for example, Trojans or ransomware.
Information Security Standard, Acceptable Use Standard, Information Insufficient technical security controls.
Management Standard, Data & Control Architecture for Automation BG Group employees or third parties failure to comply DCAA Standard.
with BG Group security rules.
Regular system maintenance and monitoring.
Hard disk encryption and security monitoring.
Firewalls, virus protection, access control procedures.
Security risk assessments for IT projects.
CREDIT Risk description What impact the materialisation of this risk might have on the Group BG Groups counterparties including sovereign entities and A credit loss may be incurred, possibly in the form of: other entities on whom the Group depends directly or indirectly Payment loss: may be unable to meet their financial or performance obligations.
Mark-to-market loss: or Performance issue: schedule delay and possible increased costs.
Group liquidity may be impacted, for example if a bank fails.
Delayed, or only partial recovery of, due receivables adverse impact on cash flow.
Why this risk might materialise How the Group mitigates this risk The Group may enter into agreements with third parties who are Credit risk framework developed and operational.
Credit support is considered where appropriate.
Previously suitable counterparties creditworthiness declines due to Credit limits are applied to counterparties under relevant credit changed circumstances, particularly in a low oil price environment.
Internal non-compliance with required process.
Credit due diligence procedures and Standards are in place Macroeconomic developments may reduce counterparties and operational.
creditworthiness contagion and correlation risk, for example, Monitoring of credit exposures and overdue payments.
MACROECONOMIC AND GEO-POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS Risk description What impact the materialisation of this risk might have on the Group The Group may not foresee or adapt to changes or disruptions Failure to meet Group business plans and externally stated expectations.
in the external environment, including geo-political or Long-term value erosion.
The Groups fundamental long-term business model may be threatened.
Why this risk might materialise How the Group mitigates this risk Insufficient connections and network connectivity to stay abreast Business planning and strategic planning processes.
of developments in geo-politics, the macroeconomy, energy markets Quarterly external trends analysis and competitor monitoring.
Analysis of the macroeconomy and energy markets.
Analysis of political trends and risks in Licence to Operate strategies.
Not having employees with sufficient skills or insight.
Failure to act upon known or identified external changes Membership of industry and professional bodies.
and changes due to internal decision-making processes, Building and maintaining a flexible and balanced portfolio.
communication flows, or mis-interpretation of the information or trends.
Over-focus on short-term deliverables or internal issues.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT | PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED 41 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Risk description What impact the materialisation of this risk might have on the Group Climate change may fundamentally alter business conditions Lower demand for Group product and lower prices.
and have a negative effect on demand for hydrocarbons.
Regulations altering hydrocarbon production economics.
Release, emission or discharge to the natural environment Increased cost of operations.
beyond agreed or acceptable limits.
Potential threat to Licence to Operate in event of major environmental incident, with limitations on future access to resources in environmentally sensitive areas.
Clean up costs, fines and penalties.
Why this risk might materialise How the Group mitigates this risk Domestic or international pressure to address climate change.
Participation in industry and government bodies, including Changes to policies and initiatives, including climate change policy, collaborative initiatives to influence forward-looking climate change at national and or international level.
activities and contribute to the climate change debate, in line with Major operational incident or accident, or breach of asset or well the Groups Climate Change Public Position.
Note that in Brazil, the Groups oil spill exposure continues Design of, and compliance with, HSSE policy and environmental to grow as more oil is produced in the Santos Basin and shuttle standards based on best practice.
Operation of environmental management systems, independently certified to ISO14001.
Asset-level energy efficiency programmes and targets.
IMPORTANT NOTES In addition to the principal risks and uncertainties listed in this The Group maintains an insurance programme to provide RISK IDENTIFICATION AND ASSURANCE report, the Group may also be affected adversely by other risks some mitigation against significant losses, which, as is While BG Group has developed processes for identifying and as yet unforeseen or currently considered not to be material.
consistent with general industry practice, includes limited managing risk, these processes provide reasonable, rather than Shareholders should consider the principal risks and uncertainties cover for physical damage, removal of debris, control absolute, assurance and are designed to help manage, rather described in this section in conjunction with the Legal notice of wells, re-drill, sudden and accidental pollution, and than eliminate, risk.
It is not possible to be certain that such on the inside front cover.
Policies purchased processes will be successful in managing or mitigating these are subject to limits, deductibles and specific terms and INSURANCE risks effectively or at all, not least because not all of these risks conditions.
In addition, premium costs are subject to Some of the major risks involved in BG Group activities and uncertainties are within BG Groups control.
In particular, changes based on a companys loss experience, the overall cannot reasonably and economically be insured.
The transfer BG Group may be limited in its ability to impose risk loss experience of the insurance markets accessed and of risks to the insurance market may be affected and influenced management systems and processes and associated controls capacity constraints.
Insurance is, by its nature, contingent.
by constraints on the availability of cover, market appetite in non-operated ventures.
Systems of risk management and As such, any particular insurance claim made might and capacity, pricing, and the decisions of regulatory internal control are therefore no guarantee that all risks have not result in a full recovery from insurers.
BG Group may incur significant losses from been identified, or will not materialise, or that associated different types of risks that are not covered by insurance.
damage or losses will not occur.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
