s s e s s A M o n i t o r y f i t Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 27 Risk Risk Management Framework Effectiveness of the Risk Function The Group has a Risk Management Framework that provides a The Risk and Compliance function is subject to regular review, robust and comprehensive approach for the identification and both in terms of resource and the appropriateness of the management of key risks facing the business.
skills that reside within the team.
In addition, the Board Risk Committee and Risk Management Committee are subject to The Framework helps in the assessment and management effectiveness reviews with improvements being identified and of current and future risks.
Principal Risk categories include implemented where required.
Strategic, Market, Operational and Regulatory & Conduct Risk.
The Risk Management Framework supports the ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process process, assisting in determining the capital requirements of the Group.
Risk universe Risk Appetite Risk appetite Risk appetite statements have been approved by the Board and provide the basis for the level of risk the Group is prepared to accept.
A suite of risk appetite metrics have been agreed and Policies activity is monitored against stated triggers and limits.
Risk Governance Management information Risk Governance Committees Capital Risk Risk The Board Risk Committee comprises Non-Executive Directors, Management Management with delegated responsibility from the Board to provide organisation methodologies oversight and challenge to the appropriateness of the risk management framework and the forward looking risks facing Embedded Risk Compliance risk practices culture the Group.
The Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and comprising members of the senior management of the Group, ensures that the key risks are identified, monitored, assessed and controlled.
The Committees receive reports of Risk Exposures and Events, as well as discussing any breaches of the agreed risk appetite.
Risk and Control Self Assessment RCSA The RCSA is the methodology that allows our business areas to identify and assess risks, and define and perform quarterly testing of controls.
Individual risk and control owners are Risk assigned with explicit responsibility for the ongoing monitoring Process and management of risks.
This is reinforced through minimum standards communicated via the Group Policy Framework.
Quarterly risk outlook workshops are undertaken to consider and assess potential changes to the risk profile of the Group.
The risk function undertakes a review and challenge of the RCSA and underlying evidence.
