28 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Principal Risks In common with other financial services organisations, our business model results in a number of inherent risks which are continuously monitored and managed.
The risks have been categorised as Strategic, Market, Operational and Regulatory & Conduct Risks.
The principal risks and their mitigants are noted below.
Risks Building investment credibility is dependent on the performance of the portfolio.
The ability to pay a steadily increasing dividend depends upon portfolio structure and income generation.
The Trust may borrow for investment purposes and borrowing facilities may not be renewed.
A lack of understanding of the Trust and its objectives could lead to a lack of demand and a widening of the discount to Net Asset Value.
Political and economic uncertainty generates risk to achieving strategic objectives.
Strategic Risks Mitigants We regularly report and monitor the performance of the Trust and the income derived from investments.
Borrowing levels and facilities require the prior approval of the Board.
The Trusts investment strategy has been widely communicated and meetings are also held with key institutional shareholders.
We assess the implications of political and economic uncertainty and establish internal working groups to monitor potential risks as required.
Risks The Trust currently invests primarily in equities and fixed income securities and its principal risks are therefore market related and include counterparty and market risk currency, interest rate and other price risk.
An explanation of these risks is included in Note 23 on pages 93 to 97.
Over The Counter OTC derivatives are used in the fixed income funds managed by Alliance Trust Investments both for efficient portfolio management and for investment purposes.
If investments fall in value, any borrowings will magnify the extent of this loss.
Market Risks Mitigants The Asset Allocation Committee meets at least quarterly to oversee the allocation of capital between and among the asset classes approved by the Board.
Exposure to market risk is assessed through stress and scenario testing of the Groups portfolios.
Compliance with investment risk parameters and policies is also monitored and regularly reported.
Counterparty concentration limits are in place for all financial instruments including bank deposits and debt levels are regularly monitored and reported.
The majority of the Trusts investments are in quoted equities that are readily realisable.
Risks Financial services organisations are exposed to operational risk, as a consequence of operating in a complex financial environment.
Key operational risks include the availability and reliability of our core systems, reliance on third party suppliers to deliver against service levels, processing failures, IT security issues including cyber risk and operational errors.
These include dealing errors, administration breaches, loss of key personnel and failure to manage and deliver change initiatives.
Mitigants Policies have been implemented to set direction on the management of all operational risks.
Business Continuity plans are maintained and tested annually.
Our supplier management framework controls Operational Risks risks from significant third party service providers.
The Group operates an anti-financial crime policy and controls to minimise exposure to fraud, money laundering and market abuse.
Our segregation of duties and oversight of controls mitigate against the risk of conflict of interest and process failures.
We manage projects rigorously under our Change Management Framework and robust IT security controls are in place.
The Group recognises the increasing risk of cyber attack against its services and data.
Our systems and controls are rigorously assessed on an ongoing basis to ensure they remain appropriate to mitigate against the changing risks faced and include deployment of industry standard tools and processes.
Training modules have been developed and risk objectives embedded to ensure delivery of appropriate corporate culture behaviours.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 29 Risks The Financial Services sector continues to experience significant regulatory change at national and international level.
During the year, Alliance Trust PLC has been approved by the FCA as a manager under the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Directive.
The profile of conduct risk is ever increasing including the continued strengthening and evolution of the regulatory framework.
Key aspects of conduct risks include the appropriateness of products and services, marketing campaigns and financial promotions, product design and development, complaint resolution, management of conflicts, and corporate culture.
Regulatory and Mitigants Conduct Risks The Group maintains a forward radar of forthcoming regulatory changes.
We have a Change Management Framework to help deliver regulatory change.
We have system based controls and monitoring systems to ensure compliance with relevant regulations.
Our responsibilities under AIFMD include the appointment of a Depositary who undertake verification activities and we monitor leverage against limits and gearing parameters which are agreed by the Board.
Customer outcome management information is reviewed at Board and Committee level, with actions taken to ensure the customer is at the heart of our business and includes an assessment of future business initiatives and risk outlook.
The Group operates a three tier line of defence.
The key attributes of each line of defence are shown below.
1st line 2nd line 3rd line of defence of defence of defence Business management are The Risk Management Internal Audit and the Board Risk responsible for the identification Committee, together with the and Audit Committees provide and assessment of risks, risk function, provides challenge independent and objective understanding the risk on the completeness and assurance on the robustness of return strategy and operating accuracy of risk assessments, risk the Risk Management Framework appropriate controls.
reporting and the adequacy of and the appropriateness and mitigation plans.
Key attributes Key attributes Key attributes Promote a strong risk culture and Overarching risk oversight across Independent assurance on the sustainable risk-return thinking.
robustness and application of the risk framework.
Promote a strong culture of Understand aggregated risk adhering to limits and managing positions and support in Assess the appropriateness and risk exposures in accordance with developing and advising on effectiveness of internal controls.
the approved risk appetite and the risk strategies.
The Board Risk Committee is associated policy requirements.
Objective oversight and chaired and attended by NonOwnership, responsibility and challenge to the business areas Executive Directors, providing accountability for identifying and internal control framework independent oversight of the the risks arising from business used in the first line.
key activities of the business.
The Risk Management The Internal Audit function Ongoing monitoring of inherent Committee is supported by provides assurance to the Audit and identified risks.
the monitoring, advisory and Committee.
challenging activities of the Risk Governance process includes The Audit Committee report to and Compliance function.
committees who will review and the Board on effectiveness of monitor risks efficiently internal control framework.
