ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Risk Management The execution of the Groups strategy is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties.
A key focus for the Board is to formally identify the main risks facing the Group and develop a robust and effective framework to ensure that the risks are both well understood and appropriate to achieve the stated corporate goals.
This process needs to address both risks arising from the internal operations of the Group and those arising from the business environment in which it operates.
It is possible that one or more of these identified risks could impact on the Group in a similar timeframe which may compound their effects.
As an early-stage investor in start-ups, the Group inherently operates in a high risk environment.
The overall aim of the risk management policy is to achieve an effective balancing of risk and reward, although ultimately no strategy can provide an absolute assurance against loss.
The major risks and uncertainties identified by the Board are set out below along with the consequences and mitigation strategy of each risk.
The science and technology being developed or commercialised by the Groups businesses may fail and or the Groups business may not be able to develop their intellectual property into commercially viable products or technologies.
There is also a risk that certain of the subsidiary businesses may fail or not succeed as anticipated, resulting in an impairment of the Groups value.
Impact: The failure of any of the Groups subsidiary businesses would impact the Groups value.
A failure of one of the major subsidiary businesses could also impact on the perception of the Group as a builder of high value businesses and possibly make additional fund raising at the Group or subsidiary level more difficult.
Mitigation: Before making any investment, extensive due diligence is carried out by the Group which covers all the major business risks including market size, strategy, adoption and intellectual property.
The initial seed round investment is typically quite small with incremental investment only being made on successful completion of milestones.
A capital efficient approach is pursued such that proof of concept has to be achieved before substantial capital is committed.
Members of the Groups management team who carry out the initial due diligence initially run the subsidiary in its incubation phase and subsequently move to becoming independent directors staying with the project to help ensure consistency of management.
The Groups point of contact will stay in regular contact with the senior management of the subsidiary business.
During incubation phase, we closely monitor milestone developments should a project fail to achieve sufficient progress, we terminate the investments.
The investment committee carries out face to face quarterly reviews with the management of each of the subsidiary businesses.
The shared services model provides significant administrative support to the subsidiary business whilst the budgetary and financial controls ensure good governance.
indb 38 25 04 2015 02:07 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Risk Management continued Within the Group there is a wealth of management expertise which can be called upon to support each of the subsidiary businesses where necessary.
In addition, the Group actively uses third party advisors and consultants, specific to the particular domain in which subsidiary business operates to assist on market strategy and direction.
The Group expects to continue to incur substantial expenditure in further research and development activities of its businesses.
There is no guarantee that the Group will become profitable and, even if it does so, it may be unable to sustain profitability.
Impact: The strategic aim of the business is to generate profits for its shareholders through the investment into IP-based start-ups, delivering value through capital gain.
As such profits will be generated on exits.
The timing and size of these potential inflows is uncertain and should exits not be forthcoming, or in the event that they are achieved but at values significantly less than the amount of capital invested, then it would be difficult to sustain the current levels of investment in the subsidiary businesses and continue to make new investments.
This will lead to reduced activity across the Group.
In turn this could make raising additional capital at the Group level difficult and it could ultimately lead to the failure of the Group as a whole.
Mitigation: The Group retains significant cash balances in order to support its internal cash flow requirements.
The Group has close relationships with a wide group of investors, including its shareholder base to ensure it can continue to access the capital markets.
Senior management continually seek to create additional strategic relationships for the Group.
If any of the Groups relationships with US universities and federal government institutions were to break down or be terminated or expire then the Group would lose any rights that it has to act as a private sector partner in the commercialisation of intellectual property being generated by such universities, other research intensive institutions or US federal research institutions.
Impact: Termination of certain of the Groups existing relationships would impact the quantity and potential quality of the Groups deal flow.
This may in turn prevent the Company from achieving its stated aim of completing five to ten new deals per year.
This could potentially have an adverse effect on the Groups long term prospects and performance.
Mitigation: The Group currently receives in excess of 2,000 items of intellectual property per year from its 68 partner institutions.
The risk of losing deal flow through the termination of relationships is greatly lessened by the wide portfolio and geographic spread of our partners.
The Group continues to add partners to its network.
The Group has recently hired a dedicated resource to manage and expand the partner network.
indb 39 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Risk Management continued 4.
A majority of the Groups intellectual property relates to technologies originated in the course of research conducted in, and initially funded by, US universities or other federally-funded research institutions.
Although the Group has been granted exclusive licences to use this intellectual property there are certain limitations inherent in these licences, for example as required by the Bayh-Dole Act of 1980.
Impact: There are certain circumstances where the US government have rights to utilise the underlying intellectual property without any economic benefit flowing back to the Group.
In the event this were to happen this could impact the financial return to the Group on its investment in the subsidiary business.
Mitigation: To the Boards knowledge, while these so called march in rights exist, the US government has never had cause to use them.
The Group seeks to develop dual use capabilities for the technology it licences and generally tends to avoid use cases directly applicable to government use.
This risk is also mitigated through employing experienced technology transfer experts supported by our legal team to assess risks that may arise out of this eventuality.
The Group currently has in place cooperative research and development agreements with certain US Department of Defence laboratories and federal funded government institutions.
Certain regulatory measures apply to these agreements which restrict the export of information and material that may be used for military or intelligence applications by a foreign person.
Impact: If the Group were to breach restrictions on the use of certain licenced technologies, particularly those derived from federally funded research facilities, this could materially impact upon the Groups ability to licence additional IP from these establishments.
In certain circumstances it may also lead to the termination of existing licences.
In the event that this were to happen this could materially affect a number of the Groups businesses and potentially harm the reputation and standing of the Group and cause the termination of certain important relationships with federally funded research institutions.
Mitigation: Prior to the commercialisation process the Groups management seeks to obtain all the necessary clearances from applicable regulatory bodies to ensure that the export of products based upon the licenced IP is strictly in accordance with government guidelines.
The Group employs a number of individuals with experience of working with various government agencies.
Senior management are fully cognisant with the regulations and sensitivities in relation to this issue and in particular with International Traffic in Arms Regulations ITAR which regulate the use of technologies for export, and has numerous mitigating actions available should issues arise.
The Group operates in complex and specialised business domains and requires highly qualified and experienced management to implement its strategy successfully.
All of the operations of the Group and its subsidiary businesses are located in the United States which is a highly competitive employment Page 40 of 152 c111026.
indb 40 25 04 2015 02:07 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Risk Management continued market.
There is a risk that the Group may lose key personnel, or fail to attract or retain new personnel.
Furthermore, given the relatively small size of the senior management at the corporate level, the Group is reliant on a small number of key individuals.
Impact: The loss of key personnel would have an adverse impact on the ability of the Group to continue to grow and may negatively affect the Groups competitive advantage.
Mitigation: The Board annually seeks external expertise to assess the competitiveness of the compensation packages of its senior management.
Senior management continually monitor and assess compensation levels to ensure the Group remains competitive in the employment market.
While staff turnover has historically been low and the Group continues to attract highly qualified individuals, management encourages development and inclusion through coaching and mentoring programmes.
A large proportion of the overall value of the Groups businesses may be concentrated in a small proportion of the Groups businesses.
If one or more of the intellectual property rights relevant to a valuable business was terminated this would have a material adverse impact on the overall value of the Groups businesses.
Impact: The termination of critical IP licences would materially impact the value of the subsidiary business and have a consequent effect on the value of the overall Group.
Mitigation: In each subsidiary the management is specifically directed to pursue a policy of generating and patenting additional intellectual property to both provide additional protection and create direct IP ownership for the subsidiary business.
Where possible the Group seeks to negotiate intellectual property ownership rights in any research and development agreement it enters into with a network partner, such that the Group becomes a part owner of the underlying IP.
The Group has a diversified portfolio of subsidiary businesses.
The value of any one of its subsidiaries relative to the aggregate value of the Group is closely monitored to ensure that the concentration risk of any on subsidiary is not disproportionate.
indb 41 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Risk Management continued 8.
Clinical studies and other tests to assess the commercial viability of the product are typically expensive, complex and time-consuming, and have uncertain outcomes.
If the Company fails to complete or experiences delays in completing tests for any of its product candidates, it may not be able to obtain regulatory approval or commercialise its product candidates on a timely basis, or at all.
Impact: Significant delays in any of the clinical studies to support the appropriate regulatory approvals could significantly impact the amount of capital required for the subsidiary business to become fully sustainable on a cash flow basis.
A critical failure in any stage of a clinical testing programme would probably necessitate a termination of the project and a loss of the Groups investment.
Mitigation: The group has dedicated internal resource to establish and monitor each of the clinical programmes in order to try and maximise successful outcomes.
During the evaluation and due diligence phase prior to the initial investment focus is placed on an analysis of the risks of the clinical phase of development.
Prior to the launch of any clinical testing it will be normal for a dedicated management team and in certain cases an advisory team to include key opinion leaders KOLs to be hired, and experience with the management of clinical programmes would be a prerequisite qualification.
In the event of the outsourcing of these trials, care and attention is given to assure the quality of the Contract Research Organisation CRO vendors used to perform the work.
This Strategic Report has been approved by the Board of Directors.
ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD Mark Pritchard Chris Silva Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer 28 April 2015 Page 42 of 152 c111026.
