Our strategy Our five strategic priorities Our business model p. 24 Our strategy Our Vision, to be the global reference 1.
Profit-focused underwriting on a thorough understanding excellence point for quality in each of our markets, of customer needs provides a strategic focus and drives our operational performance.
Our strategic How we pursued these goals in 2014: priorities reflect the disciplines necessary We enhanced our ability to We took action to address to execute our strategy effectively.
deliver market-leading client weaknesses and invested service by: in future capability by: Creating three global Strategic Enhancing our management Our objective is to deliver long-term Business Units for Reinsurance, of binding authorities value to shareholders, with an average Marine & Aviation and Property Re-underwriting and cutting & Casualty back poor-performing cross-cycle return on equity of at least Improving claims management segments in our UK 15%, a growing dividend and long-term by creating a centrally commercial business managed claims team with a Creating an Amlin growth in earnings and net assets.
consistent claims philosophy Underwriting Faculty for Further developing synergies training and development between Leadenhall Capital of future underwriting leaders Partners and Amlins Further investment in 14.1% 27.0p reinsurance business catastrophe risk modelling to provide greater depth and pricing tools Return on equity Ordinary dividend per share of cover to clients Further development of our Developing an internal service technical pricing framework.
management framework to provide high-quality services 180% in areas such as finance, change management and Total shareholder return communications over five years Investment in a marketing function to further enhance our clients understanding Key performance indicators p. 28 Increasing our focus on strategic partnerships with brokers and major clients.
Risk management p. 30 Our strategic principles: Resources and relationships p. 38 Amlins 2014 reorganisation Our business is built on a strong reflects our commitment to underwriting culture and robust Underwriting management p. 48 delivering exceptional service controls, with profitable crossby being close to our clients cycle underwriting at its heart.
and working in partnership with We seek to maintain a balance Financial review p. 56 the brokers who serve them.
between catastrophe and non-catastrophe exposures, as well as a broad spread of risk by geography and class.
The For further information on our focus on underwriting profit, key performance indicators without reliance on investment returns, has underpinned Amlins go to page 28 performance and is even more important in the current low interest rate environment.
86% 89% Retention ratio Combined ratio Amlin plc 26 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Our five strategic priorities 3.
A culture and employment which optimises return for core businesses and practices that make Amlin the the risks we take geographic footprint place to work in our industry How we pursued these goals in 2014: We used our Internal Model We built upon our strong We developed our resources to create value by: franchises to access to support and grow a global Analysing options for our opportunities by: business by: outwards reinsurance Further strengthening our Upgrading change programme which generated top-tier reinsurance management and internal significant savings with minimal proposition by acquiring audit skills, and developing increase in retained risk an increased stake in new capabilities in business Purchasing increased Leadenhall Capital Partners partnering and marketing retrocession reinsurance Increasing geographical Recruiting a new Head of Talent and a new catastrophe bond diversity with offices opened Management and further at competitive terms.
in Miami, Hamburg and Dubai developing our Talent Consolidating partnerships with Management Programme We positioned Amlin for key brokers and using their Updating Amlins remuneration the future by: data more effectively to target structure, employee incentives Continuing to prepare for the opportunities and access and performance management implementation of Solvency II preferred business lines.
to align more closely with Investing in a new and strategic growth objectives improved investment risk We created a single global Enabling and incentivising management system.
brand by: greater mobility of talent Merging local and regional within the business Amlin identities into a Recruiting more graduates single brand and creating a structured Investing in developing global international training Amlin brand awareness programme through Formula E team Increasing focus on employee sponsorship and related engagement and internal marketing activities.
Our strategic principles: The delivery of shareholder value We believe that we can add Our ability to attract, develop and comes from actively seeking and significant value, over the retain talent is vital to the long-term accepting risk while managing insurance cycle, through a sustainability of the Group.
The that risk within acceptable bounds.
combination of organic growth retention of senior underwriters Amlins Internal Model, strong and carefully selected acquisitions.
underpins our culture and provides risk-management framework, Our goal is to maintain a diverse the foundation for the extension of informed use of catastrophe risk and balanced portfolio, which our underwriting business model models and culture of continuous reduces volatility and enhances into new markets and acquisitions.
improvement all contribute to capital efficiency.
As new markets We are investing more in talent achieving this goal.
Our high evolve, we need to be positioned management and developing our standards of risk management to share in their growth.
The people because we recognise that were recognised by Standard & reorganisation of our underwriting to deliver unrivalled service requires Poors when it upgraded Amlins into global business units will exceptional skills across all areas ERM rating to very strong in 2014. improve our ability to identify of the business.
and access profitable growth opportunities in both established and developing markets.
56% 5.5% 8.1% Claims ratio Growth in net tangible assets Senior underwriter turnover Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 27 Key performance indicators Shareholder returns Our business model p. 24 Our strategy p. 26 Return on equity Why is it important?
We believe ROE is a key driver % of share valuation.
We target a Key performance indicators cross-cycle average return on 14.1% equity of at least 15%.
This target ensures that we remain focused on Our strategy is centred on delivering underwriting discipline, effective long-term value to our shareholders.
capital management and optimising return for the risks that we take.
We measure this against a set of key performance indicators.
How we performed The lower ROE in 2014 reflects softening rates in certain business 14 14.1 We believe that high performance lines, higher frequency of small- 13 19.8 and medium-sized events, lower in a cyclical market requires a long-term reserve releases, a lower 12 17.4 perspective, discipline, and a commitment investment return, and increased 11 8.6 capital.
Amlins 10-year weighted to providing the highest levels of service average ROE of 17.4% remains 10 13.9 to our clients.
above our cross-cycle target and estimated cost of equity of 8.5%.
Risk management p. 30 Dividend per share Why is it important?
We believe that a commitment p to a steadily growing dividend Resources and relationships p. 38 imposes a healthy discipline on 27.0p management and is one of the most effective ways of delivering Underwriting management p. 48 value to shareholders.
Dividends also play a key role in capital management as a mechanism Financial review p. 56 for enhancing returns on equity.
How we performed 14 27.0 We increased our ordinary For further information on our 13 26.0 dividend by 3.8% to 27.0 pence performance go to the financial review per share and also declared 12 24.0 a special dividend of 15.0 pence on pages 56 to 61 11 23.0 per share whilst retaining a strong capital position.
10 23.0 Total shareholder return Why is it important?
Total shareholder return Five year % reflects the wealth we create for shareholders.
Our purpose 180% is to deliver good total shareholder return over the long term.
How we performed Amlins five-year total shareholder return remained strong at 180%.
14 180 Over the past 10 years 2005 13 171 2014 Amlin has generated cumulative profit after tax of 12 170 2,151.2 million.
11 124 10 205 Amlin plc 28 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Business performance Sustainability and continuity Combined ratio Why is it important?
Gross and net assets Why is it important?
The combined ratio is a Amlins strong capital position % m key metric for underwriting underpins our ability to attract performance.
The overall and retain quality business, 6,676m 89% combined ratio reflects support organic growth and Gross the diversity of our global fund longer term strategic business mix.
Growth in net 1,783m Net tangible assets per share adds How we performed value for shareholders.
The increase in the combined ratio from 86% to 89% reflects How we performed softening rates in certain Net tangible assets were boosted business lines, lower reserve by solid business performance 14 89 14 1,783 6,676 releases and poorer performance which comfortably covered the 13 86 13 1,679 6,573 in UK commercial business.
dividends paid in the year.
Retention ratio Why is it important?
Renewal rate movement is a leading Our consistently high retention % % indicator for the level of attritional ratio reflects the strength of claims ratios.
The diversity of our our relationships with clients 3.6 % 86% portfolio provides exposure to and the stability and quality of different pricing cycles, enabling our core underwriting portfolios.
us to reduce exposures where These attributes make Amlin pricing is inadequate and to take less vulnerable to competitive advantage of profitable growth pressures in soft market opportunities elsewhere.
conditions and support our cross-cycle combined ratio.
How we performed 14 3.6 14 86 The decline in pricing of Amlins How we performed 13 0.0 13 86 portfolio reflects weaker rates The consistent retention ratio in some key business lines, illustrates Amlins ability to retain 12 3.7 12 84 notably catastrophe reinsurance, desirable business in a more 11 1.1 11 82 mitigated by more stable rates competitive trading environment.
in other classes of business.
10 1.8 10 86 Investment return Why is it important?
Senior underwriter Why is it important?
Insurance companies total The experience and expertise % turnover % assets are a multiple of shareholder of our underwriters is crucial to equity and investment return is an Amlins underwriting culture and 2.7% 8.1% important contributor to net profit.
business model, with its proven Our investment management ability to deliver superior crossapproach is driven by investment cycle returns.
Developing and risk appetite and not target return.
retaining talent within the business is a strategic priority, reflected in How we performed our goal of making Amlin the place Our investment return was less to work in our industry.
14 2.7 14 8.1 than 2013s strong performance, 13 3.6 13 4.4 as equity markets performed less How we performed well in 2014.
The increase in turnover is mainly 12 4.1 12 2.5 due to the departure of two teams 11 0.9 11 2.7 from Amlins UK commercial business during the year.
10 4.0 10 3.7 Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 29 Risk management Our risk management framework and risk analysis capabilities support our ability to select and manage risk in pursuit of Amlins strategic objectives.
James Illingworth Chief Risk Officer Amlin plc 30 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Risk governance Our business model p. 24 Amlins business is focused on the selection, pricing and management of insurable risk in order to provide effective risk transfer for our clients.
Alongside the rigorous risk management associated with Our strategy p. 26 our core business, as described below, we also exercise careful risk governance to address the other risks and uncertainties we face as a company.
Our risk function oversees a framework for identifying Key performance indicators p. 28 potential events or circumstances which may be relevant to the achievement of the Groups objectives.
By proactively addressing risks and opportunities, we are better able to create value for our stakeholders.
Risk management Attitude to strategic risk The Amlin Board recognises that risk management is a complex Amlins risk management framework is a process and should reflect both the need to take risk and to avoid core element of our operating model.
Our risk governance processes focus on all critical risk areas including underwriting risk, the management of which is recognises that, as an insurer, we actively necessary to achieve our strategic goals.
We have illustrated our seek and accept risk while managing attitude to risk for these areas, as well as those directly associated with underwriting risk, in the Principal Risks & Uncertainties table risks within acceptable limits and on pages 34 to 37 using three categories: providing clarity surrounding risk to our Positive: Willing to consider opportunities offering acceptable business stakeholders.
It provides a framework for rewards, based on a comprehensive understanding of the inherent risks.
analysing risks, assessing them in terms For example, we actively seek underwriting risk as our core business activity.
In addition, we also see market risk as offering opportunities of likelihood and magnitude of impact, to enhance returns through a dynamic approach to asset management.
determining our strategy for responding Balanced: Preference for a low or moderate degree of residual risk, to each risk, establishing clear governance with an acceptable level of reward for the risk taken.
For example, and ownership and monitoring progress credit risk is inherent in our transactions with brokers and our reinsurers, but this is necessary to obtain the benefits to the and new developments.
Risk categories business of broker distribution and risk transfer respectively.
are clearly identified, risk management Negative: Avoidance or minimisation of risk and uncertainty through standards are documented and risk control and mitigation is the key objective.
For example, operational tolerances are set for each category.
and regulatory risk are undesirable but cannot be wholly avoided.
The Groups risk appetites and attitude to key strategic risks are set by Resources and relationships p. 38 the Amlin Board.
The risk appetites articulate the risk-bearing desires and capacity of the Group, and are supported by risk tolerance limits, which are measures put in place to ensure risk appetites are limited.
These tolerances are then allocated among the Groups operating Underwriting management p. 48 entities, with each entity reporting its status against tolerance on a quarterly basis.
Financial review p. 56 Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 31 y f i t n e d I R e p o r t w e i Risk management continued Risk management framework The Risk Management Framework Amlins risk management framework is a core element of our operating model.
It recognises that, as an insurer, we actively seek and accept risk while managing it within acceptable limits and providing clarity to our Risk policy stakeholders.
It provides a framework for analysing risks, assessing them and strategy in terms of likelihood and magnitude of impact, determining our strategy for responding to each risk, establishing clear governance and ownership Framework and monitoring progress and new developments.
Risk categories are clearly Risk standards foundations identified, risk management standards are documented and risk tolerances are set for each category.
Risk appetite and tolerance Amlin operates risk management controls through the three lines of defence model.
In the first line all staff are expected to be risk aware and exercise controls over their activities so that levels of risk are understood and managed Accountability Governance Communication appropriately.
The second line of defence is Amlins dedicated risk function and ownership which is responsible for the design and co-ordination of risk framework activity.
The compliance function is responsible for a similar second line role in relation to regulatory risk.
The third line of defence is Amlins internal audit function.
This is responsible for the review of both the first and second lines of defence and specifically for the review and validation of the risk evaluation and effectiveness of controls set out in Amlins risk register.
A core element of our framework is the review and reporting cycle, which requires that risk owners in the business confirm that risks are being Risk managed within agreed tolerances and that appropriate actions are being Assessment taken to address control deficiencies.
These assessments are reviewed Process by the risk function and supported by periodic health checks on the Group-wide operation of the risk management framework, after which any areas of concern are reported to Executive Management and, as appropriate, to the Board through its Risk & Solvency Committee.
This risk assessment process is combined with output from Amlins Internal Model in the Own Risk & Solvency Assessment ORSA.
The ORSA report contains information covering: Infrastructure Challenge Forward-looking solvency and modelled performance expectations, including earnings volatility Status of key risks for all categories against tolerances set by the Board Status of key controls used to manage risk Emerging risks which may impact the business over a longer period.
This underwriting risk module is combined with similar modules built for the other key categories of risk, such as reserving, market including investment The ORSA is a key business process required under Solvency II, creating risk, credit and operational risk so that a complete picture of Amlins a coordinated view of risk and solvency for management and the Board.
potential economic performance is available on a probabilistic basis.
Quarterly risk reports consolidate analytical data on risk exposures for each regulated entity and the Group as a whole.
The status of each key Over the years the model has been the subject of considerable internal and risk is analysed relative to approved tolerances using both deterministic external scrutiny and validation, which has served to develop and improve and stochastic modelling techniques.
its representation of the business.
This model is proving to be of significant assistance in many areas of our business, as explained below.
The Amlin Board and Risk & Solvency Committee, together with the regulated entity boards and their risk committees, all receive quarterly Capital requirements risk reports.
Our Internal Model has a range of important uses for capital setting.
Under the current Prudential Regulation Authority PRA Individual Capital The information provided ensures that risk and capital implications are Assessment requirements and, going forward under Solvency II, the model recognised in the decision-making process and that appropriate control informs capital adequacy figures through the production of a 1:200 year plans are developed to support the successful delivery of business Value at Risk VaR measure.
Risk management Development of the Internal Model and model use The model is used to formulate tolerances and measure the risk levels for Under the requirements of Solvency II, insurers can calculate solvency a number of key risk control areas including reserving risk, catastrophe risk requirements using an Internal Model.
Amlin has been developing an and reinsurance credit risk.
Internal Model of the business, which uses dynamic financial analysis, for more than 10 years.
This model aims to capture all of the potential Business planning income and risks of the business for each operating unit and for Amlin as Output includes class dashboards which provide an assessment of forecast a whole.
Each class of business is modelled using exposure information mean gross and net loss ratios and a full distribution of possible outcomes, and historical data on premiums and claims combined with external enabling a view of volatility around the mean expected result.
This assists in modelling to take account of attritional, large and catastrophe claims business planning validation on a class of business and whole account basis.
From this work a large number of simulated results can be produced giving a distribution of possible outcomes for underwriting.
Pricing Using Amlins view of steady state capital requirements, and the class The classes of business are combined to provide a whole account result and reserving analysis from the model, target loss ratios are produced distribution which is adjusted for reinsurance costs and recoveries.
for underwriters to use as a benchmark for the achievement of a 15% return on equity.
Amlin plc 32 Annual Report 2014 v e R A s s e s s d n o p s e R Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Reserving The current level of modelled losses for significant RDS events is set out The Internal Model produces probabilistic outcomes of levels of claims in the table below.
The maximum tolerances increased for 2014 to take reserves, which enable the measurement of reserve margins required account of higher net asset values and an increase in expected profit.
Most to meet the Group tolerance for reserve risk.
of the increase in risk tolerance and the accompanying profit increase was utilised and derived from the retention of exposure previously reinsured into Reinsurance purchasing Amlins Lloyds Special Purpose Syndicate 6106, which had underwritten The impact of different proposed reinsurance structures and costs are a 10% quota share of Amlins excess of loss reinsurance account until modelled to consider the effect on potential profit and tail risk.
This increase in exposure was included in the broader assists in the optimisation of the reinsurance programme to achieve coverage provided by the retrocession programme in 2014.
In addition, the most effective balance of expenditure and potential recovery.
it was also significantly offset by additional retained premium and modelled profit arising from the internalisation of certain low-level non-catastrophe Risk commentary and analysis reinsurance coverage and a significant reduction in the overall reinsurance As described above, Amlin considers and models its risks in the key expenditure.
These changes were supported by the Internal Model analysis categories of underwriting, reserving, market or investment, liquidity, as discussed above, ensuring that the equation between retained loss, credit and operational.
The underlying risks within these categories coverage and cost was optimised as fully as possible.
are all captured and assessed with their associated controls in our risk system, ARM.
We also consider strategic risk and longer-term emerging One of the factors considered in setting tolerances is the expected risk, which may not impact the business for several years.
profitability of our catastrophe excess of loss business and the Group as a whole.
With the lower inwards pricing of catastrophe risk and reduced The Internal Model has been constructed to model these principal risks expected gross margins in this business class we have taken the decision and their impact on capital requirements.
As market conditions and our to lower catastrophe tolerances for the time being as shown below.
exposures change, we are able to monitor the impact on capital and total Our ability to purchase an increased level of catastrophe retrocessional risk profile.
During 2014, market conditions for some of our underwriting reinsurance at a similar cost to 2014 has enabled this reduction whilst risk classes became more competitive.
This can be partially offset by more reducing the effect of lower gross margins on expected net profit.
favourable reinsurance terms, but we expect underwriters to respond to Underwriting action is also being taken on renewals to reduce exposure changing conditions, either by declining inadequately rated business or on accounts where the pricing is becoming inadequate.
moving exposure from one risk area or class to another.
Amlins principal aim is to manage the business so that there is a balance of risk categories We have also adopted a model change for 2015 which has increased the and exposures.
This diversification can serve the business well if one modelled loss for some scenarios, particularly for California earthquake.
class of business suffers from a series of losses, as losses will be offset 1 January 2015 1 January 2014 by profit arising from other, non-correlated classes of business.
However, Gross Net Gross Net as competition increases and margins reduce across a whole range of Selected realistic disaster loss loss Tolerance loss loss Tolerance classes, this becomes more difficult to achieve.
Furthermore, levels of scenarios m m m m m m investment return are not always sufficient to offset both expenses and North-East US underwriting losses.
In the current climate of growing competition for Windstorm 726 264 300 671 279 350 some areas of business and ongoing lower investment returns compared Florida Windstorm to historical norms, the management of the whole portfolio of risk Tampa 698 209 300 676 273 350 becomes more important.
Our risk strategy remains focused on producing California Earthquake underwriting profits and a sustainable investment return, while controlling San Francisco 650 271 300 444 163 350 credit, liquidity and operational risk to as low a level as possible without incurring unacceptable levels of expense.
California Earthquake Los Angeles 482 189 300 439 184 350 Catastrophe risk European Windstorm 844 139 300 747 266 350 As described in the Principal Risk & Uncertainties table on pages 34 to 37, Japan Earthquake 372 171 300 360 191 350 Amlin has a long-standing and defined appetite for catastrophe risk, which is New Zealand an important component of the groups profit and its risk capital requirements.
Earthquake 262 158 300 322 175 350 Appetite for catastrophe risk is determined by the following key elements: Note: These are selected scenarios.
There could be events leading to insured losses Acceptability of prevailing pricing of catastrophe business in order which exceed these figures.
2015 figures are not directly comparable to 2014 due to achieve target cross-cycle returns on risk adjusted capital to a change in use of stochastic model for the catastrophe reinsurance portfolio Ability to diversify exposure across catastrophe territories and The US earthquake 2014 figures have been revised to reflect an updated view of with profit generated from non-catastrophe business lines the catastrophe bond contribution and are therefore not comparable with 2015.
Availability and cost of outwards reinsurance Control and management activities, including accurate modelling Solvency II of perils.
During 2015 we anticipate finalising our preparation for the implementation of Solvency II.
This will include adoption of a fully While pricing has been in decline since mid-2013, our underwriters compliant and accepted Internal Model for calculation of capital maintained an appetite for this exposure during 2014, as rating levels for Syndicate 2001 and for the Group as a whole, under the Group remained sufficiently attractive to achieve target returns.
supervisory requirements of the PRA.
In all circumstances, catastrophe appetite and exposure is limited by The programme of work associated with model application is maximum tolerances approved by the Board.
These tolerances are significant, involving model build, governance, validation and testing.
calculated and maintained on a deterministic basis maximum modelled During 2014 we received a formal response from the PRA regarding losses for a given event or realistic disaster scenario RDS and on a their review of our Lloyds syndicate model and we intend to complete stochastic or probabilistic basis.
The stochastic measurements are carried our work in good time to meet the application timetable for Group out on a single occurrence and on an annual aggregate basis, using external model approval starting in May 2015.
Accompanying this aspect proprietary models blended with our own modelling.
This enables review of Solvency II compliance are detailed requirements for the risk of exposure to a single event or a modelled collection of events based management and governance of the business and significant changes on differing return periods.
The tolerances are set taking consideration to regulatory reporting.
All of these will be adopted by the Solvency II of the forecast profit of the business and a maximum acceptable loss as implementation deadline of 1 January 2016. a percentage of net assets.
These tolerances are allocated to underwriting units and legal entities as maximum loss limits, after retaining a safety margin at the Group level.
