| 30 304 4 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Shareholder information continued If our business does not perform well or if actual experience The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the versus management estimates used in valuing and amortising total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC and Acquired value of inevent and the severity of the event.
Most catastrophes are force business AVIF varies significantly, we may be restricted to small geographic areas: however, pandemics, required to accelerate the amortisation and or impair the hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may DAC and AVIF which could adversely affect the results of produce significant damage in larger areas, especially those that operations or financial condition.
Catastrophic events could also harm the We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and financial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the renewal business.
Those costs that vary with and are driven by probability of default on reinsurance recoveries and could also the production of new and renewal business are deferred and reduce our ability to write new business.
Furthermore, referred to as DAC.
The recovery of DAC is dependent upon the pandemics, natural disasters, terrorism and fires could disrupt future profitability of the related business.
The amount of future our operations and result in significant loss of property, key profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns personnel and information about our clients and our business if in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, our business continuity plans fail to cope with the scale or morbidity, persistency and expenses to administer the business.
Such events could adversely affect Of these factors, investment margins and general insurance our business, results of operations, corporate reputation and underwriting profit are most likely to impact the rate of financial condition for a substantial period of time.
The aforementioned factors enter Furthermore, market conditions beyond our control determine into managements estimates of gross profit or margins, which the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we generally are used to amortise such costs.
If the estimates of purchase.
Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional gross profit or margins were overstated, then the amortisation expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect amount is known and would result in a charge to income.
our ability to write future business.
Significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortisation of the DAC related to unit-linked Operational risks relating to Avivas business business, resulting in a charge to income.
Such adjustments All of our businesses are subject to operational risks, could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations including the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal and external processes, systems or financial condition.
and human error or from external events.
AVIF reflects the estimated present value of future profit Our business is dependent on processing a large number of that will emerge over the remaining life of certain in-force complex transactions across numerous and diverse products.
contracts in a life insurance company, acquired either directly or Furthermore, the long-term nature of the majority of our through the purchase of a subsidiary, and represents the portion business means that accurate records have to be maintained for of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right significant periods.
to receive future cash flows from the insurance and investment Our systems and processes on which we are dependent to contracts in-force at the acquisition date.
AVIF is based on serve our customers are designed to identify appropriately and actuarially determined projections.
Actual experience may vary address the operational risks associated with our activities.
Revisions to estimates result in changes to However, they, together with the Friends Life Groups the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the equivalent systems and processes if the Proposed Acquisition is revisions are made and could result in impairment and a charge completed, may nonetheless fail due to IT malfunctions, human to income.
Where AVIF is amortised, an acceleration of the error, intentional disruption or hacking of IT systems by third amortisation of AVIF would occur if the estimates of gross profit parties, business interruptions, non-performance by third parties or margins were overstated in the period in which the actual or other external events.
This could disrupt business operations experience is known and would result in a charge to net resulting in material reputational damage and the loss of income.
Such adjustments could have an adverse effect on our customers, and have a consequent material adverse effect on results of operations or financial condition.
our results of operations and financial condition.
Although we Catastrophic events, which are often unpredictable by have taken steps to upgrade systems and processes to reduce nature, could result in material losses and abruptly and these operational risks, we cannot anticipate the details or significantly interrupt our business activities.
timing of all possible operational and systems failures which Our business is exposed to volatile natural and man-made may adversely impact our business, nor, if the Proposed disasters such as pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms, Acquisition is completed, can we anticipate the possible earthquakes, terrorism, riots, fires and explosions.
Such events operational and systems failures that may arise in the context of may not only affect insurance claims, but could also adversely the Friends Life Groups equivalent systems and processes, impact investment markets and cause declines in the value of including those which are outsourced by the Friends Life Group.
Over the past several years, changing Our businesses are exposed to risk from potential nonweather patterns and climatic conditions have added to the compliance with policies, employee misconduct or negligence unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters in certain and fraud, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as to reputational or financial harm.
In recent years, a number of future trends and exposure.
multinational financial institutions have suffered material losses Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of due to the actions of rogue traders or other employees.
It is catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the causes a large number of deaths.
The effectiveness of external precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not parties, including governmental and non-governmental always be effective.
organisations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us.
Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 3 305 05 Our risk management methods may leave us exposed to There is a risk that customer data could be lost or misused.
unidentified, unanticipated or incorrectly quantified risks, As a financial services group, we maintain significant amounts which could lead to material losses or material increases in of sensitive customer data.
Despite the controls put in place, liabilities.
In particular, our risk mitigation strategies may there remains a risk that this data could be lost and or misused prove less effective than anticipated, including in relation to as a result of an intentional or unintentional act by parties our reinsurance arrangements.
internal or external to us.
This could result in fines, the need to We have in place risk management policies, procedures and compensate customers, the cost of remediation and a negative assessment methods to identify, assess and control risks to avoid impact on our reputation with the consequential impact on or limit potential losses or liabilities.
However, such policies, sales volumes, persistency levels, and third party managed procedures and assessment methods may not be fully effective funds, and hence adversely impact our results of operations.
in identifying and mitigating the risk exposure of such businesses in all market environments or against all types of risk.
We operate in several markets through arrangements with third parties, and this may expose us to additional risks.
Unanticipated or incorrectly quantified risk exposures and or Our ability to exercise management control over our partnership inadequate or incorrect responses to these risk exposures could operations, our joint ventures and our investment in them result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of depends on the terms of the legal agreements.
In particular, the operations and or financial condition.
relationships depend on the allocation of control among, and We employ a range of risk mitigation strategies including continued co-operation between, the participants.
the use of equity, interest rate and credit derivatives and We may also face financial or other exposure in the event reinsurance arrangements to reduce market, credit and that any of our partners fail to meet their obligations under the insurance risk.
A range of different modelling approaches are agreement or encounter financial difficulty.
Partnership used to derive and evaluate the strategies adopted.
The agreements may also be terminated on certain dates or subject breakdown of the assumptions used in these modelling to certain conditions and could be subject to renewal on less approaches, which may occur during market dislocations, could favourable terms.
In addition, a significant proportion of our cause these risk mitigation strategies to be less effective than product distribution, such as bancassurance, is carried out anticipated and thereby adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
through arrangements with third parties not controlled by us and is dependent upon the continuation of these relationships.
We currently use the reinsurance markets primarily to limit our risk, to support growth and to manage our capital more For example, DBS Bank is a significant distribution partner of the Group in Hong Kong and Singapore and the current agreement efficiently.
We are exposed to concentrations of risk with individual reinsurers due to the nature of the reinsurance market with DBS Bank, which is subject to renewal in 2015, is not guaranteed to be renewed.
A temporary or permanent and the restricted range of reinsurers that have acceptable credit ratings.
We operate a policy to manage our reinsurance disruption to these distribution arrangements could affect our financial condition.
Some of these arrangements require our counterparty exposures, by limiting the reinsurers that may be used and applying strict limits to each reinsurer.
Reinsurance third-party partners to participate in and provide capital to our joint venture, associate and subsidiary undertakings.
Our exposures are aggregated with other exposures to ensure that the overall counterparty risk is within appetite.
Our asset and partners may change their strategic priorities or encounter financial difficulties preventing them from providing the liability management and risk functions have an active monitoring role with escalation to the Chief Financial Officer, necessary capital to promote future growth.
In addition, we outsource certain customer service, the Groups asset liability committee and the Boards risk committee as appropriate.
Our largest reinsurance counterparty technology and legacy policy administration functions to third parties and may do so increasingly in the future.
If we do not is BlackRock Life Ltd including subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2014, the reinsurance asset recoverable, including debtor effectively develop, implement and maintain our outsourcing strategy, third-party providers do not perform as anticipated or balances, from BlackRock Life Ltd was 2,048 million.
Reductions in risk appetite among reinsurers may result in we experience technological or other problems with a transition to or between such providers, we may not realise the full extent changes in price or willingness to reinsure certain risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations of productivity improvements or administration and cost efficiencies and, as a result, may experience operational or financial condition.
If reinsurers do not offer to renew their products and services, in whole or in part, for any reason, there difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business.
In particular, failings by our outsource partners to perform outsourced is a risk that we may be unable to procure replacement cover for any reinsurance agreements terminated at rates equivalent functions, or to perform them to the required standards, may adversely affect our reputation and lead to the loss of customers to those of the terminated cover, or at all, and we may be exposed to un-reinsured losses during any interim period and operating profit or to regulatory fines.
Our fund management operation depends on a number of between termination of the existing agreements and the start of any replacement cover.
key vendors, for various fund administration, accounting, valuations, custody and transfer agent roles and other While reinsurance makes the assuming reinsurer liable to the Group to the extent of the risk ceded, it does not discharge us operational needs.
The failure or inability to diversify sources for key services or the failure of any key vendors to fulfil their from our primary obligation to pay under an insurance policy for losses incurred.
We are therefore subject to credit risk with obligations could lead to operational issues for us and in certain products, which could result in financial losses for us and our respect to our current and future reinsurers.
The insolvency of any reinsurers or their inability or refusal to pay claims under the clients.
terms of any of their agreements with us could therefore have a The failure to attract or retain the necessary personnel could material adverse effect on the Group.
Collectability of have a material adverse effect on our results and or financial reinsurance is largely a function of the solvency of reinsurers.
Significant reinsurance purchases are reviewed annually by us to As a global financial services organisation with a decentralised verify that the levels of protection being bought reflect any management structure, we rely to a considerable extent on the developments in exposure and our risk appetite.
quality of local management in the countries in which we operate.
The success of our operations is dependent, among other things, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified | 30 306 6 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Shareholder information continued professional employees.
Competition for such key employees is We value our fair value securities using designated intense.
Our ability to attract and retain key employees is methodologies, estimations and assumptions.
These securities, dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market which are reported at fair value on the consolidated statement conditions, working environment and compensation packages of financial position, represent the majority of our total cash and offered by companies competing for the same talent.
We have categorised the measurement basis for assets carried at fair value into a fair value hierarchy in There are inherent funding risks associated with our accordance with the valuation inputs and consistent with participation in defined benefit staff pension schemes.
The fair value hierarchy gives We operate both defined benefit and defined contribution staff the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for pension schemes.
In the UK, we operate two main pension identical assets or liabilities Level 1 : the middle priority to fair schemes: the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme ASPS and the RAC values other than quoted prices based on observable market 2003 Pension Scheme.
The defined benefit section of the ASPS information Level 2 : and the lowest priority to unobservable was closed to new members in 2002 other than on an inputs that reflect the assumptions that we consider market exceptional basis, and closed to future accruals for all existing participants would normally use Level 3.
The majority of our members from 1 April 2011.
The defined benefit section of the financial assets are valued based on quoted market information RAC 2003 Pension Scheme was also closed to new members Level 1 or observable market data Level 2.
At 31 December and closed to future accrual in April 2011.
2014, 17% of total financial investments, loans and investment Closure of the defined benefit schemes removes some of the properties at fair value were classified as Level 3, amounting to volatility associated with additional future accrual for active 40,459 million.
Where estimates were used for inputs to Level members.
3 fair values, these were based on a combination of There are still inherent funding risks associated with the independent third-party evidence and internally developed defined benefit schemes.
Events could result in a material models, intended to be calibrated to market observable data reduction in the funding position of such schemes and may where possible.
result in a materially increased deficit between the pension An asset or liabilitys classification within the fair value schemes assets and liabilities.
The factors that affect the hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to our schemes position include: poor performance of pension fund valuation.
investments: greater life expectancy than assumed: adverse Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts paid to changes in interest rates or inflation or discount rates: and other acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of events occurring that increase the costs of past service benefits their net assets at the date of acquisition.
We test goodwill and over the amounts predicted in the actuarial assumptions.
In the intangible assets with indefinite useful lives at least annually for short term, the funding position is inherently volatile due to impairment or when circumstances or events indicate there may movements in the market value of assets.
Where a funding be uncertainty over this value.
We test intangibles with finite deficit or surplus arises, the position will be discussed with the lives when circumstances or events indicate there may be scheme trustees to agree appropriate actions.
This may include uncertainty over this value.
For impairment testing, goodwill and a plan to fund the deficit over a period of years.
Any surplus or intangibles have been allocated to cash-generating unit by deficit in the defined benefit pension scheme will affect geographical reporting unit and business segment.
shareholders equity, although the IFRS position may diverge The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the from the scheme funding position.
Goodwill, negative unallocated The UK pension schemes are subject to statutory divisible surplus and indefinite life intangibles are written down requirements with regards to funding and other matters relating for impairment where the recoverable amount is insufficient to to the administration of the schemes.
Compliance with these support our carrying value.
Such write downs could have a requirements is subject to regular review.
A determination that material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial we have failed to comply with applicable regulations could have condition.
an adverse impact on our results of operations or our relationship with current and potential contributors and Systems errors or regulatory changes may affect the employees, and adverse publicity.
calculation of unit prices or deduction of charges for unitlinked products which may require us to compensate The determination of the amount of allowances and customers retrospectively.
impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective.
A significant proportion of our product sales are unit-linked Our process for valuing investments may include contracts, where product benefit are linked to the prices of methodologies, estimations and assumptions which require underlying unit funds.
While comprehensive controls are in judgement and could result in changes to investment place, there is a risk of error in the calculation of the prices of valuations.
If our business does not perform well, we may be these funds due to human error in data entry, IT-related issues required to recognise an impairment of our goodwill or or other causes.
Additionally, it is possible that policy charges intangibles with indefinite and finite useful lives, which could which are deducted from these contracts are taken incorrectly, adversely affect our results of operations or financial or the methodology is subsequently challenged by policyholders condition.
or regulators and changed retrospectively.
Any of these can give The determination of the amount of allowances and rise to compensation payments to customers.
Controls are in impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our place to mitigate these risks, but errors could give rise to future periodic evaluation and assessment of known risks associated liabilities.
Payments due to errors or compensation may with the respective asset class.
Such evaluations and negatively impact our results of operations or financial assessments are revised as conditions change and new condition.
information becomes available and additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future.
If the Moves to simplify the operating structure and activities of carrying value of an investment is greater than the recoverable the Group increases the reliance placed on core businesses amount, the carrying value is reduced through a charge to the and is subject to execution risk.
income statement in the period of impairment.
There can be no As part of our move to a more simplified structure, a number of assurance that management has accurately assessed the level of business disposals and operational restructures have taken impairments taken and allowances reflected in our financial place, and may continue to occur in the future.
