| 2 276 76 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Risk and capital management absorbency capital requirements, which are still under Risk management objectives development, to be applied from January 2019, if the Group As a global insurance group, risk management is at the heart of remains a G-SII.
what we do and is the source of value creation as well as a vital In April 2014 the implementation date of Solvency II was form of control.
It is an integral part of maintaining financial finally confirmed in law as 1 January 2016, with the formal stability for our customers, shareholders and other stakeholders.
approval of the Omnibus II amendments.
On-going work on the Our sustainability and financial strength are underpinned by Level 2 Delegated Acts, Implementing Technical Standards an effective risk management process which helps us identify and Supervisory Guidelines, to be finalised in 2015, have major risks to which we may be exposed, establish appropriate reduced the level of uncertainty over the final capital impact on controls and take mitigating actions for the benefit of our the Group.
However, some uncertainty remains including over customers and investors.
The Groups risk strategy is to invest its the outcome of the Groups application to use an internal available capital to optimise the balance between return and risk model to calculate its capital requirement.
whilst maintaining an appropriate level of economic i. e. riskbased capital and regulatory capital in accordance with our risk Risk profile appetite.
Consequently, our risk management objectives are to: The types of risk to which the Group is exposed have not Embed rigorous risk management throughout the business, changed significantly over the year and remain credit, market, based on setting clear risk appetites and staying within these: insurance, asset management, liquidity, operational and Allocate capital where it will make the highest returns on a reputational risks as described in note 58 of the IFRS financial risk-adjusted basis: and statements.
Meet the expectations of our customers, investors and Reflecting Avivas objective of building financial strength and regulators that we will maintain sufficient capital surpluses to reducing capital volatility, the Group continued to take steps to meet our liabilities even if a number of extreme risks amend its risk profile, successfully completing a number of materialise.
management actions in progress at the 2013 year-end.
These include the disposal of the Groups interest in Eurovita resulting Avivas risk management framework has been designed and in a reduction in exposure to Italian sovereign and corporate implemented to support these objectives.
The key elements of debt, partly offset by an increase in exposures due to a our risk management framework comprise our risk appetite: risk reduction in minority interests in the Groups remaining Italian governance, including risk policies and business standards, risk businesses following their restructure during the year, and in oversight committees and roles & responsibilities: and the addition the disposal of our Turkish general insurance business, processes we use to identify, measure, manage, monitor and South Korean Life business and one of our Spanish joint report IMMMR risks, including the use of our risk models and ventures, CxG.
Restrictions on non-domestic investment in stress and scenario testing.
These elements are expanded in the sovereign and corporate debt from Greece, Italy, Portugal and IFRS Financial statements Note 58.
However, in light of the improving economic situation in Ireland, we have made a modest increase Principal risks and uncertainties in our exposure to Irish sovereign debt during the year.
As In accordance with the requirements of the FCA Handbook DTR described in note 58 to the IFRS Financial statements, a number 4.1.
8 we provide a description of the principal risks and of foreign exchange, credit and equity hedges are also in place.
uncertainties facing the Group here and in note 58 to the IFRS These are used to mitigate the Groups credit and equity Financial statements.
Our disclosures covering risks relating to exposure, and enable the Group to accept other credit risks our business in line with reporting requirements of the offering better risk adjusted returns while remaining within Securities Exchange Commission SEC provide more detail and appetite.
In addition, the Group reduced its exposure to can be found in the shareholder information section Risks longevity risk as a result of the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme relating to our business.
entering into a longevity swap covering 5 billion of pensioner in payment scheme liabilities on 5 March 2014.
Risk environment During 2014, the Group continued to pay-down the interThe benign financial market conditions experienced in 2013 company loan between Aviva Insurance Limited AIL and Aviva continued during 2014, albeit with increased volatility in the Group Holdings AGH from 4.8 billion at 31 December 2013 second half of the year as a result of concerns over eurozone to 3.2 billion at 31 December 2014.
At the end of February growth and deflation, China economic slowdown, the severe 2015, the balance of the loan stood at 2.8 billion with plans to fall in the price of oil and other commodities, the prospect of an reduce the balance by end of 2015 to the level at which we end to US monetary policy easing and geopolitical concerns over estimate AIL would no longer rely on the loan to meet its Russia, Ukraine and the Middle East.
These concerns are likely to stressed liabilities, equating currently to a balance of continue into 2015 with the potential to cause further financial approximately 2.2 billion.
market volatility and divergence amongst developed economies In 2014, the Group established Aviva International Insurance US compared to eurozone in particular in monetary policy, Limited AII as its primary on-shore internal reinsurance mixing interest rates and economic growth, and exacerbate vehicle with the conclusion of 10% and 5% quota share macroeconomic imbalances in the global economy.
However, internal reinsurance treaties covering the Groups UK annuity even for those western economies including the UK expected and general insurance businesses respectively.
The Group has to grow strongly, high levels of debt will continue to act as a plans to significantly increase the amount of business ceded to brake on growth and the low interest rate environment AII.
The objective of these plans is to promote capital efficiency compared to historic norms is likely to persist in the and realise the benefits of group diversification of risk through intermediate future at least.
lower solo capital requirements in the ceding entities.
2014 saw significant changes in UK public policy over long The successful completion of the sale of Eurovita in Italy and term savings and pension provision, most notably the our general insurance business in Turkey means that the Group announcement in March 2014 in the Budget ending compulsory has largely completed its strategy set out in 2012 of focusing on annuitisation.
In 2015 general elections in the UK, Poland, fewer businesses, allowing capital to be redeployed to Spain and Canada will exacerbate uncertainty over public policy businesses that enhance the Groups return on risk based and, in the UK, uncertainty over continued membership of the capital.
On 2 December 2014, the Group and Friends Life Group In November 2014 the Groups designation as a Global Limited Friends Life announced they had reached agreement Systemically Important Insurer G-SII was re-confirmed.
Among on the terms of the recommended all share acquisition of other policy requirements, this will result in additional loss Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 277 277 Friends Life by Aviva plc.
The proposed acquisition is subject to a measured and managed on a number of different bases.
These number of conditions including approval from shareholders at a are discussed further in the following sections.
If completed, the principal Accounting basis: impact on the Groups risk profile of the transaction will be to Capital employed by segment and financing of capital increase our exposure to equity price risk and UK life insurance The table below shows how our capital, on an IFRS basis, risks, in particular lapse risk.
is deployed by segment and how that capital is funded.
During 2014 the Group has continued to reduce its financial leverage consistent with the requirements for achieving the 2014 2013 Groups target credit rating of AA.
We expect a further m m reduction following the completion of the proposed acquisition Long-term savings 10,579 11,224 of Friends Life though clearly execution risk remains.
General insurance and health 6,007 5, 986 Fund management 298 237 1 Corporate and other business 702 1,305 Low interest rate environment Total capital employed 17,586 16,142 The Group continues to be adversely impacted by the low Financed by: interest rate environment in a number of markets around the Equity shareholders funds 10,018 7,964 world.
This has resulted in reduced interest spread on Non-controlling interests 1,166 1,471 participating contracts the difference between the amounts Direct capital instruments and fixed rate tier 1 notes 892 1,382 that we are required to pay under the contracts and the Preference shares 200 200 Subordinated debt 4,594 4,370 investment income we are able to earn on the investments Senior debt 716 755 supporting our obligations under those contracts, and current Total capital employed 17,586 16,142 reinvestment yields being lower than the overall current 1 Corporate and other business includes centrally held tangible net assets, the main UK staff pension scheme portfolio yield, primarily for our investments in fixed income surplus and also reflects internal lending arrangements.
These internal lending arrangements, which net out on consolidation include the formal loan agreement between Aviva Group Holdings and Aviva Insurance Limited securities and commercial mortgage loans.
interest rates may remain below historical averages for an 2 Internal capital management mechanisms in place allocated a majority of the total capital of AIL to the UK general insurance operations with the remaining capital deemed to be supporting residual non-operational extended period of time and that financial markets may Pillar II ICA risks.
3 Certain subsidiaries, subject to satisfying stand-alone capital and liquidity requirements, loan funds to corporate continue to have periods of high volatility.
As a result we and holding entities.
These loans satisfy arms length criteria and all interest payments are made when due.
continue to rebalance the Groups revenues towards product Total capital employed is financed by a combination of equity lines, such as protection, that are not significantly sensitive to shareholders funds, preference capital, subordinated debt and interest rate or market movements.
Further information on the borrowings.
Groups exposure to low interest rates is included in the At 2014 we had 17.6 billion 2013: 16.1 billion of total sensitivity analysis in Note 58 of the IFRS Financial Statements.
capital employed in our trading operations measured on an IFRS basis.
Capital management In July 2014 we issued 700 million of Lower Tier 2 Capital management objectives subordinated debt.
This bond has a 30 year term and may be The primary objective of capital management is to optimise the called from July 2024.
The proceeds were used to redeem a balance between return and risk, whilst maintaining economic 700 Direct Capital Instrument at its first call date in November and regulatory capital in accordance with risk appetite.
Avivas 2014. capital and risk management objectives are closely interlinked, and support the dividend policy and earnings per share growth, Regulatory capital overview whilst also recognising the critical importance of protecting Individual regulated subsidiaries measure and report solvency policyholder and other stakeholder interests.
based on applicable local regulations, including in the UK the Overall capital risk appetite, which is reviewed and approved regulations established by the Prudential Regulatory Authority by the Aviva Board, is set and managed with reference to the PRA.
These measures are also consolidated under the requirements of a range of different stakeholders including European Insurance Groups Directive IGD to calculate shareholders, policyholders, regulators and rating agencies.
Risk regulatory capital adequacy at an aggregate Group level, where appetite is expressed in relation to a number of key capital and we have a regulatory obligation to have a positive position at all risk measures, and includes an economic capital risk appetite of times.
holding sufficient capital resources to enable the Group to meet This measure represents the excess of the aggregate value of its liabilities in extreme adverse scenarios, on an ongoing basis, regulatory capital employed in our business over the aggregate calibrated at a level consistent with a AA range credit rating.
minimum solvency requirements imposed by local regulators, excluding the surplus held in the UK and Ireland with-profit life In managing capital we seek to: funds.
The minimum solvency requirement for our European maintain sufficient, but not excessive, financial strength in businesses is based on the Solvency 1 Directive.
In broad terms, accordance with risk appetite, to support new business for EU operations, this is set at 4% and 1% of non-linked and growth and satisfy the requirements of our regulators and unit-linked life reserves respectively and for our general other stakeholders giving both our customers and insurance portfolio of business is the higher of 18% of gross shareholders assurance of our financial strength: premiums or 26% of gross claims, in both cases adjusted to optimise our overall debt to equity structure to enhance our reflect the level of reinsurance recoveries.
For our business in returns to shareholders, subject to our capital risk appetite and Canada a risk charge on assets and liabilities approach is used.
balancing the requirements of the range of stakeholders: retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity, including significant unutilised committed credit facilities and access to a range of capital markets: allocate capital rigorously across the Group, to drive value adding growth through optimising risk and return: and declare dividends with reference to factors including growth in cash flows and earnings.
In line with these objectives, the capital generated and invested by the Groups businesses is a key management focus.
Capital is | 27 278 8 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Risk and capital management continued 31 31 Regulatory capital Group December December European Insurance Groups Directive 2014 2013 Estimated Capital Estimated Estimated Estimated 31 31 Estimated Estimated realistic support risk excess excess UK life Other December December realistic realistic inherited arrange capital available available funds business 2014 2013 1 2 3 assets liabilities estate ment margin capital capital bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Insurance Groups Directive IGD NWPSF 14.8 14.8 2.1 0.2 1.9 0.9 capital resources 6.0 8.4 14.4 14.4 OWPSF 2.8 2.5 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.3 Less: capital resources requirement 6.0 5.2 11.2 10.8 4 WPSF 17.1 15.5 1.6 0.3 1.3 1.2 Insurance Group Directive IGD Aggregate 34.7 32.8 1.9 2.1 0.6 3.4 2.4 excess solvency 3.2 3.2 3.6 1 These realistic liabilities include the shareholders' share of accrued bonuses of 0.2 billion 31 December 2013: Cover over EU minimum 0.1 billion.
Realistic liabilities adjusted to eliminate the shareholders' share of accrued bonuses are 33.1 calculated excluding UK life billion 31 December 2013: 33.4 billion.
These realistic liabilities make provision for guarantees, options and funds 1.6 times 1.7 times promises on a market consistent stochastic basis.
The value of the provision included within realistic liabilities is 1.4 billion, 0.3 billion and 3.0 billion for NWPSF, OWPSF and WPSF respectively 31 December 2013: 1.4 billion, 0.2 billion and 2.5 billion for NWPSF, OWPSF and WPSF respectively.
The EU Insurance Groups Directive IGD regulatory capital 2 Estimated realistic inherited estate at 31 December 2013 was nil, 0.4 billion and 1.5 billion for NWPSF, OWPSF and WPSF respectively.
solvency surplus has decreased by 0.4 billion since FY13 to 3 The support arrangement represents the reattributed estate RIEESA of 2.1 billion at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: 1.1 billion.
The increase arises mainly from the transfer of non-profit business from RIEESA to 3.2 billion.
This total includes an adverse impact of 0.4 billion NWPSF and recognition of the value of this business in RIEESA.
from recognising the proposed final dividend for 2014 that was 4 The WPSF fund includes the Provident Mutual PM fund which has realistic assets and liabilities of 1.7 billion and therefore does not contribute to the realistic inherited estate.
announced on 2 December 2014 as part of the announcement of the Groups offer to acquire Friends Life Group Limited.
The Investment mix dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM, but The aggregate investment mix of the assets in the three main is considered foreseeable and is therefore deducted from the 31 with-profits funds at 31 December 2014 was: December 2014 IGD surplus.
In contrast, the 2013 final dividend 31 31 of 0.3 billion was not foreseeable as at 31 December 2013, December December and was not deducted from the 2013 year-end IGD surplus.
2014 % 2013 % The key movements over the period are set out in the Equity 24% 29% Property 10% 12% following table: Fixed interest 59% 49% bn Other 7% 10% IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2013 3.6 Operating profits net of other income and expenses 1.2 The equity backing ratios, including property, supporting withDividends and appropriations 0.6 profit asset shares are 66% in NWPSF and OWPSF, and 66% in 1 Market movements including foreign exchange 0.2 WPSF.
Hybrid debt redemption 0.2 Internal reinsurance 0.3 Economic capital Pension scheme funding 0.2 We use a risk-based capital model to assess economic capital Acquisitions and disposals 0.2 requirements and to aid in risk and capital management across Increase in capital resources requirement 0.3 Estimated IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2014 excluding the Group.
The model is based on a framework for identifying foreseeable dividend 3.6 the risks to which business units, and the Group as a whole, are Foreseeable dividend 0.4 exposed.
Where appropriate, businesses also supplement these Estimated IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2014 3.2 with additional risk models and stressed scenarios specific to 1 Market movements include the impact of equity, credit spread, interest rate and foreign exchange movements their own risk profile.
When aggregating capital requirements at net of the effect of hedging instruments.
In the period market movements also include positive variances in the UK due to a change in the model used to value certain equity release assets and the consequential impact on business unit and Group level, we allow for diversification the liabilities that they back, offset by the higher cost of replacing mortgages after a fall in the risk free interest benefits between risks and between businesses, with restrictions rate.
to allow for non-fungibility of capital where appropriate.
This Regulatory capital UK Life with-profits fund means that the aggregate capital requirement is less than the The available capital of the with-profits funds is represented by sum of capital required to cover all of the individual risks.
The the realistic inherited estate.
The estate represents the assets of capital requirement reflects the cost of mitigating the risk of the long-term with-profits funds less the realistic liabilities for insolvency to a 99.5% confidence level over a one year time non-profit policies within the funds, less asset shares horizon equivalent to events occurring in 1 out of 200 years aggregated across the with-profits policies and any additional against financial and non-financial tests.
amounts expected at the valuation date to be paid to in-force The financial modelling techniques employed in economic policyholders in the future in respect of smoothing costs, capital enhance our practice of risk and capital management.
Realistic balance sheet information is They enable understanding of the impact of the interaction of shown below for the three main UK with-profit funds: Old different risks allowing us to direct risk management activities With-Profit Sub-Fund OWPSF, New With-Profit Sub-Fund appropriately.
These same techniques are employed to enhance NWPSF and With-Profit Sub-Fund WPSF.
These realistic product pricing and capital allocation processes.
Unlike more liabilities have been included within the long-term business traditional regulatory capital measures, economic capital also provision and the liability for insurance and investment contracts recognises the value of longer-term profits emerging from inon the consolidated IFRS statement of financial position at 31 force and new business, allowing for consideration of longerDecember 2014 and 31 December 2013. term value emergence as well as shorter-term net worth volatility in our risk and capital management processes.
We continue to develop our economic capital modelling capability for all our businesses as part of our development programme to increase the focus on economic capital management and meeting the emerging requirements of the Solvency II framework and external agencies.
Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 279 279 Solvency II In April 2014, the implementation date of Solvency II was confirmed in law as 1 January 2016, with the formal approval of the Omnibus II amendments.
Following the approval of Omnibus II in a plenary vote of the European Parliament on 11 March 2014, Solvency II is fully expected to come into effect on 1 January 2016.
The text of the Solvency II Delegated Act Level 2 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 17 January 2015 and the regulation entered into force on the following day.
Aviva continues to actively participate in the consultation on the Level 3 text through the key European industry working groups and respond on the relevant PRA consultation papers through the ABI, whilst engaging with the PRA and HM Treasury throughout.
This includes consideration of the role of transitionals once Solvency II comes into effect.
Rating agency Credit ratings are an important indicator of financial strength and support access to debt markets as well as providing assurance to business partners and policyholders over our ability to service contractual obligations.
In recognition of this we have solicited relationships with a number of rating agencies.
The agencies generally assign ratings based on an assessment of a range of financial factors e. g. capital strength, liquidity, leverage and fixed charge cover ratios and non-financial factors e. g. strategy, competitive position, and quality of management.
Certain rating agencies have proprietary capital models which they use to assess available capital resources against capital requirements as a component in their overall criteria for assigning ratings.
Managing our capital and liquidity position in accordance with our target rating levels is a core consideration in all material capital management and capital allocation decisions.
The Groups overall financial strength is reflected in our credit ratings.
The Groups rating from Standard and Poors is A strong with a Stable outlook: A1 good with a Stable 1 outlook from Moodys: and A excellent with the outlook under review with developing implications from A. M. Best.
These ratings incorporate the rating agency views on the proposed acquisition of Friends Life.
Financial flexibility The Groups borrowings are comprised primarily of long dated hybrid instruments with maturities spread over many years, minimising refinancing risk.
In addition to central liquid asset holdings of 0.8 billion, the majority of which was held within Aviva Group Holdings Limited at the 2014 year end, the Group also has access to unutilised committed credit facilities of 1.6 billion provided by a range of leading international banks.
1 Note that Moodys assign a Negative outlook to Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
