Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 3 303 03 disruption will not arise.
Such market conditions may limit our The use of inaccurate assumptions in pricing and reserving for insurance business may have an adverse effect on our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing debt, satisfy business profitability.
statutory capital requirements and generate fee income and Our life insurance companies are required to make a number of marketrelated revenue to meet liquidity needs.
assumptions in relation to the business written, including the As such, we may be forced to reduce our dividends, delay mortality and morbidity rates of our customers the proportion raising capital, issue shorter-term securities than we prefer, or of customers dying or falling sick or recovering from illness, the bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease development of interest rates, persistency rates the proportion profitability and reduce financial flexibility.
Our results of of customers retaining existing policies and continuing to pay operations, financial condition and cash flows could be premiums up to their maturity dates, the exercise by customers materially adversely affected.
of options included within their policies and future levels of As a holding company, Aviva plc is dependent over the expenses.
By their nature, these assumptions may prove to be medium to long term on its operating subsidiaries to cover incorrect.
operating expenses and dividend payments.
When establishing their liabilities, our life insurance As a holding company, Aviva plc has no substantial operations of companies allow for changes in the assumptions made, monitor its own.
Our principal sources of funding are dividends from their experience against the actuarial assumptions used and subsidiaries, shareholder-backed funds and any amounts that may assess the information gathered to refine their long-term be raised through the issuance of debt and commercial paper.
assumptions, together with taking actual claims experience into Our insurance and fund management operations are generally account.
However, it is not possible to determine precisely the conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries.
Certain total amounts that will ultimately be paid under the policies subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions that may limit the payment written by the business as amounts may vary from estimates.
of dividends and could prompt a decision to inject capital, which in Changes in assumptions may also lead to changes in the level of some more adverse circumstances and over the longer term could capital required to be maintained, meaning that we may need limit our ability to pay dividends to shareholders.
This could have a to increase the amount of our reserves.
This could have a material adverse impact on our business.
material adverse impact on our value, the results of our operations and financial condition.
A requirement to pay down intercompany indebtedness early Additionally, our management of the general insurance could have negative consequences for our business and business requires the general insurance companies to make a results of operations number of assumptions in relation to the business written.
An intercompany loan from Aviva Groups UK general insurance These assumptions include the costs of writing the business and company, Aviva Insurance Limited, to the Aviva Groups holding settling claims, and the frequency and severity of claims.
The company, Aviva Group Holdings Limited, was established in assumptions may turn out to be incorrect, thereby adversely February 2013 the balance of which was 3.2 billion as at 31 impacting on our profit.
Additionally, man-made disasters, December 2014 and 2.8 billion at the end of February 2015. including accidents and intentional events, are particularly The Aviva Group has agreed with the board of Aviva Insurance difficult to predict with a high degree of accuracy.
These would Limited an appropriate target for the long-term level of this loan also have an adverse impact on our profit due to higher than as part of Aviva Insurance Limiteds capital structure.
has been set such that Aviva Insurance Limited places no Furthermore, outstanding claims provisions for the general reliance on the loan to meet its stressed insurance liabilities, as insurance business are based on the best-estimate ultimate cost assessed on a 1:200 basis.
The Aviva Groups prudential of all claims incurred but not settled at a given date, whether regulator, the PRA, has agreed to this approach.
This objective is reported or not, together with related claims handling costs.
not expected to change as a result of the proposed acquisition Any provisions for re-opened claims are also included.
A range of Friends Life by Aviva the Proposed Acquisition and plans of methods, including stochastic projections, may be used to to reduce the internal loan to approximately 2.2 billion by the determine these provisions.
Underlying these methods are a end of 2015 currently satisfy this objective.
However, a number of explicit or implicit assumptions relating to the requirement to reduce the loan more rapidly or to a greater expected settlement amount and settlement pattern of claims.
extent than planned, including accelerating the cash repayment If the assumptions underlying the reserving basis were to prove of the loan, for example following a loss or deterioration in the incorrect, we might have to increase the amount of the general capital position of Aviva Insurance Limited, could have negative insurance provisions, which would adversely impact our financial consequences for our business and results of operations and, in condition or results of operations.
particular, could impact on the ability of Aviva Insurance Limited to remit dividends to Aviva plc.
We have a significant exposure to annuity business and a significant life insurance risk is associated with longevity.
Insurance risks relating to Avivas business Longevity statistics are monitored in detail, compared with The cyclical nature of the insurance industry may cause emerging industry trends, and the results are used to inform fluctuations in our results.
both the reserving and pricing of annuities.
It is likely that Historically, the insurance industry has been cyclical and uncertainty will remain in the development of future longevity operating results of insurers have fluctuated because of volatile that cannot be mitigated.
and sometimes unpredictable developments, many of which are A strengthening in the longevity assumption, either to beyond the direct control of any insurer.
Although we have a reflect changes in the underlying life expectancy for example, geographically diverse group of businesses providing a wide as a result of healthier lifestyles, improved screening range of products, we expect to experience the effects of this programmes or increased availability or effectiveness of medical cyclical nature, including changes in sales and premium levels.
treatments of the population or of our particular portfolio used The unpredictability and competitive nature of the general to calculate our long-term business liabilities, would result in an insurance business has contributed historically to significant increase in these reserves and reduce shareholders equity.
quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year fluctuations in underwriting results and net earnings.
