Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 30 309 9 We are dependent on the strength of our brand, the brands providers, which may pose additional challenges to our of our partners and our reputation with customers and business.
agents in the sale of our products and services.
Our principal competitors in the life market include many of Our results are, to a certain extent, dependent on the strength the major financial services businesses including, in particular, of our brand and reputation.
While we are well recognised, we Axa, Allianz, CNP, Generali, Prudential, Legal & General, are vulnerable to adverse market and customer perception.
We Standard Life, Unum and Zurich.
Our principal competitors in operate in an industry where integrity, customer trust and the general insurance market include Direct Line Insurance, confidence are paramount.
We are exposed to the risk that Intact, RSA, Zurich, Axa and Allianz.
Our principal competitors in litigation, employee misconduct, operational failures, the the fund management market include BlackRock, State Street outcome of regulatory investigations, press speculation and Global, Fidelity Investments, Schroders and Aberdeen, as well as negative publicity, disclosure of confidential client information, the fund management divisions of our principal competitors in inadequate services, amongst others, whether true or not, could the life market.
impact our brand or reputation.
Our brand and reputation could We also face competitors who specialise in many of the also be affected if products or services recommended by us or niche markets in which we operate.
We believe that any of our intermediaries do not perform as expected whether competition will intensify across all regions in response to or not the expectations are founded or in line with the consumer demand, technological advances, the impact of customers expectations for the product range.
Such a change consolidation, regulatory actions and other factors.
to our brand strength could adversely affect our results of Our ability to generate an appropriate return depends operations and financial condition.
significantly upon our capacity to anticipate and respond appropriately to these competitive pressures.
We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims by a third party.
Regulatory and legislative risks relating to our businesses Our primary brand in the UK Aviva is a registered trade mark We may experience a decreased demand for individual in the UK and elsewhere.
We own other registered or pending annuities in the United Kingdom after proposed changes in trade marks in the UK, including Community trade marks having UK law come into force.
We rely on a combination of contractual Our sales of annuities in the UK are composed of individual rights, copyright and trademark laws to establish and protect annuities and bulk purchase annuities.
We may experience a our intellectual property.
Although we use a broad range of decreased demand for individual annuities in the UK due to measures to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties proposed changes in UK law.
Individual annuities have may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property.
The historically played a central role in most UK pensioners loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure post-retirement financial arrangements due to the requirement or enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets for the benefits of defined contribution pensions to be could have a material adverse effect on our business and our converted to an individual annuity by the time the policyholder ability to compete.
reached age 75 and such pension contracts offering a tax Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents efficient method of saving for retirement.
or other protections that could be infringed by our products, On 19 March 2014, the UK Chancellor of the Exchequer methods, processes or services or could limit our ability to offer announced in the 2014 Budget the intention to introduce new certain product features.
In recent years, there has been legislation that will give retirees more flexibility for accessing increasing intellectual property litigation in the financial services defined contribution pensions at retirement.
Under the new industry challenging, among other things, product designs and system, inter alia, consumers approaching retirement would business processes.
If a third party were to successfully assert an have the freedom to take their whole pension pot as cash the intellectual property infringement claim against us, or if we first 25% remaining tax-free, with the balance taxed at the were otherwise precluded from offering certain features or individuals marginal rate, which will remove the compulsion designs, or utilising certain processes, it could have a material for customers to buy an annuity.
Although it is proposed that effect on our business, results of operation and financial the main changes will not take effect until April 2015, sales of condition.
individual annuities in the United Kingdom have already been impacted.
The initial impact of the announcement of the Our businesses are conducted in highly competitive proposed legislative change was a reduction in UK individual environments.
annuity sales due to the relaxation of the income drawdown There are many factors which affect our ability to sell our rules that has already occurred and as some customers deferred products, including fiscal incentives, price and yields offered, making retirement choices pending the new legislation coming financial strength and ratings, range of product lines and into effect.
Following the Chancellors announcement, the product quality, brand strength and name recognition, service Group generated value of new business VNB from individual levels to customers, fund management performance and annuities of 125 million for the year ending 31 December historical bonus levels.
In some of our markets, we face 2014 representing 12% of the Aviva Groups total VNB for the competitors that are comparable in size, scope and brand year ending 31 December 2014, decreasing from 223 million recognition.
In some markets, competitors have greater financial for the year to 31 December 2013 representing 25% of resources or greater market share, offer a broader range of Groups total VNB for the year to 31 December 2013.
In products, benefit from more advantageous tax treatments, or response, we have refocused our retirement solutions business have higher bonus rates or claims paying ratios.
Further, to use our existing broad product universe for example, heightened competition for talented and skilled employees with individual annuities, investment platform and equity release local experience, particularly in the emerging, high-growth products to help customers through their retirement journey markets, may limit our ability to grow businesses as quickly as and we also seek to deliver profitable growth from our Bulk planned.
In certain non-UK markets, we face intense Purchase Annuities products.
However, at this stage it remains competition from local and international financial institutions, too early to assess the full impact of these changes on our which may be more established in these markets and may have adjusted operating profit and the extent to which these impacts other competitive advantages, such as greater size and breadth, can be mitigated by substitution of annuity sales with alternative which may limit our ability to be successful in these markets.
In products offered or being developed by us.
addition, local laws and regulations may be tailored to domestic | 31 310 0 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Shareholder information continued Our regulated business is subject to extensive regulatory in investigative, disciplinary or enforcement actions by the FCA supervision both in the UK and internationally.
or PRA or require the making of redress to customers.
We are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are There has been an increased focus in the UK on the fair administered and enforced by a number of different treatment of customers, in particular on the way in which the governmental authorities and non-governmental agencies, insurance industry or fund management industry sells and including the PRA, the FCA and other regulators.
In light of administers insurance policies or other products.
This has wider financial and economic conditions, some of these included the implementation of the recommendations of the authorities are considering, or may in the future consider, Retail Distribution Review RDR from 31 December 2012.
The enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent RDR banned product providers from paying commission to future crises or otherwise assure the stability of institutions advisers on new sales and also required certain changes to the under their supervision.
These authorities may also seek to way advisers describe their services to customers.
The new exercise their supervisory or enforcement authority in new or distribution landscape has altered the way in which retail more robust ways.
All of these possibilities, if they occurred, investment products are sold to customers and presents could affect the way we conduct our business and manage our challenges to our UK distribution and advisory activities in capital, and may require us to satisfy increased capital adapting to the new rules.
The European Commission is requirements.
currently in the process of reviewing the Insurance Mediation Insurance regulation in the UK is largely based on the Directive 2002 92 EC the IMD and has also been working on requirements of EU directives.
Inconsistent application of an initiative in relation to Packaged Retail and Insurance-based directives by regulators in different EU member states may place Investment Products PRIIPs with the aim of harmonising us at a competitive disadvantage to other European financial pre-contractual disclosures and selling practices for such services groups.
In addition, changes in the local regulatory products.
There is a risk that the rules implementing the RDR, regimes of designated territories could affect the calculation of any new rules required in due course to implement the revised our solvency position.
IMD and any new rules relating to PRIIPs will lead to a decline in Our insurance subsidiaries and branches worldwide are the number and or size of distribution firms.
Among other subject to detailed and comprehensive government regulation in things, this is because financial advisers may decide to each of the jurisdictions in which they conduct business.
consolidate or to leave the sector in response to anticipated Regulatory agencies have broad administrative power over many increased compliance costs that may be realised and the higher aspects of the insurance business, which may include premium professional standards required by the RDR.
In the lead up to rates, marketing and selling practices, advertising, licensing the introduction to the RDR, the number of retail investment agents, policy forms, capital adequacy and permitted advisers in the UK reduced.
If a reduction in the capacity of the investments.
Government regulators are concerned primarily intermediary distribution sector does occur, this may result in with the protection of policyholders rather than our fewer opportunities for our products to be distributed by shareholders or creditors.
intermediary firms, which could have a material adverse effect The failure of any of our subsidiaries to meet minimum on our results, operations, and or costs or otherwise negatively capital and surplus requirements could subject us to further impact on our distribution arrangements.
examination or corrective action imposed by insurance Where larger groups or matters of public policy are regulators, including limitations on our ability to write additional concerned, the PRA and the FCA may intervene directly to business, increased supervision by regulators or the provide redress to customers.
There have been several  of resolution plans.
Any corrective action wide issues in recent years in which the PRA or the FCA or imposed could have a material adverse effect on our business, previously the FSA has intervened directly, including the sale of results of operations and financial condition.
A decline in personal pensions, the sale of mortgage-related endowments minimum capital and surplus amounts may also limit the ability and investments in split capital investment trusts and sale of of an insurance subsidiary to make dividend payments or payment protection insurance.
distributions and could be a factor in causing rating agencies to Outside of the UK, our businesses are regulated by local downgrade our financial strength ratings, which could have a regulators that often have similar powers to the PRA and the material adverse effect on our business, results of operations FCA and the exercise of these powers could therefore have a and financial condition.
similar negative impact on perceptions of our businesses or have In the UK, our business is subject to regulation by both the a material adverse effect on our business.
PRA and the FCA, which have broad powers, including the Furthermore, various jurisdictions in which we operate, authority to grant, vary the terms of, or cancel a regulated firms including the UK, have created investor compensation schemes authorisation, to investigate marketing and sales practices, to that require mandatory contributions from market participants make product intervention rules and to require the maintenance in some instances in the event of a failure of another market of adequate financial resources.
The PRA and the FCA have the participant.
As a major participant in the majority of our chosen power to undertake a range of investigative, disciplinary or markets, circumstances could arise where we, along with other enforcement actions, including public censure, restitution, fines companies, may be required to make such contributions.
We or sanctions and to require firms to pay compensation.
like all other groups in which an entity is PRA and or FCA The PRA and the FCA may make enquiries of the companies regulated contribute to the Financial Services Compensation which they regulate regarding compliance with regulations Scheme and the levels of contribution to the Financial Services governing the operation of business and, similar to the other UK Compensation Scheme may change over time.
regulated financial services companies, we face the risk that the A determination that we have failed to comply with PRA or the FCA could find that we have failed to comply with applicable regulation could have a negative impact on our applicable regulations or have not undertaken corrective action results of operations or on our relations with current and as required.
Regulatory action against a member of the Issues and disputes may arise from time to time from the Group could result in adverse publicity for, or negative way in which the insurance industry or fund management perceptions regarding, the Group, or could have a material industry has sold or administered an insurance policy or other adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and product or in the way in which they have treated policyholders financial condition and divert managements attention from the or customers, either individually or collectively, which may result day-to-day management of the business.
Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 311 311 We will not always be able to predict the impact of future Directive is 1 January 2016.
Solvency II represents a significant legislation or regulation or changes in the interpretation or change in the prudential regulation of insurers and insurance operation of existing legislation or regulation on our business, groups and, as a result, generates a number of material risks results of operations and financial condition.
Changes in including, in particular, the following: There continue to be government policy, legislation or regulatory interpretation material uncertainties around the impact of the more detailed applying to companies in the financial services and insurance technical requirements of Solvency II and around the approval of industries in any of the markets in which we operate, which internal models and there is a risk that this could lead to a may be applied retrospectively, may adversely affect the range significant increase in the capital required to support our of products offered, the terms and conditions applicable to business.
There is also a risk that certain of the financial these products including retrospectively, distribution channels, instruments issued by the Group will no longer be viewed as capital requirements, dividends payable by subsidiaries and, capital by regulators resulting in either a lower regulatory capital consequently, results and financing requirements.
position or the need to refinance those financial instruments.
In Similarly, the FCA has conducted a number of thematic addition, there is the risk that part or all of the Group is found reviews of the annuity market.
Initially, a review was conducted not to be compliant with the new regulations or that the by the FCA of annuity pricing data, which concluded in February implementation programmes absorb excessive amounts of 2014 that the market was not working well for most management time and attention with the consequent risks for consumers.
This pricing review looked at whether and to what the rest of the businesses operations.
extent prospective customers are not purchasing the best value In July 2013 the Group was designated by the Financial annuities, or exercising the open market option OMO to buy Stability Board FSB as a global systemically important insurer their annuity from a firm other than the one providing the G-SII.
The initial list of nine insurance groups that have been pension policy.
The FCA conducted its own pricing research to designated as G-SIIs also includes a number of our competitors.
determine which groups of consumers are most likely to be The list will be updated annually and was reconfirmed in affected.
This involved a pricing survey of major annuity November 2014.
If the proposed acquisition of Friends Life providers, and compared the rates available through a range of Group is completed, the enlarged Group will have an increased distribution channels, including rates available through the likelihood of remaining on the list, due to its increased business OMO and those only available to existing pension policyholders.
For so long as it is designated as a G-SII, the Group is This pricing review was followed up by the related Thematic within the scope of policy requirements issued by the Review of Annuity Sales Practices, which was published by the International Association of Insurance Supervision IAIS, FCA on 11 December 2014.
The Thematic Review of Annuity including: enhanced supervision requiring the maintenance of a Sales Practices looked at four desired outcomes: i Customers Systemic Risk Management Plan: a liquidity risk management are actively encouraged to shop around: ii Consumers are plan: a recovery plan: a resolution plan: and higher loss provided with relevant and timely information about the absorbency capital requirements, which will apply from January potential benefits of any guaranteed annuity rate or risks of a 2019 for those insurers still designated as G-SIIs in November market value reduction that exists in their existing pension 2017.
Details of the higher loss absorbency capital requirements contract: iii Consumers are provided with appropriate and are still being developed by the IAIS leading to uncertainty over timely information about a the benefits of enhanced annuities their impact.
There is a risk that, if we continue to be and their potential eligibility b an enhanced annuity being designated as a G-SII, this could lead to a significant increase in available on the open market and c the potential for variation capital required to support our business which may give rise to a between different providers underwriting and its impact on the need for us to delay deleveraging plans or to issue additional income offered: and iv Consumers are provided with debt.
Similarly we could be required to reduce or discontinue appropriate information about the different annuity options activities which contribute to systemic riskiness, restructure to available to them for example, joint as opposed to single life, facilitate resolvability and or remove or reduce or accelerate the level as opposed to escalating, guaranteed periods etc.
and the planned reduction of intercompany debts or guarantees within implications of selecting different annuity types.
Such requirements could have negative highlighted that its work on this review has revealed that firms consequences for our business and results of operations and, in need to make improvements in relation to the way consumers particular, could impact on the ability of subsidiaries to remit are informed about shopping around for enhanced annuities.
and consequently on the Avivas ability to The FCA has asked the majority of firms in the review, including remit dividends to shareholders.
the Group, to do further work to determine if its findings in The IAIS is also developing a common framework for the relation to enhanced annuities are indicative of a more supervision of internationally active insurance groups widespread problem and or have led to poor consumer ComFrame.
The framework is designed to develop common outcomes.
The consequences of the review are uncertain but principles for supervision and so may result in more extensive could include requirements to pay redress to customers who regulation, particularly at group level, in those jurisdictions could have obtained a more favourable annuity rate by which do not currently employ group-wide supervision.
In exercising their OMO or purchasing an enhanced annuity and or addition, it is not clear how ComFrame will interact with existing the imposition of greater obligations on annuity providers to regimes of group-wide supervision.
On 9 October 2013, the IAIS treat customers fairly and provide increased levels of announced a commitment to develop a risk-based global information on alternative options available to customers at insurance standard ICS by 2016.
The intention is that the retirement.
Regulatory action of this type could have ICS will ultimately form part of ComFrame.
A revised draft consequences for the Group and have a material adverse effect ComFrame proposal was published in September 2014 and on our business, results of operations and or financial condition.
ComFrame, including the final ICS, is expected to be adopted in We may face increased compliance costs due to the need to 2018. set up additional compliance controls or the direct cost of such We are involved in various legal proceedings, regulatory compliance because of changes to financial services legislation investigations and examinations and may be involved in or regulation.
The Solvency II Directive, an insurance industry regulation We have been named as defendants in lawsuits, including class agreed by the European Parliament in 2009, will require actions and individual lawsuits.
We have been subject to European domiciled insurers to move to more risk-based capital regulatory investigations or examinations in the various requirements.
The implementation date for the Solvency II
