| 56 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Risk R isks and risk management By focusing on four core business lines life, general and health insurance and asset management we have chosen to accept the risks inherent in these lines ofbusiness We achieve significant diversification of risk through our scale, our multi-product offering to customers, the differing countries we choose to operate in and through the different distribution channels we use to sell products to our customers.
Our business is about protecting our customers from the impact of risk.
We receive The key is to premiums which we invest in order to maximise risk-adjusted returns, so that we can fulfil our promises to customers while providing a return to our shareholders.
In doing understand the risk so, we accept the risks set out below: that youre taking and the reward that Risks customers Risks from Risks from our transfer to us investments operations and other you get from it.
business risks General insurance risk: Uncertain returns on our Operational risk is the John Lister Arising from loss events investments as a result of risk of direct or indirect fire, flooding, windstorms, credit risk actual defaults loss, arising from Group Chief Risk Officer accidents etc.. and market expectation of inadequate or failed defaults and market risks internal processes, people Health insurance risk: resulting from fluctuations and systems, or external Healthcare costs and loss in asset values, including events including changes of earnings arising from equity prices, property in the regulatory morbidity risk customers prices, foreign exchange environment.
falling ill. How we manage our risks rates and interest rates Such operational failures Life insurance risk: affect our ability to fund Our core expertise is understanding and may adversely impact Includes longevity risk our promises to customers managing these risks, so that we can customers directly or our annuitants living longer and other creditors, as well competitively price our products, deliver reputation with the public, than we expect, mortality as pay a return to our on our promises to customers and provide customers, agents and risk customers with life shareholders.
sustainable earnings growth to our regulators, and impair our protection dying, expense shareholders.
Liquidity risk is the risk of ability to attract new risk the amount it costs us We manage risk through our choice of not being able to make business.
to administer policies and business strategy, underpinned by our payments as they become persistency risk customers Asset management risk business culture and values, continuously due because there are lapsing or surrendering is the risk of customers seeking to identify opportunities to insufficient assets in cash their policies.
redeeming funds, not maximise risk-adjusted returns.
The relatively illiquid investing with us or Some of our life and and consistent risk management is nature of insurance switching funds, resulting embedded across the Group through our savings contracts provide liabilities is a potential in reduced fee income.
We guaranteed minimum risk management framework, which source of additional manage funds on behalf of includes the following key elements: investment returns to investment return by our customers, so they do customers, and as a result allowing us to invest in not have to manage the 1.
Our risk appetite framework we accept from them higher yielding, but less credit, market and investment type risks such liquid assets.
Our risk management processes operational risks which as credit and market risk otherwise they would have 3.
Our risk governance in order to offer upside to manage themselves.
potential but provide protection against the downside.
R Strategic report e p o r t e r u s a e M M o n i t | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 57 Our risk management framework 2.
Our risk governance The core business processes we use to Risk is governed through group-wide risk identify, measure, manage, monitor policies and business standards, risk andreport IMMMR risks, delivered oversight committees and clear roles, byour organisation and people, are responsibilities and delegated authorities.
setout below: The Aviva plc Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite and Identify and measure establishing and operating controls to Risk Risk identification is carried out on a assess and manage the risks.
The Board management regular basis, including as part of the delegates day-to-day risk management to framework business planning process and any major the Group CEO, who delegates operational business initiatives, and draws on a aspects to executives within the Group combination of internal and external data, through delegated authority letters.
covering both normal conditions and Line management in the business is stressed environments.
Risks are recorded accountable for risk management, which on a business-wide key risk register.
together with the risk function and We measure risks on the basis of internal audit form our three lines of 1.
Our risk appetite framework economic capital as well as other bases defence of risk management.
ifappropriate to determine their Our risk appetite framework comprises: significance, relative to the potential return Overarching risk appetites: and to appropriately direct resources to Quantitative expressions of the level of their management.
risk we can support e. g. capital we are 1st line prepared to put at risk Manage and monitor Risk preferences: Qualitative Monitoring ensures that the risk statements on the risks we believe we management and mitigation approaches Functions Product development are capable of managing to generate accept, avoid, transfer, control in place Underwriting Sales & Distribution areturn, risks we can support but need are effective.
Monitoring may also identify Customer service Claims handling to be controlled, and risks we seek to risk-taking opportunities.
Finance & Capital Investment IT HR avoid or minimise We regularly monitor our risk Legal Procurement Operating risk limits and tolerances: exposures against risk appetites, as well as Accountable for the management Quantify specific boundaries e. g. limits key risk indicators against operating and of all risks relevant to the business on specific risks.
financial risk limits and tolerances.
warning indicators are monitored as The Aviva Board has approved four risk triggers for management action, such as appetite statements: putting into effect pre-prepared Economic capital: Based on economic contingency plans.
2nd line capital at risk in an extreme loss event We monitor the effectiveness of over a one year time horizon controls in place to manage operational European Insurance Groups Directive risks, including compliance with the IGD capital: Based on maintaining an Risk including regulatory Groups internal business standards.
appropriate level of required regulatory compliance and actuarial oversight solvency capital in a severe loss event functions Report Liquidity: Based on stressing one year Accountable for providing objective Risk reporting is dynamic, focused on: forecast central liquid assets and cash challenge and oversight of the business Material risks and trends inflows and outflows covering Group management of all risks and for Performance and the impact on the centre costs, debt costs and dividends developing and maintaining the risk riskprofile, historical and prospective Franchise value: Long-term sustainability management framework.
Decisions, taking account of risk depends upon the protection of franchise rewardtrade-offs value and good customer relationships.
Projections forward-looking views As such, Aviva will not accept risks that Mitigating actions materially impair the reputation of the Risk vs. appetite 3rd line Group and requires that customers are always treated with integrity.
Supported by our organisation andpeople Internal Audit Risk appetites are clearly defined, Good risk management is supported by Accountable for providing reliable refreshed on a regular basis and form part our staff having clear roles and independent assessment and reporting of the planning process.
Risk appetites responsibilities, the right skills and to the Group and business unit Audit exist in aggregate and by risk type.
capabilities, and the right incentives and and Risk Committees, Board members rewards.
We strive to embed a risk-aware and Executive Management ofAviva plc culture and values in our business through and its subsidiaries on theadequacy and employee training and communications.
effectiveness of the risk management and control frameworks operated by the 1st and 2nd lines of defence.
o r y f i t n e d I M a n a g e | 58 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Risk continued Principal risk types The types of risk to which the Group is exposed, described in the table below, have not changed significantly over the year.
Theprincipal impact on the Groups risk profile of the planned acquisition of Friends Life, subject to successful completion, willbetoincrease our exposure to equity price risk and UK life insurance risks, in particular persistency risk.
The operational risksofintegration will also require close management.
Risk type Risk preference Mitigation We take on credit risk as we believe Risk appetites set to limit overall level of credit risk Credit risk we have the expertise to manage it.
Credit limit framework imposes limits on credit concentration by Credit spread and As an insurer, we benefit from issuer, sector and type of instrument default being able to invest for the long Investment restrictions on sovereign and corporate exposure to some term due to the relative stability and eurozone countries predictability of our cash outflows.
Credit risk hedging Specific asset fide-risking We actively seek some market risks Risk appetites set to limit exposures to key market risks Market risk as part of our investment and Active asset management and hedging in business units Equity price product strategy.
We have a limited Scaleable Group-level equity and foreign exchange hedging Property appetite for interest rate, foreign programme Interest rate exchange and inflation risks as we Pension fund fide-risking Foreign exchange do not believe that these are Asset and liability duration matching limits impact of interest rate Inflation adequately rewarded.
changes and actions taken to manage guarantee risk, through product design We take measured amounts of life Risk appetites set to limit exposures to key life and health insurance Life and health and health insurance risks where we risks insurance risks have the appropriate core skills in Risk selection and underwriting on acceptance of new Longevity underwriting.
We like longevity and business Persistency mortality risks as they diversify well Product design that ensures products and propositions meet Mortality i. e. have little or no correlation customer needs Morbidity against other risks we retain.
Use of reinsurance to mitigate mortality morbidity risks Expenses Staff pension scheme longevity swap covering approximately New business 5 billion of pensioner in payment liabilities We take general insurance risk in Risk appetites set to limit exposures to key general insurance risks General insurance measured amounts for explicit Extensive use of data, financial models and analysis to improve risk reward, in line with our core skills in pricing and risk selection GI catastrophe underwriting and pricing.
We have Underwriting limits linked to delegations of authority that govern GI reserving latent and a preference for those risks that we underwriting decisions non-latent understand well, that are Product development in management framework that ensures GI underwriting new intrinsically well managed and products and propositions meet customer needs business where there is a spread of risks in Documented claims management philosophies and procedures the same category.
GI risk Use of reinsurance to reduce the financial impact diverisifies well with our life of a catastrophe and manage earnings volatility insurance and other risks.
1 Liquidity risk The relatively illiquid nature of Maintaining committed borrowing facilities 1.55 billion from insurance liabilities is a potential banks source of additional investment Asset liability matching methodology develops optimal asset return by allowing us to invest in portfolio maturity structures in our businesses to ensure cash flows higher yielding, but less liquid, are sufficient to meet liabilities assets such as commercial Commercial paper issuance mortgages.
Contingency Funding Plan in place to address liquidity funding requirements in a significant stress scenario Asset management Risks specific to asset management Product development and review process should generally be reduced to as risk Investment performance and risk management oversight and review low a level as is commercially process Retention sensible, on the basis that taking on Propositions based on customer needs New business these risks will rarely provide us with Client relationship teams managing client retention risk Expenses an upside.
Operational risk should generally be Application of enhanced business standards covering key processes Operational risk reduced to as low a level as is Monitoring of controls through assurance activity and information Conduct & reputation commercially sensible, on the basis on the operation of the control environment from management, Legal & regulatory that taking operational risk will rarely internal audit and risk functions, supported by operational risk and People provide us with an upside, and audit registers and first line control logs Process operational failures may adversely Scenario based approach to determine appropriate level of capital Data security impact our reputation, impairing our for operational risks ability to attract new business, or Technology Conduct risk management framework lead to poor customer outcomes.
Avivas top three risks ranked by economic capital at risk in a 1-200 year loss event over a one year time horizon.
Strategic report | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 59 Emerging risks and Case study causal factors Being prepared for We also manage and monitor risks and causal factors which may impact our the worst longer term profitability and viability, in particular our ability to write profitable The Group and its businesses have new business.
For example, such risks contingency plans in place to ensure a andfactors include: swift and effective response in case risks crystallise into major loss events, including: Climate change potentially resulting Financial Event Response Plans to in higher than expected weather-related ensure we can respond promptly to severe claims and inaccurate pricing of general adverse financial events e. g. equity market insurance risk.
that may New technologies failure to weaken the financial position of Aviva understand and react to the impact Business Continuity Plans to ensure ofnew technology and its effect on we can continue to operate and serve customer behaviour and how we our customers in the event of terrorism, distribute products could potentially result pandemic, cyber-attack or other events in our business model becoming obsolete.
disrupting our operations Regulatory change our businesses face considerable regulatory change as Major Incident Response Plans to aresult of Solvency II, our designation by ensure we can maintain our level of the Financial Stability Board as a Global customer service in response to a spike in systemically important insurer G-SII and demand resulting from a major weather developments in conduct regulation, event e. g. floods, windstorms or other which will affect how much capital we loss event.
hold, how we operate and how we sell We use war-gaming to test the and distribute our products.
While effectiveness of our plans in the event ongoing consultations on implementing theserisks crystallise.
standards and supervisory guidelines have reduced the level of uncertainty over the final capital impact on our business of Solvency II effective 1 January 2016, some uncertainty Prolonged low interest rate amounts we currently expect.
Historic remains, including over the outcome environment if current low interest examples include the positive impact on ofthe Groups application to use an rates continue for a prolonged period it life expectancy of reduced rates of internal model to calculate our capital will adversely affect the spread we can smoking over the last 40 years.
earn between the returns we can offer Pandemics, new diseases and Political risk governments in the customers and the return we earn on antibiotic resistance the adverse markets in which we operate incentivise our investments, as well as the impact on mortality could negatively long-term saving and private pension attractiveness of the returns we can offer impact the profitability of our life provision through tax benefits, while also to new customers.
protection products, increase private providing an alternative through state Macroeconomic growth the health insurance claims, and even affect provision.
In some markets there are or slowdown in economic growth in Asia, general insurance claims.
A pandemic could be in the future restrictions and and re-emerging concerns over the might also disrupt our operations.
controls on premium rates, rating factors economic performance of the eurozone, Big Data failure to keep pace with and charges.
Any change in public policy could precipitate a wider global economic the use of data to price more accurately could influence the demand for, and slowdown, which could adversely impact and to detect insurance fraud could profitability of, our products.
For example, our investments, customer retention and lead to loss of competitive advantage in March 2014 the UK Government new business levels.
announced the end of compulsory New and emerging latent claims Changes in customer behaviour annuitisation, which has significantly new claims on policies written a long changes in the legal environment or reduced demand for individual annuities.
time in the past may arise as a result of as a result of advances in technology The diversity of our product offering and future court judgements extending may change the rates at which the geographies in which we operate liability, new legislation, new historic customers exercise options embedded partly mitigates this risk.
evidence and interpretation, emerging in their contracts or enable them to take Cyber crime criminals may attempt to medical science on health effects of advantage of additional information access our IT systems to steal or utilise long-term exposures to chemicals etc.
available to them to exercise options in company and customer data, or plant Examples over the last 30 years include a way that is adverse to us.
malware viruses, in order to access asbestosis, repetitive strain injury and customer or company funds, and or industrial deafness.
See pages 18 and 52 on how we address damage our reputation and brand.
While Medical advances and healthier life the risks of new technologies and climate we have IT security and data encryption styles medical advances and healthier change through our business strategies to prevent this happening, the increasing life styles may increase life expectancy of and corporate responsibility respectively.
sophistication of criminals and the focus our annuitants and thus future payments on digital automation as part of our over their lifetime may be in excess of the strategy make this an increasing risk.
| 60 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 This page is intentionally blank
