| 30 300 0 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Shareholder information continued up entirely, the impact on the financial and currency markets We use reinsurance and hedging programmes to hedge various would be significant and could impact materially all financial risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefit contained institutions, including the Group.
Past political negotiations in in many of our long-term insurance and fund management the United States over raising the U. S. debt ceiling indicate that products.
These programmes cannot eliminate all of the risks a risk of sovereign debt default and the potential adverse impact and no assurance can be given as to the extent to which such on global markets which could result from this is not limited to programmes will be effective in reducing such risks.
Such events could adversely affect our business into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, and results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
forwards, interest rate and currency swaps, with a number of counterparties.
Our obligations under our fund management Credit spread volatility may adversely affect the net and life products are not changed by our hedging activities and unrealised value of the our investment portfolio and the we are liable for our obligations even if our derivative results of our operations.
counterparties do not pay us.
Defaults by such counterparties Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition variability associated with changes in credit spreads in our and results of operations.
investment portfolio, which is largely held to maturity.
Credit We are also susceptible to an adverse financial outcome spread moves may be caused by changes in the perception of from a change in third-party credit standing.
As well as having a the creditworthiness of a company, or from market factors such potential impact on asset values and, as a result, our financial as the markets risk appetite and liquidity.
A widening of credit condition and results of operations, credit rating movements spreads will generally reduce the value of fixed income securities can also impact our solvency position where regulatory capital we hold.
Conversely, credit spread tightening will generally requirements are linked to the credit rating of the investments increase the value of fixed income securities we hold.
Such movements could impact on the Groups solvency, difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less profitability and shareholders equity.
Accordingly, valuations of investments may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to Market risks relating to Avivas business period changes that could have a material adverse effect on our Changes in interest rates may cause policyholders to consolidated results of operations or financial condition.
surrender their contracts, reduce the value of our investment Downturns in the net unrealised value of our investment portfolio and may have an adverse impact on our asset and liability matching, which could adversely affect our results of portfolio may also have a material adverse effect on our operation and financial condition.
regulatory capital surplus based on the EU Insurance Groups Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including Directive and under the Individual Capital Assessment required governmental, monetary and tax policies, domestic and by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA in the UK.
international economic and political considerations, inflationary Although the our financial statements reflect the market value factors, fiscal deficits, trade surpluses or deficits, regulatory of assets, our priority remains the management of assets and requirements and other factors beyond our control.
liabilities over the longer term.
Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the Losses due to defaults by counterparties, including potential market price and cash flow variability of assets and liabilities sovereign debt defaults or restructurings, could adversely associated with changes in interest rates.
affect the value of our investments and reduce our Some of our products, principally traditional participating profitability and shareholders equity.
products, universal life insurance and annuities expose us to the We choose to take and manage credit risk through investment risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our spread, or the assets partly to increase returns to policyholders whose policies difference between the amounts that we are required to pay the assets back, and partly to optimise the return for under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn shareholders.
on investments intended to support obligations under the We have a significant exposure to third parties that owe us contracts.
Our spread is a key component of our net income.
money, securities or other assets who may not perform under As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be their payment obligations.
These parties include private sector forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured and government or government-backed issuers whose debt or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our securities we hold in our investment portfolios including investment return.
Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem mortgage-backed, asset-backed, government bonds and other the fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and types of securities, borrowers under residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with mortgages and other loans, re-insurers to which we have ceded greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, insurance risks, customers, trading counterparties, and which increases this risk.
Lowering interest crediting or counterparties under swap and other derivative contracts.
We policyholder bonus rates can help offset decreases in investment also execute transactions with other counterparties in the margins on some products.
However, our ability to lower these financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, rates could be limited by competition or by contractually commercial and investment banks, hedge funds and other guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or investment funds, insurance groups and institutions.
Many of magnitude of changes in asset yields.
As a result, our spread these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default could decrease or potentially become negative.
Our expectation of our counterparty.
for future spreads is an important component in the In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit amortisation of policy acquisition costs and significantly lower risk may be increased when the collateral held by us cannot be spreads may cause us to accelerate amortisation, thereby realised or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full reducing net income in the affected reporting period.
In amount of the loan or other value due.
We also have exposure addition, during periods of declining interest rates, the to financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt guarantees within existing life insurance and annuity products instruments and derivative transactions.
Such losses or may be more attractive to consumers, resulting in increased impairments to the carrying value of these assets could premium payments on products with flexible premium features, materially and adversely affect the our financial condition and and a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force results of operations.
from year to year, during a period when our new investments carry lower returns.
Accordingly, during periods of declining Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 3 301 01 interest rates, profitability may suffer as the result of a decrease investors withdrawing funds or reducing their rates of on-going in the spread between interest rates credited to policyholders investment with our fund management companies, or switching and returns on our investment portfolio.
to lower risk funds generating lower income, or as a result of Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect our fund management companies failing to attract funds from our profitability.
This could arise as the accommodative new investors.
Similarly, bonuses credited to participating monetary policies of central banks, in particular the US Federal policyholders will reduce following declines in equity and Reserve and the Bank of England, are wound down or stopped.
property markets and this will generally also lead to reductions Surrenders of life insurance policies and fixed annuity contracts in transfers to shareholders.
may increase as policyholders seek higher returns and higher Downturns in equity markets may also have a material guaranteed minimum returns.
Obtaining cash to satisfy these adverse effect on our regulatory capital surplus as measured surrenders may require us to liquidate fixed maturity under the EU Insurance Groups Directive and under the investments at a time when market prices for those assets are Individual Capital Assessment required by the PRA in the UK.
depressed which may result in realised investment losses.
We provide certain guarantees within some of our products Regardless of whether we realise an investment loss, these cash that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the payments would result in a decrease in total invested assets, and equity markets.
In volatile or declining equity market conditions, may decrease our net income.
Premature withdrawals may also we may need to increase liabilities for future policy benefit and cause us to accelerate amortisation of policy acquisition costs, policyholder account balances, negatively affecting net income.
which would also reduce our net income.
For property investment, we are subject to counterparty, Our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are valuation and liquidity risks.
These investments may be adversely primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with affected by weakness in property markets and increased diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration mortgage delinquencies.
We are also subject to property risk approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability indirectly in our investments in residential mortgage-backed cash flow profile.
However, it may not be possible to hold assets securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities and that will provide cash flows to exactly match those relating to covered bonds.
There is the risk that the underlying collateral policyholder liabilities, in particular in jurisdictions with less may fall in value causing the investment in securities to fall in developed bond markets and in certain markets where value.
The markets for these property investments and regulated surrender value or maturity values are set with instruments can become illiquid, and issues relating to reference to the interest rate environment prevailing at the time counterparty credit ratings and other factors may increase of policy issue.
This is due to the duration and uncertainty of the pricing and valuation uncertainties.
We are indirectly exposed to liability cash flows and the lack of sufficient assets of suitable property risk through our UK commercial finance lending.
This results in a residual asset liability mismatch risk Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect that can be managed but not eliminated.
In addition, our our results of operations and financial condition.
estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate for We operate internationally and are exposed to foreign currency other reasons, such as varying mortality, morbidity or general exchange risk arising from fluctuations in exchange rates of insurance claims, and we may be forced to liquidate investments various currencies.
For the year ended 31 December 2014, more prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the liability.
Such a than half of our premium income from continuing operations loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of arose in currencies other than sterling, and our net assets were operations and financial condition.
denominated in a variety of currencies, of which the largest are Changes in short or long term inflation may cause the euro, sterling and Canadian dollar.
In managing our foreign currency exposures, we do not hedge revenues as these are policyholders to surrender their contracts, increase the size of our claims payments and expenses and reduce the value of substantially retained locally to support the growth of the our investments, which could adversely affect our results of business and meet local regulatory and market requirements.
Nevertheless, the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on local We are subject to inflation risk through our holdings of fixed operating results could lead to significant fluctuations in our interest and other investments and as a result of the potential consolidated financial statements upon translation of the results for the cost of claims and expenses to rise faster than into sterling.
Although we take certain actions to address this anticipated in our pricing or reserving.
Changes in inflation risk, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially could also affect the value perceived to be offered by our adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions policies and so adversely affect persistency levels.
or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation.
Any adverse foreign Falls in equity or property prices could have an adverse currency exchange fluctuation may also have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio and impact on our results effect on our regulatory capital surplus based on the EU of operations and shareholders equity.
Insurance Groups Directive and under the Individual Capital We are subject to equity and property price risk due to holdings Assessment required by the PRA in the UK.
of equities and investment properties in a variety of locations worldwide.
Downturns in equity markets will depress equity Market fluctuations may cause the value of options and prices and have a negative impact on our capital position in that guarantees embedded in some of our life insurance products unrealised losses in our net investment portfolio will increase, to exceed the value of the assets backing their reserves, and our defined benefit pension scheme surplus deficit will which could adversely affect our results of operations or reduce increase as the market value of scheme assets invested in financial condition.
As a normal part of their operating activities, various Group Downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a companies have given guarantees and options, including material adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our interest rate and investment return guarantees, in respect of unit-linked, participating and fund management business.
The certain long-term insurance and fund management products.
In unit-linked and fund management business depends on fees providing these guarantees and options, our capital position is related primarily to the value of assets under management and sensitive to fluctuations in financial variables, including foreign would therefore be reduced by declines in equity and property currency exchange rates, interest rates, property values and markets.
Profit could also be reduced as a result of current equity prices.
