| 30 308 8 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Shareholder information continued appropriate for such business development changes, taking into During the integration period following admission to the Official account legal, regulatory, operational, capital and other List of Avivas new ordinary shares being issued in connection requirements.
The implementation of any strategy, changes in with the Proposed Acquisition, the enlarged Group may not be strategy, adoption of any new strategy and or entry into new in a position to acquire other insurance and or asset markets could entail significant changes in our business which management related targets that it might otherwise have may entail higher levels of risk or could adversely affect the sought to acquire.
In view of the demands the integration results of operations, the financial condition and or the credit process may have on management time, it may also and financial strength ratings of the Group.
cause a delay in other projects currently contemplated by the We may be unable to execute, or may encounter difficulties Aviva Group and the Friends Life Group.
or delays in successfully executing, our business and strategic Under any of these circumstances, the business growth goals which are subject to the risks set out herein and other opportunities, overhead functions consolidation benefits, factors that are currently unforeseen and which may be beyond purchasing and distribution benefits and other synergies their control.
Failure to achieve any or all strategic goals, or the anticipated by Aviva and Friends Life to result from the Proposed encounter of undue delay or unforeseen costs in implementing Acquisition, not yet completed, may not be achieved as such goals, could adversely affect our results of operations and expected, or at all, or may be delayed materially.
To the extent financial condition, as well as our reputation and standing in the that the enlarged Group incurs higher integration costs or marketplace.
achieves lower synergy benefits than expected, its results of operations, financial condition and or prospects, and the price If the Proposed Acquisition is completed, the Groups success of new ordinary shares being issued in connection with the will be dependent upon its ability to integrate the two Proposed Acquisition, may be adversely affected.
businesses: there will be numerous challenges associated with the integration and the synergies expected from the Brand and reputation risks relating to Avivas business Proposed Acquisition may not be fully achieved.
We are rated by several rating agencies, and a decline in any If the Proposed Acquisition is completed, the current operations of these ratings could affect our standing among customers, of the Aviva Group and the Friends Life Group will be integrated broker-dealers, agents, wholesalers and other distributors of to form the combined operations of an enlarged Aviva Group our products and services and cause our sales and earnings to over a period of two to three years.
To the extent that the decrease.
A rating downgrade, or the perceived potential for such a enlarged Group is unable to efficiently integrate the operations, realise cost reductions, transfer existing Friends Life Group asset downgrade, of Aviva plc or any of our rated insurance subsidiaries may, among other things, materially increase the management contracts to Aviva Investors, retain qualified personnel or customers and avoid unforeseen costs or delay, number of policy surrenders and withdrawals by policyholders of cash values from their policies.
The outcome of such activities there may be an adverse effect on the business, results of operations and or the financial condition of the enlarged Group.
may be cash payments requiring the sale of invested assets, including illiquid assets, at a price that may result in realised While Aviva believes that the costs and synergies expected to arise from the Proposed Acquisition have been reasonably investment losses.
These cash payments to policyholders would result in a decrease in total invested assets and a decrease in net estimated, unanticipated events or liabilities may arise which result in a delay or reduction in the benefits derived from the income.
Among other things, early withdrawals may also cause us to accelerate amortisation of policy acquisition costs, which transaction, or in costs significantly in excess of those estimated.
The integration of the Aviva Group and the Friends Life Group would reduce net income.
A rating downgrade may also impact sales volumes, particularly in Canada, where there is more focus will be supported by a strong management team with experience of large integration processes.
However, no by brokers on ratings when evaluating similar products.
The ratings provided by AM Best and Standard & Poors S&P are assurance can be given that the integration process will deliver all or substantially all of the expected benefits or realise such considered to be the most important for distribution in Canada, and a downgrade could lead to a significant loss of sales.
If the Proposed Acquisition is completed, the enlarged significant rating downgrade may also increase our cost of borrowing or limit our access to some forms of financing.
Group will encounter numerous integration challenges as a consequence thereof.
In particular, following completion, the With regard to the impact of the Proposed Acquisition of Friends Life Group on our ratings, both S&P and Moodys enlarged Groups management and resources may be diverted from its core business activity of administering the enlarged affirmed Avivas ratings and outlooks at their current levels on 21 November 2014 and 2 December 2014 respectively businesses due to personnel being required to assist in the integration process.
The integration process may lead to an indicating that the Proposed Acquisition of Friends Life Group would not immediately impact Avivas ratings, while AM Best increase in the level of administrative errors.
A decline in the service standards of the enlarged Group may result in an placed Avivas rating Under Review with Developing Implications indicating that the rating could be either positively increase in customer complaints and customer and or regulatory actions, which may lead to reputational damage and the loss of or negatively impacted.
Therefore, we are not aware of any specific possibility of a downgrade from any agency at present.
customers and or distributors by the enlarged Group and have an adverse impact on financial performance and condition.
Given the nature of the Proposed Acquisition, a downgrade would not be expected to impact the availability of finance Furthermore, whether as a result of a decision or action taken by a regulator with jurisdiction over the enlarged Groups directly.
Furthermore, neither Avivas issued debt instruments nor its revolving credit facilities contain restrictive covenants or business or otherwise, it may not prove possible to achieve the expected level of synergy benefits on integration of the other provisions that might be breached or triggered by rating downgrades.
Accordingly, rating agency downgrades would not businesses of the Aviva Group and the Friends Life Group on time or at all and or the cost of delivering such benefits may be expected to have a materially adverse impact on our existing financing arrangements.
There will inevitably be a cost involved in revising the current systems and structures of the enlarged Group if the Proposed Acquisition is completed.
There is a risk that these costs could exceed current estimates, which would adversely affect anticipated integration benefits.
