Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 2 299 99 investments or maintain additional capital in respect of such Risks relating to our business holdings: ix an increase in technical provisions and capital requirements in response to market-related stress tests: and x a You should carefully review the following risk factors requirement to hold a larger proportion of liquid assets in order together with other information contained in this to off-set the impact of a reduction in market liquidity on a Annual Report before making an investment decision companys ability to meet payment obligations.
relating to our ordinary shares or ADSs.
Our business, The interdependence of global financial institutions means that the failure of a sufficiently large and influential financial financial position, results of our operations and cash institution could materially disrupt global securities markets or flow could be materially affected by any of these risks, clearance and settlement systems in the markets.
This could the trading price of our ordinary shares or ADSs could cause severe market decline or volatility.
Such a failure could decline due to any of these risks and investors may also lead to a chain of defaults by counterparties that could lose part or all of their investment.
materially adversely affect the Group.
This risk, known as systemic risk, could adversely impact our future product sales Ongoing difficult conditions in the global financial markets as a result of reduced confidence in the financial services and the economy generally may adversely affect our business industry.
It could also adversely impact our results because of and results of operations, and these conditions may continue.
market declines and write-downs of assets.
Our results of operations are materially affected by uncertainty in the worldwide financial markets and macro-economic As a global business, we are exposed to various local conditions generally.
A wide variety of factors, including political, regulatory and economic conditions, business risks concerns over slowing growth, high sovereign debt within, and and challenges which may affect the demand for the our to a lesser degree outside, the eurozone, the stability and products and services, the value of the our investment portfolios and the credit quality of local counterparties.
solvency of financial institutions, longer-term low interest rates in developed markets, inflationary threats as well as geopolitical We offer our products and services in Europe including the United Kingdom UK, North America and the Asia Pacific issues in, and emanating from, the Middle East, Russia, Ukraine and North Africa, have contributed to increased volatility in the region through wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures, companies in which we hold non-controlling financial markets in recent years and have diminished growth expectations for the global economy going forward.
Global equity stakes, agents and independent contractors.
Our international operations expose us to different local political, fixed income markets continue to experience periods of both volatility and limited market liquidity, which have affected a regulatory, business and financial risks and challenges which may affect the demand for the our products and services, the broad range of asset classes and sectors.
Factors relating to general economic conditions such as value of our investment portfolio, the required levels of capital and surplus, and the credit quality of local counterparties.
These consumer spending, business investment, government spending, exchange rates and commodity prices uncertainty risks include, for example, political, social or economic instability in countries in which we operate, discriminatory regulation, over the United Kingdoms continued membership of and influence in the European Union EU, the volatility and credit risks of our counterparties, lack of local business experience in certain markets, risks associated with exposure to strength of both debt and equity markets, and inflation, all affect the profitability of our business.
In a sustained economic insurance industry insolvencies through policyholder guarantee funds or similar mechanisms set up in markets in which we are phase of low growth and high public debt, characterised by higher unemployment, lower household income, lower present and, in certain cases, risks associated with the potential incompatibility with foreign partners, especially in countries in corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for financial and insurance which we are conducting business through entities which we do not control.
Some of our international insurance operations are, products could be adversely affected.
In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims or surrenders of and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened.
Our overall success as a global policies or claims of mis-selling.
Any potential material adverse effect will also be dependent upon customer behaviour and business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in different economic, social and political conditions.
As a result of these market exposures, our financial position Credit risks relating to Avivas business and results of operations may be subject to significant volatility, Market developments and government actions regarding the and there can be no assurance as to the effects of this volatility, sovereign debt crisis in Europe, particularly in Greece, Cyprus, particularly if it is prolonged, on our financial position or results Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, could have a material of operations.
Such effects may include, inter alia: i a general adverse effect on our results of operations, financial reduction in business activity and market volumes which affects condition and liquidity.
fees, commissions and margins from customer-driven The continued uncertainty over the outcome of various EU and transactions and revenues, and from sales of insurance international financial support programmes, and the possibility products: ii market downturns which are likely to reduce the that other EU member states may experience similar financial volume and valuations of assets managed on behalf of clients, pressures, could further disrupt global markets.
In particular, this thereby reducing asset-based and performance-based fees: crisis has disrupted, and could further disrupt, equity and fixed iii reduced market liquidity, limiting trading and arbitrage income markets, and has resulted in volatile bond yields on the opportunities and presenting impediments for managing risks, sovereign debt of EU members.
impacting both trading income and performance-based fees: The issues arising out of the current sovereign debt crisis iv a reduced value in assets held for our own account as may transcend Europe, cause investors to lose confidence in the trading positions could continue to fall in value: v increased safety and soundness of European financial institutions and the impairments and defaults on credit exposures and on trading stability of European member economies, and likewise affect UK and investment positions, which losses may be exacerbated by and U. S. based financial institutions, the stability of the global falling collateral values: vi increased collateral requirements financial markets and any economic recovery.
We hold under derivative and other financial instruments: vii increased investments in both UK and non-UK securities.
costs of hedging against market risks such as equity or interest If an EU member state were to default on our obligations or rate exposure: viii pressure to reduce equity and or debt to seek to leave the eurozone, or if the eurozone were broken
