| 3 302 02 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Shareholder information continued Interest rate guaranteed returns, such as those available on against the securities on loan does not decline in value or become guaranteed annuity options GAOs, are sensitive to interest illiquid and that our nature and value complies with regulatory rates falling below the guaranteed level.
Other guarantees, such requirements and investment requirements: ii the potential that a as maturity value guarantees and guarantees in relation to borrower defaults or does not return a loaned security on a timely minimum rates of return, are sensitive to fluctuations in the basis: and iii errors in the settlement of securities, daily mark-toinvestment return below the level assumed when the guarantee market valuations and collateral collection.
The failure of our fund was made.
management controls to mitigate these risks could result in Periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity financial losses for us and third party clients that participate in our markets, increased equity volatility or reduced interest rates securities lending programmes.
could result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy Liquidity risks relating to Avivas business benefit or policyholder account balance liabilities associated Adverse capital and credit market conditions may adversely with such products, resulting in a reduction to net income.
We affect our financial flexibility in addressing liquidity needs, as use reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to well as access to and the cost of capital which could mitigate some of the liability exposure and the volatility of net adversely affect our results of operations or financial income associated with these liabilities, and while we believe condition.
that these and other actions mitigate the risks related to these At Group level, we need some of our invested assets to be liquid benefit, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefit in the event to pay our operating expenses, taxes, interest on our debt, that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or dividends on our capital stock and to repay maturing debt.
an operational level we also need liquidity to meet insurance We are also subject to the risk that the cost of hedging claims.
Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail these guaranteed minimum benefit increases, resulting in a our operations and our business would suffer.
The principal reduction to net income.
In addition, we are subject to the risk sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity that unanticipated policyholder behaviour or mortality, considerations, deposit funds and cash flow from our combined with adverse market events, produces economic investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques assets that are readily convertible into cash.
These, individually or collectively, may have a in normal markets also include a variety of short and long-term material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial condition or liquidity.
paper, medium and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt, securities, capital securities and stockholders equity.
Asset management risks relating to Avivas business We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity such as Our fund management business may be affected by the poor privately placed fixed-maturity securities, and unlisted equities.
investment performance of the funds we manage The valuations of such assets are based on inputs which are not Poor investment returns in our investment management business, directly observable in the market.
The inputs used reflect the due either to general market conditions or underperformance assumptions that we consider market participants would relative to competitors or to benchmarks by funds or accounts normally use based on a combination of independent third party that we manage, may adversely affect our ability to retain existing evidence and internally developed models, intended to be assets and to attract new clients or additional assets from existing calibrated to market observable data where possible.
The ability of our investment team to deliver strong known as Level 3 asset classes in our fair value hierarchy and investment performance depends in large part on our ability to represented 17% of total financial assets and investment identify appropriate investment opportunities in which to invest properties held at fair value as of 31 December 2014.
If the investment team for any of our strategies is been the case across the industry, even some higher-quality unable to identify sufficient appropriate investment opportunities assets have been more illiquid as a result of the recent for existing and new client assets on a timely basis, the investment challenging market conditions.
performance of the strategy could be adversely affected.
The risk The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of that sufficient appropriate investment opportunities may be investments, our investments in the asset classes described in unavailable is influenced by a number of factors, including general the paragraph above and, at times, our higher-quality, generally market conditions.
This could adversely affect the management liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current and incentive fees that we earn on assets under management.
market price for the asset.
If we were forced to sell certain of Failure to comply with client contractual requirements and or our assets in the current market, there can be no certainty that guidelines could result in damage awards against us and our we would be able to sell them for the prices at which we have fund management operations and loss of revenues due to recorded them and we may be forced to sell them at client terminations.
When clients retain us to manage assets on their behalf, we We may refinance existing financing arrangements and may, must comply with contractual obligations and guidelines agreed in exceptional circumstances, need to seek additional financing with such clients in the provision of our services.
A failure to to supplement liquidity available from internal resources.
The comply with these guidelines or contractual requirements could availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of result in damage to our reputation or in our clients seeking to factors such as market conditions, the general availability of recover losses, withdrawing their funds or terminating their credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services contracts, any of which could cause our revenues and earnings industry and the markets perception of our financial condition.
Disruptions and uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets, as has been experienced in the last few years, in Failure to manage risks in operating securities lending of particular throughout the eurozone, may exert downward Group and third party client assets could adversely affect our pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain results of operations and financial condition and for our fund issuers and, if access to liquidity is constrained for a prolonged management operations lead to a loss of clients and a decline period of time, may limit our access to capital required to in revenues and liquidity.
operate and grow our business at a sustainable cost.
Although In operating securities lending of Group and third party client we do not currently anticipate any severe disruptions to the assets, our fund management operations must manage risks capital and credit markets, there can be no assurance that any associated with i ensuring that the value of the collateral held
