Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 3 307 07 potential sale of a number of non-core businesses.
These adversely affect our short term cash flows until the medium to changes are expected to reduce the operational costs of the long term strategic benefits of such disposals are realised, as Group and allow resources to be re-deployed in more capital well as gives rise to a corresponding potential impact on capital efficient businesses.
There is a risk that these expected benefits requirements and liquidity.
Preparation of businesses for may not be realised.
These changes may reduce operating profit disposal, and the disposal process more generally, may divert in the short-term and will lead to changes in the geographical management time and attention away from the operation of and product risk profile of the Group.
The execution risk the business in the ordinary course and may be disruptive to the including the risks relating to securing the regulatory approvals business.
We retain a residual exposure in respect of disposed necessary to complete our planned business disposals, could business as a result of any representations, warranties or result in the failure to achieve cost savings, the loss of key staff, indemnities provided.
and disruption to core business activities and governance The Proposed Acquisition may be delayed or fail to complete structures which could have a material adverse effect on our as it is subject to a number of conditions which may not be business, results of operations and financial condition.
Alternatively a third party may be able to Execution risk is inherent in the completion of all strategic obtain a large enough shareholding in either Aviva or Friends transactions.
Such risks include uncertainty in relation to Life Group to delay or prevent completion.
obtaining the required regulatory approvals on satisfactory Completion of the Proposed Acquisition is conditional upon, terms for the change of control envisaged by such transactions.
among other things, obtaining the relevant regulatory Such execution risk gives rise to a corresponding potential clearances from the PRA, FCA and other regulators: obtaining impact on capital requirements and liquidity.
clearances from appropriate competition authorities: the approval of the scheme of arrangement proposed to be made We are reliant on IT systems and there are risks that our under Part VIII of the Guernsey Company Law the Scheme current and legacy systems cannot be made to adapt to by a majority in number of the qualifying Friends Life growth in the business or new styles of doing business.
Key IT initiatives may not deliver what is required either on time shareholders or the relevant class or classes thereof, if applicable present and voting, either in person or by proxy, at or within budget or provide the performance levels required to support the current and future needs of the business.
Significant the Court Meeting representing not less than 75% in value of the eligible Friends Life shares voted by such qualifying Friends resources are devoted to maintaining and developing IT systems to keep pace with developments within the insurance and fund Life shareholders: all resolutions necessary to approve and implement the Scheme and to approve certain related matters management industries and to maintain service levels and availability at acceptable levels.
Failure to do so could result in being duly passed by the requisite majority or majorities at any General Meeting of Friends Life or at any adjournment of that the inability to gather information for pricing, underwriting and reserving, to attract and retain customers or meet regulatory meeting: the sanction of the Scheme with or without modification but subject to any such modification being requirements or only to do so at excessive cost.
acceptable to us and Friends Life by the Court: and the passing Risk relating to the execution of our strategy, and corporate of the required resolutions at the General Meeting of Aviva.
disposals and acquisitions, including specifically the Proposed Although the Directors of Aviva believe that the clearances Acquisition should be forthcoming, it is possible that the parties may not Our acquisitions, disposals and other corporate transactions obtain these clearances, or that they may not be obtainable may not realise expected benefits and may divert within a timescale acceptable to the parties, or that they may management attention and other resources and involve risks only be obtained subject to certain conditions or undertakings of undisclosed liabilities and integration or separation issues.
which may not be acceptable to the parties.
In the event that In past years, we have completed a number of acquisitions.
On the FCA, PRA or any other required clearance is not obtained on 2 December 2014 we announced our proposal, yet to be terms reasonably satisfactory to us or if any other condition is completed, to acquire Friends Life Group with newly issued not fulfilled or waived, the Proposed Acquisition may not be ordinary shares of Aviva plc, and we may undertake further completed.
Further, it is possible that the FCA, the PRA or other acquisitions in the future.
Growth by acquisition involves risks overseas regulators may attach conditions to their approval of that could adversely affect our operating results, including the the Proposed Acquisition, which might delay or prevent the substantial amount of management time and other resources realisation of certain synergies identified by the parties or that may be diverted from operations to pursue and complete otherwise impact the our strategy and operations.
If this were to acquisitions, or risks of undisclosed liabilities or integration or happen it is possible that our business, results of operations separation issues.
The integration of any future acquisition may and or financial condition may be materially adversely affected.
not be successful or in line with our expectations and any Both the Group and Friends Life are listed companies whose acquired businesses may fail to achieve, in the near or long ordinary shares are freely traded on the London Stock Exchange.
term, the financial results projected or the strategic objectives of It is possible that an existing or new shareholder with a the relevant acquisition such as cost savings or synergies and, significant shareholding in either the Group or Friends Life could once acquired, may continue to divert further management use, or could threaten to use, its shareholding to vote against attention and resources or necessitate changes in group the Proposed Acquisition when shareholder consent is sought.
The inability to realise expected benefits from such Such an action could materially delay or prevent the transactions may adversely affect our results of operations.
In implementation of the Scheme and therefore deprive the parties addition, we have in the past undertaken disposals of certain of some or all of the anticipated benefits of the Proposed businesses.
We may also dispose of other businesses in the future.
Any disposals are subject to execution risk and may fail to The implementation of our strategy may not proceed as materialise, and the proceeds received from them may not expected.
reflect values that management believes are achievable and or Our strategy, which may be revised from time to time, may may cause substantial accounting losses particularly if the involve carrying on business in new markets, developing disposals are done in difficult market conditions, each of which capabilities to carry out new business activities, expanding or may result in our failure to realise the anticipated benefits and reducing the scope of certain types of business activities or gains from any such disposal.
In addition, disposals of products and reorganising the Group in a manner which is businesses, which may be cash generative and profitable, may
