Risk management The following discussion may not contain Managing risk all the information that is important to effectively readers of this Annual Report.
A discussion of the Groups risk management and internal control framework can be found on page 78.
The Groups principal risks and uncertainties are outlined on pages 32 to 35.
The Risk Committee Report and the Audit Committee Report can be found on pages 79 to 85.
In addition, Note 30 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements provides additional detail regarding risk management procedures.
Overview Risk management structure The BGH Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups risk The Bank conducts its risk management activities within the management and internal control framework.
framework of its unified risk management system.
Our approach to risk is founded on a strong risk management Risk management bodies culture.
Managing risk is engrained in our everyday business The principal risk management bodies of the Bank are the: activities.
We seek to create an environment where there is Supervisory Board, Audit Committee, Risk Committee, openness and transparency in how we make decisions and Management Board, Internal Audit and Compliance departments, manage risks and where business managers own the risks and Treasury, Credit Committees, Asset and Liability Management risk management processes associated with their activities.
Committee the ALCO and Banks Legal Department.
The BGH Board determines the Groups risk appetite and monitors Supervisory Board.
The Supervisory Board is responsible for risk exposures to ensure that the nature and extent of principal risks the Banks risk philosophy and appetite, overall risk management are aligned with the Groups overall goals and strategic objectives.
approach and for approving risk strategies and principles and is The BGH Board has adopted formal policies and procedures which ultimately responsible for identifying and controlling risks.
set out the system through which risks are identified, assessed, quantified, managed and monitored.
Clearly delegated authority The Supervisory Board approves the Banks Credit Policies, levels and reporting lines have been established and comprehensive which outline credit risk control and monitoring procedures and reporting forms an integral part of our framework.
the Banks credit risk management systems and approves certain decisions which fall outside the scope of the respective authorities The BGH Risk Committee and BGH Audit Committee support the of the Credit Committees and or Management Board including BGH Board in overseeing the risk management framework, the approvals of single-borrower lending exposure exceeding internal control infrastructure, monitoring risk exposures and reviewing US$25.0 million.
The Bank Management Board presents a the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems.
comprehensive credit risk report and market risk report to the Bank Supervisory Board for their review on a quarterly basis.
The role of the Bank in the overall risk management structure Risk Committee.
Since 1 January 2014, the Risk Committee has the Management of risk is fundamental to the banking business and is an overall responsibility for advising the Supervisory Board on the Banks essential element of the Groups operations.
The main risks inherent in overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy taking into account the the Banks operations are credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk including current and prospective macroeconomic and financial environment.
currency and foreign exchange rate risks, operational risk and legal risk.
The Risk Committee oversees the risk exposures of the Bank and The following is a description of the Banks risk management policies advises the Supervisory Board on risk strategy.
The Risk Committee and procedures in respect to those risks.
Business risks such as reviews regularly and approves the parameters used by the Bank to changes in the environment, technology and industry are monitored assess risk and the adopted methodology and reviews the Banks through the Groups strategic planning process.
capability to identify and manage new risk types.
The Risk Committee also sets a standard for the accurate and timely monitoring of large The Banks risk management system is based on the principle of exposures and certain risk types of critical importance, including, but continually assessing risk throughout the life of any operation and not limited to credit risk, market risk and operational risk.
includes such stages as: Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has overall responsibility risk identification: for implementing principles, frameworks, policies and limits in quality and quantity assessment of a particular risk: accordance with the Banks risk management strategy related to determination of an acceptable risk level: the general control environment, manual and application controls, placement of authority limits and creation of reserves: risks of intentional or unintentional misstatements, risk of fraud or use of collateral: misappropriation of assets, information security, anti-money ongoing monitoring and control allowing efficient adjustments laundering, information technology risks, etc.
The Bank Audit in case of any negative changes in the conditions on which Committee facilitates the activities of the internal audit and external the preliminary risk assessment was made: and auditors of the Bank.
The Bank Audit Committee is elected and analysis of efficiency of the risk management system.
directly monitored by the Bank Supervisory Board.
36 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information Risk management bodies of Bank of Georgia Risk Committee Audit Committee Supervisory Board of Bank of Georgia Internal Audit Credit Management Asset and Liabilities Committees Board Management Committee ALCO Credit Risk Operational Risk Treasury Anti-Money Legal Quantitative Risk Management Management Laundering Management and Risk Analytics As of 1 January 2014.
The Management Board has overall As part of its auditing procedures, the Bank Internal Audit responsibility for the Banks asset, liability and risk management Department is responsible for the following: activities, policies and procedures.
In order to effectively implement the risk management system, the Management Board delegates identifying and assessing potential risks regarding the Banks individual risk management functions to each of the various operations: decision-making and execution bodies within the Bank.
reviewing the adequacy of the existing controls established in order to ensure compliance with the Banks policies, plans, Internal Audit Department.
The Internal Audit Department is procedures and business objectives, as well as to current responsible for the annual audit of the Banks risk management, legislation and regulation and professional norms and ethics: internal control and corporate governance processes, with the aim developing internal auditing standards and methodologies: of reducing the levels of operational and other risks, auditing the carrying out planned and random inspections of the Banks Banks internal control systems, and detecting any infringements branches and subdivisions and auditing its subsidiaries: or errors on the part of the Banks departments and divisions.
It analysing the quality of the Banks products: examines both the adequacy of and the Banks compliance with reviewing the reliability of the Banks information technology those procedures.
The Bank Internal Audit Department discusses systems in accordance with a predetermined schedule: the results of all assessments with management, and reports its assessing the reliability and security of financial information: findings and recommendations to the Bank Audit Committee.
monitoring the Banks internal controls and reporting procedures: The Bank Internal Audit Department is independent of the Bank participating in external audits and inspections by the NBG: Management Board.
The Head of the Bank Internal Audit Department making recommendations to management and the Audit is appointed by the Bank Supervisory Board and reports directly to Committee on the basis of external and internal audits to the Bank Audit Committee.
The Bank Internal Audit Department has improve internal controls: 13 employees.
The Banks Internal Audit Department audits all of the monitoring the compliance of the Bank with the NBG Banks subsidiaries, apart from BNB and Medical Corporation EVEX regulations: and which have their own internal audit departments.
monitoring the implementation of auditors recommendations.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 37 Risk management continued Treasury.
Treasury is responsible for managing the Banks The third tier Micro and SME Credit Committee approves loans assets and liabilities and its overall financial structure and is resulting in the Banks overall exposure to a borrower in the range also primarily responsible for managing funding and liquidity of US$100,000 to US$1,200,000.
The committee is chaired by risks of the Bank.
the Risk Manager, with mandatory participation from either the Head of the Credit Risk Analysis Unit or the Head of the Credit Credit Committees.
The Bank has three credit committees Risk Management Department or his or her deputy for exposures together, the Credit Committees, each one supervising and exceeding US$500,000.
managing the Banks credit risks in respect of retail and investment management loans, corporate loans and counterparty loans.
The Problem Assets Committee is three committees are: the Reail Banking Committee, the Corporate chaired by one of the following: 1 the heads of the Problem Loan Banking Credit Committee and the Financial and Governmental Management Department: 2 the heads of the Risk departments, Counterparty Risk management Committee FGCRMC, established of which there are two: 3 the Deputy CEO Chief Risk Officer : or in April 2014.
The purpose of FGCRMC is to manage, monitor and 4 the Chief Executive Officer, depending on the level of exposure.
control counterparty risk of financial and governmental counterparties The Problem Loan Recovery Department manages the Banks of Bank of Georgia.
Each Credit Committee approves individual exposures to problem loans and reports to the Deputy CEO Chief loan transactions.
The Deputy CEO Chief Risk Officer also chairs the committee which oversees loans which are the subject of litigation.
Each Credit Committee is comprised of tiers of subcommittees.
The FGCRMC comprises two tiers of subcommittees.
Committee consists The Corporate Recovery Committee is chaired by the Deputy of five members Chief Risk Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Head CEO Chief Risk Officer and is responsible for monitoring all of Quantitative Risk Management, Head of Treasury, Head of Trade of the Banks exposures to loans that are being managed by Finance, and a majority of votes is enough for approval.
If the potential the Corporate Recovery Department.
The Corporate Recovery exposure exceeds $10,000,000, then the decision is deferred to the Department reports to the Deputy CEO Corporate Banking.
The Credit Committee for retail loans comprises four tiers of subcommittees.
For risk management Asset and Liability Management Committee ALCO.
The purposes, investment management loans are classified as retail loans.
ALCO is the core risk management body that establishes policies The Credit Committee for corporate loans comprises three tiers of and guidelines with respect to capital adequacy, market risks and subcommittees.
Participation of the CEO is required for exposures respective limits, funding liquidity risk and respective limits, interest exceeding US$8.0 million.
All exposures to single group borrowers rate and prepayment risks and respective limits, money market over US$25.0 million require approval by the Supervisory Board.
The general terms and credit exposure limits, designs and implements first and second tier subcommittees of each of the Credit Committees respective risk management and stress testing models in practice meet on an as-needed basis, typically two to three times per week.
and regularly monitors compliance with the pre-set risk limits, and Each of the subcommittees of the Credit Committees makes its approves treasury deals with non-standard terms.
Specifically, ALCO: decisions by a majority vote of its respective members.
sets money-market credit exposure lending limits: Credit Committee tiers of subcommittees for Retail sets open currency position limits with respect to overnight and Corporate Banking loans and intraday positions: establishes stop-loss limits for foreign currency operations Approval limit for Corporate and securities: Subcommittee Chair Banking loans USD monitors compliance with the established risk management Tier I Risk Manager of the relevant Less than US$500,000 for models for foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and funding Credit Risk Management existing and new borrowers liquidity risk: Tier II Head of the Credit Risk Between US$500,000 and sets ranges of interest rates for different maturities at which Analysis unit US$1.5 million for existing the Bank may place its liquid assets and attracts funding: and and new borrowers reviews different stress tests and capital adequacy models Tier III CEO CRO Greater than US$1.5 million for prepared by the Finance Department.
existing and new borrowers The ALCO is chaired by the CEO and sits at any time deemed Approval limit for Retail Subcommittee Chair Banking loans USD necessary, with decisions made by a majority vote of its members.
ALCO members include the CEO, Deputy CEO Finance, Deputy CEO, Tier I Risk Manager of the relevant Less than US$150,000 Credit Risk Management Chief Risk Officer, Deputy CEO Corporate Banking, Deputy CEO, Retail Banking, Deputy CEO, Investment Management, the Head of Tier II Deputy Head of Credit Risk Between US$150,000 and the Finance Department, the Head of the Treasury Department and Management department US$300,000 for retail loans the Head of the Funding Department.
The ALCO reviews financial Tier III Director of the Credit Risk Between US$300,000 reports and indices including the Banks limits ratios, balance sheet, Management department and US$2.0 million statement of operations, maturity gap, interest rate gap, currency gap, Tier IV CEO CRO Greater than US$2.0 million foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and funding liquidity risk reports, total cash flow analyses, customer cash flow analysis, and Furthermore, the Credit Committee for Micro and SME loans concentration risk analysis, for the past periods as well as future comprises three tiers of subcommittees, and falls under the Credit projections and forecasts, other financial analysis and further growth Committee for retail loans.
The first tier Micro and SME Credit projections on a monthly basis.
Committee is chaired by the head of the group of the Micro and SME Lending Department and approves loans resulting in the Banks Regulatory capital requirements in Georgia are set by NBG and overall exposure to a borrower of up to US$15,000.
A loan officer, are applied to the Bank, on a stand-alone basis.
NBG requires the who submits a loan application project to the Credit Committee, does Bank to maintain a minimum Total Capital Adequacy ratio of 12% of not have right to vote for the approval of the loan.
The second tier risk-weighted assets and a minimum Tier I Capital Adequacy ratio Micro and SME Credit Committee is chaired by the Micro and SME of 8% of risk-weighted assets, both computed based on the Banks Department representative head of the Micro and SME Department, stand-alone special purpose financial statements prepared in deputy head of department, coordinator and approves loans resulting accordance with NBG regulations and pronouncements.
On in the Banks overall exposure to a borrower up to US$100,000.
30 June 2014, the NBG introduced new regulation aimed at 38 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information replacing its old regulation, which was developed independently Bodies implementing risk management system from international committees and organisations and was not The Banks risk management system is implemented by the Finance based on Basel Accord.
The new capital regulation is based on the Department, Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Analytics Basel Accord 2 3, with material regulatory discretions applied by Department, Treasury, Credit Risk Management, Operational Risk the NBG.
Pillar 1 requirements of the new regulation came into Management and Control, Legal, AML Compliance and Security force on 30 June 2014.
The period starting 30 June 2014 through departments and other departments.
The Reporting and Analysis 31 December 2017 was declared as a transition period.
During the Unit reports to the Head of the Finance Department.
The Finance transition period the Bank will be required to comply with both old Department and the Treasury Department report to the Deputy and new capital regulations of the NBG.
Pillar II of the Basel Accord CEO Finance.
The Credit Risk Management CB Portfolio Analysis, 2 3, which entails implementation of the Internal Capital Adequacy Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Analytics Department Process ICAAP, is expected to be introduced in 2015.
The old and Operational Risk Management and Control departments regulation will be completely phased out by 1st January 2018. report to the Deputy CEO Chief Risk Officer and the Credit Risk Management Retail Banking Portfolio Analysis Department reports ALCO is the key governing body for the capital adequacy management to the Deputy CEO Retail Banking.
The Legal Department, AML as well as for the respective risks identification and management.
ALCO Compliance Department and Problem Loan Recovery Department establishes limits and reviews actual performance over those limits for report to the Deputy CEO Legal.
both NBG as well as Basel I capital adequacy regulations.
The Finance Department is in charge of regular monthly monitoring and reporting The Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Analytics Department, over NBG and Basel I capital adequacy compliance with original in coordination with the Treasury, implements the Banks market pronouncements as well as with ALCO policies.
Capital adequacy risk policies by ensuring compliance with established open management is an integral part of the Banks actual monthly reporting currency position limits, counterparty limits, VAR limits on possible as well as the Banks annual and semi-annual budget approval and losses and the interest rate policy set by the ALCO.
The Finance Department prepares NBG and Basel I and Basel II III capital adequacy actual reports as well as The Treasury Department manages foreign currency exchange, money their forecasts and budgets, as well as different stress scenarios for market, securities portfolio and derivatives operations and monitors both regulations, while ALCO and the Management Board regularly compliance with the limits set by the ALCO for these operations.
The review them, identify risks, issue recommendations or propose Treasury Department is also responsible for management of short-term amendment measures.
liquidity and treasury cash flow and monitors the volumes of cash in the Banks ATMs and at its service centres.
The Legal Departments principal purposes are to ensure that the Banks activities conform to applicable The Credit Risk Management department manages credit risks legislation and to minimise losses from the materialisation of legal with respect to particular borrowers and assesses overall loan risks.
The Legal Department is responsible for the application portfolio risks.
It is responsible for ensuring compliance with the and development of mechanisms for identifying legal risks in the Banks Credit Policies, management of the quality of the Banks Banks activities in a timely manner, the investigation of the Banks loan portfolio and filing and loan administration.
activities in order to identify any legal risks, the planning and implementation of all necessary actions for the elimination of The Operational Risk Management and Control Department identified legal risks, participation in legal proceedings on behalf identifies and assesses operational risk categories within the of the Bank where necessary and the investigation of possibilities Banks processes and operations.
It also detects critical risk areas for increasing the effectiveness of the Banks legal documentation or groups of operations with an increased risk level and develops and its implementation in the Banks daily activities.
The Legal internal control procedures to address these risks, through among Department is also responsible for providing legal support to other things business-process optimisation schemes, including structural units of the Bank and or its subsidiaries.
document circulation, information streams, distribution of functions, permissions and responsibility.
The Banks AML Compliance Department is responsible for the implementation of The Legal Department monitors all changes in relevant laws and the Banks AML programme including the development of AML regulations, and ensures that those changes are properly reflected policies and procedures, transaction monitoring and reporting and in the Banks procedures, instructions, manuals, templates and employee training throughout the Bank and its subsidiaries.
It also disseminates information on AML programme is based on recommendations and requirements legislative changes to all relevant departments within the Bank.
The of international organisations including FATF and OFAC, as well as Legal Department also participates in drafting laws and regulatory local regulations.
The Banks Internal Audit Department makes documents upon request of legislators and regulators, certain annual assessments of the Banks AML systems and provides associations and other professional bodies.
independent assurance of internal controls.
The Bank has adopted risk-based approach in its policies and The Tax Compliance Unit of the Finance Department focuses on procedures aimed at preventing money laundering and terrorist the Banks relationship with the tax authorities and provides financing, including a general anti-money laundering policy and rules practical advice and monitors tax compliance across the Group.
on counteracting money laundering and financing of individuals and legal entities engaged in terrorist activities, as well as procedures for Each of the foregoing departments is provided with policies and or reporting to the Financial Monitoring Service of Georgia FMS, a manuals that are approved by the Bank Management Board and or legal entity of public law.
The Banks risk-based approach means the Bank Supervisory Board as required.
The manuals and that it applies enhanced due diligence procedures if it determines policies include comprehensive guidance for each stage of a that there is a significant risk that particular customers are engaged transaction, including, but not limited to, manuals outlining asset in money laundering or financing terrorism.
and liability management policies, foreign exchange operations procedures, fixed income investment guidelines, Retail Banking The Bank is obliged to notify the FMS of all transactions that are operations procedures, the deposit policy and the Credit Policies.
These reports are currently filed in electronic form in an offline mode by the AML Compliance Department, the reporting process is fully automated, and is supported by the special software application.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 39 Risk management continued Risk measurement and reporting The Bank actively uses collateral to reduce its credit risks.
The Bank measures risk using a method which reflects both the expected loss likely to arise in normal circumstances and In order to avoid excessive concentrations of risks, the Bank unexpected losses, which are an estimate of the ultimate actual focuses on maintaining a diversified portfolio.
Concentrations loss based on different forecasting models.
These models use arise when a number of counterparties, or related shareholders, probabilities derived from historical experience, adjusted from are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same time to time to reflect the economic environment.
The Bank geographic region, or have similar economic features that would also runs worst case scenarios that could arise in the event cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly that extreme events, however unlikely, do, in fact, occur.
affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions.
Concentrations also involve combined, aggregate exposures Monitoring and controlling risks is primarily performed based on of large and significant credits compared to total outstanding limits established by the Bank.
These limits reflect the business balance of the respective financial instrument.
Concentrations strategy and market environment of the Bank as well as the level indicate the relative sensitivity of the Banks performance to of risk that it is willing to accept, with additional emphasis on developments affecting a particular industry or geographical selected industries.
The Bank also conducts ongoing monitoring location.
Identified concentrations of credit risks are controlled and control, allowing efficient adjustments in case of any and managed accordingly.
unexpected changes in the conditions on which the preliminary risk assessment was made.
In addition the Bank monitors and Credit risk measures the overall risk bearing capacity in relation to the Definition: Credit risk is the risk that a borrower or counterparty aggregate risk exposure across all risk types and activities.
will be unable to pay amounts in full or in part when due.
Credit risk arises mainly in the context of the Banks lending activities.
The Group maintains a management reporting system which requires the Credit Risk Management, Finance and Funding Mitigation: The general principles of the Banks credit policy are departments to prepare certain reports on a daily and monthly outlined in the Credit Policies.
The Credit Policies also outline credit basis.
On a daily basis, a statement of operations, balance sheet risk control and monitoring procedures and the Banks credit risk and treasury report which includes the Banks open foreign management systems.
The Credit Policies are reviewed annually exchange positions, cash flows, limits and balances on NOSTRO or more frequently if necessary.
As a result of these reviews, new and LORO correspondent accounts and confirmation that there procedures addressing the standards and methodology for loan has been compliance with mandatory financial ratios must be loss provisioning pursuant to IFRS requirements were implemented, provided by each department.
On a monthly basis, a report on new loan restructuring tools were introduced and the loan terms the structural liquidity gap, a report on interest rate risk, monthly were tightened.
The Bank also uses the NBGs provisioning financial statements, and a Bank Supervisory Board quarterly methodology in order to comply with NBG requirements.
report containing analysis of the Banks performance against its budget are provided.
The Bank manages its credit risk by placing limits on the amount of risk accepted with respect to individual corporate borrowers or Information compiled from all the businesses is examined groups of related borrowers, liability of insurance companies, types and processed in order to analyse, control and identify early of banking operations and by complying with the exposure limits risks.
This information is presented and explained to the established by the NBG.
The Bank monitors the market value of Management Board, and the head of each business division.
collateral, requests additional collateral in accordance with the The report includes aggregate credit exposure, liquidity ratios underlying agreement, and monitors the market value of collateral and risk profile changes.
Senior management assesses the obtained during its review of the adequacy of the allowance for the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses on a monthly loan impairment.
The Bank also mitigates its credit risk by obtaining basis.
The Bank Management Board and Supervisory Board collateral and using other security arrangements.
The exposure receive a comprehensive risk report once a quarter which is to financial institutions is managed by limits covering on and designed to provide all the necessary information to assess off-balance sheet exposures and by settlement limits with respect and draw conclusions on the Banks risk exposure.
to trading transactions such as foreign exchange contracts, etc.
Specifically tailored risk reports are prepared and distributed The Credit Committees approve individual transactions and for all levels throughout the Bank in order to ensure that all Credit Risk Management Department establish their credit risk business divisions have access to extensive, relevant and categories and provisioning rates.
The Deputy CEO Chief Risk up-to-date information.
A daily briefing is given to the Bank Officer and Credit Risk Management Department reviews the Management Board and all other relevant employees of the credit quality of the portfolio and sets provisioning rates, in Bank on the utilisation of market limits, proprietary investments consultation with the Banks CEO and Deputy CEO Finance, and liquidity, plus any other risk developments.
Risk mitigation and excessive risk concentration The Banks credit quality review process provides early As part of its overall risk management, the Bank uses derivatives identification of possible changes in the creditworthiness and other instruments to manage exposures resulting from of counterparties, including regulator collateral revisions.
changes in interest rates, foreign currencies, credit risks, Counterparty limits are established by the use of a credit risk and exposures arising from forward transactions.
While these classification system, which assigns each counterparty a risk derivatives are intended for hedging, they do not qualify for rating.
Risk ratings are subject to regular revision.
quality review process allows the Bank to assess the potential loss as a result of the risks to which it is exposed and take corrective action.
40 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information The Bank makes available to its customers guarantees letters of overdue.
If in a subsequent period the amount of the impairment loss credit which may require that the Bank make payments on their decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event behalf.
Such payments are collected from customers based on the occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously terms of the guarantee letter of credit.
They expose the Bank to recognised impairment loss is reversed by an adjusted provision similar risks to loans and these are mitigated by the same control account.
The determination of provisions for impairment losses is processes and policies.
based on an analysis of the assets at risk and reflects the amount which, in the judgement of the Banks management, is adequate to Loan approval procedures provide for losses incurred.
Provisions are made as a result of an The procedures for approving loans, monitoring loan quality individual appraisal of financial assets.
and for extending, refinancing and or restructuring existing loans are set out in the Banks Credit Policies that are approved by the Provisions are made against gross loan amounts and Supervisory Board of the Bank and or the Management Board of accrued interest.
Under the Banks internal loan loss allowance the Bank.
The Credit Committees approve individual transactions.
methodology, which is based upon IFRS requirements, the Bank The Bank evaluates Corporate Banking clients on the basis of their categorises its loan portfolio into significant and non-significant credit history, business operations, market position, management, loans.
Significant loans are defined as loans in the amount of level of shareholder support, financial condition, proposed US$150,000 or more and non-significant loans are defined as business and financing plan and on the quality of the collateral loans less than US$150,000.
The Credit Risk Management offered.
The appropriate level of the relevant Credit Committee Department makes an individual assessment of all defaulted is responsible for making the decision for loan approval based significant loans.
Non-defaulted significant loans are given a on credit memorandum, and where appropriate, Credit Risk collective assessment rate.
All loans are divided into different Managers report.
The loan approval procedures for Retail groups for example mortgage, consumer, microfinancing loans.
Banking loans depend on the type of retail lending product.
Applications for consumer loans, including credit cards and auto loans, are treated under the scoring approval procedure.
While The Bank has conservative credit approval certain loans of up to GEL 6,000 are approved by the scoring processes and underwriting criteria, all of which system, the appropriate Credit Committee will determine the amount, are intended to maintain the quality of its assets terms and conditions of other loans.
Applications for mortgage loans as its loan portfolio grows.
by Retail Banking clients are completed by the mortgage loan officer Since 2004, the Bank, jointly with certain other Georgian banks and submitted to the Credit Risk Manager, who evaluates the credit and with the Credit information Group, a provider of Credit risks and determines the amount, terms and conditions of the loan, information solutions, established JSC Credit Information Georgia which must be approved at the appropriate Credit Committee level.
CIG that serves a centralised credit bureau in Georgia.
Since In the case of microfinancing loans, officers evaluate loan applications, 2009, all the participating banks share and contribute positive prepare a project analysis and submit proposals to the appropriate and negative customer credit information with CIG.
Credit Committee which makes the final decision.
Credit Committee members have equal voting authority and decisions are approved by a simple majority of votes.
Collateral Change in loan loss provisioning methodology.
The Bank typically requires credit support or collateral as security As of 1 January 2014, the Bank introduced a new loan loss for the loans and credit facilities that it grants.
The main forms of provisioning methodology.
The new provisioning methodology credit support are guarantees and rights to claim amounts on the is based on statistical assessment of Probability of Default PD borrowers current account with the Bank or other assets.
The and Loss Given Default LGD for each of the loan type.
The main forms of collateral for corporate lending are charges over management believes that the new methodology is a refinement real estate properties, equipment, inventory and trade receivables of the existing methodology and will allow better allocation of and the main form of collateral for retail lending is a mortgage Cost of Risk between different products.
The new methodology over residential property.
In the case of corporate loans, the Bank was developed in consultation with Deloitte.
Deloitte was usually requires a personal guarantee surety from the borrowers a provider of IT solution fineVare.
Under the Banks internal guidelines, collateral should be provided where it is required to cover outstanding Additionally, management considers this to be a change in liabilities during the entire duration of a transaction.
As of significant accounting estimate.
The new methodology is more 31 December 2014, 88.1% of the Groups loans to clients were granular than the previous methodology and introduces additional collateralised.
An evaluation report of the proposed collateral is statistical analysis for determining the inputs.
As at 1 January prepared by the Asset Appraisal and Disposal Department and 2014 the Banks allowance for loan impairment under the new submitted to the appropriate Credit Committee, together with methodology was GEL 114,552,000 a difference of GEL 3,843,000 the loan application and Credit Risk Managers report.
When as compared to the allowance for loan impairment if calculated evaluating collateral, the Bank discounts the market value of based on the previous methodology which represents less than the assets to reflect the liquidation value of the collateral.
The allowance for loan impairment under the previous methodology would have been GEL 118,395,000 Measurement as at 1 January 2014.
After 1 January 2014 it was impracticable Exposure and limits are subject to annual or more frequent review.
for management to continue to estimate the allowance for loan The Banks compliance with credit risk exposure limits is monitored by impairment under the old methodology.
the Credit Risk Management Department on a continuous basis.
The Bank establishes provisions for impairment losses of financial assets on collective basis and on individual basis when there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
The Bank creates provisions by reference to the particular borrowers financial condition and the number of days the relevant loan is Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 41 Risk management continued Non-corporate loans which are overdue for more than 150 days refinancing facility.
In addition, the Bank maintains a cash deposit are written off automatically, except for mortgage loans which, obligatory reserve with the NBG, the amount of which depends since June 2009, are written off once overdue for more than 365 on the level of customer funds attracted.
Significant loans may be written-off following an assessment in line with the NBGs requirements, 15% of customer deposits in by the Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer and the Credit Risk foreign currencies were set aside as minimum reserves.
In addition, Management Department, in consultation with the Banks the Bank maintains a minimum average balance of 10% of its CEO and Deputy CEO, Finance.
customers deposits in Georgian Lari at its correspondent account at the NBG.
For wholesale funding, the NBG requires the Bank to set Liquidity risk aside 15% of its unsubordinated foreign currency wholesale funding Definition: Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank will be unable to for borrowings with a remaining maturity of less than one year, 5% meet its payment obligations when they fall due under normal and for borrowings with a remaining maturity of one to two years and stress circumstances.
10% of its unsubordinated Georgian Lari wholesale funding for borrowings with a remaining maturity of less than one year.
Monitoring: Liquidity risk is managed through the ALCO-approved liquidity framework.
Treasury manages liquidity on a daily basis.
In Funding: In the Georgian marketplace, the majority of working order to manage liquidity risk, it performs daily monitoring of future capital loans are short term and granted with the expectation of expected cash flows on customers and banking operations, which renewal at maturity.
As such, the ultimate maturity of assets may is a part of the assets liabilities management process.
The Finance be different from the analysis presented elsewhere.
In addition, department prepares and submits monthly reports to the ALCO.
the maturity gap analysis does not reflect the historical stability The ALCO monitors the proportion of maturing funds available to of current accounts.
meet deposit withdrawals and the amounts of inter-bank and other borrowing facilities that should be in place to cover withdrawals at The Banks principal sources of liquidity are as follows: unexpected levels of demand.
deposits: The liquidity risk management framework models the ability of the borrowings from international credit institutions: Bank to meet its payment obligations under both normal conditions inter-bank deposit agreement: and during a crisis situation.
The Bank has developed a model debt issuances: based on the Basel III liquidity guidelines.
This approach is proceeds from sale of securities: designed to ensure that the funding framework is sufficiently principal repayments on loans: flexible to ensure liquidity under a wide range of market conditions.
interest income: and The liquidity management framework is reviewed from time to time fee and commission income.
to ensure it is appropriate to the Banks current and planned activities.
Such review encompasses the funding scenarios As of 31 December 2014, the Groups total consolidated amounts modelled, the modelling approach, wholesale funding capacity, due to customers was GEL 3,338.7 million US$1,791.5 million limit determination and minimum holdings of liquid assets.
The as compared to GEL 3,117.7 million and GEL 2,693.0 million as of liquidity framework is reviewed by the ALCO prior to approval by 31 December 2013 and 2012, respectively and represented 56.2% the Bank Management Board.
as compared to 59.0% and 58.6% as of 31 December 2013 and 2012, respectively of the Groups total liabilities.
Included in amounts The Finance Department also undertakes an annual funding review due to customers are term deposits of individuals.
In accordance that outlines the current funding strategy for the coming year.
with Georgian legislation, the Bank is obliged to repay such deposits This review encompasses trends in global debt markets, funding upon demand of a depositor.
In the case of early withdrawal, the alternatives, peer analysis, estimation of the Banks upcoming interest on the deposit is foregone or reduced.
As of 31 December funding requirements, estimated market funding capacity and a 2014, total amounts due to credit institutions and debt securities funding risk analysis.
The annual funding plan is reviewed by the issued were GEL 2,265.9 million US$1,215.9 million as compared Bank Management Board and approved by the Bank Supervisory to GEL 1,886.1 million and GEL 1,657.2 million as of 31 December Board as part of the annual budget.
The Funding and Treasury 2013 and 2012, respectively and represented 38.1% as compared departments also review, from time to time, different funding to 35.7% and 36.1% as of 31 December 2013 and 2012, respectively options and assess the refinancing risks of such options.
of the Groups total liabilities.
Amounts due to credit institutions and debt securities are taken from a wide range of counterparties.
Mitigation: The Banks capability to discharge its liabilities is dependent on its ability to realise an equivalent amount of assets The Bank Management Board believes that both the Groups and the within the same period of time.
The Bank maintains a portfolio of Banks liquidity is sufficient to meet each of their present requirements.
highly marketable and diverse assets that it believes can be easily For information on the Groups liquid assets, liabilities and maturity liquidated in the event of an unforeseen interruption of cash flow.
profile of the Groups financial liabilities as well as further information It also has committed lines of credit that it can access to meet its on the liquidity risk of the Group see Note 30 of the Notes to liquidity needs.
Such lines of credit are available through the NBGs consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report.
Borrowed funds maturity breakdown 31 December 2014 Repayment schedule, USD million 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Eurobonds 400.0 Senior loans 77.1 63.0 43.8 18.6 9.5 Subordinated loans 10.0 65.0 Promissory notes 12.5 0.3 Total 89.6 63.3 443.8 28.6 9.5 65.0 % of total assets 2.2% 1.6% 10.9% 0.7% 0.2% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 1.6% 42 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information Market risk The Bank is also subject to prepayment risk, which is the risk Definition: The Bank is exposed to market risk including currency that the Bank will incur a financial loss because its customers and exchange rate risk and interest rate risk, which is the risk that the counterparties repay or request repayment earlier than expected, fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate such as fixed rate mortgages when interest rates fall.
The Group due to changes in market variables.
Market risk exposure arises reviews the prior history of early repayments by calculating the from mismatches of maturity and currencies between the assets weighted average effective rate of early repayments across each and liabilities, all of which are exposed to market fluctuations.
credit product, individually, applying these historical rates to the outstanding carrying amount of each loan product as of the Mitigation: The general principles of the Banks market risk reporting date and then multiplying the product by the weighted management policy are set by the ALCO.
The Bank aims to average effective annual interest rates for each product.
This allows limit and reduce the amount of possible losses on open market the Bank to calculate the expected amount of unforeseen losses positions which may be incurred by the Bank due to negative in the case of early repayments.
changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Bank classifies exposures to market risk into either trading or non-trading For further information on the Groups market risk see Note 30 of the positions.
Trading and non-trading positions are managed and Notes to consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report.
monitored using different sensitivity analyses.
In order to address these risks, the ALCO specifically establishes VAR limits on Operational risk possible losses for each type of operation currently the VAR limit Definition: Operational risk is the risk of loss arising from systems is set for foreign currency exchange operations only and the failure, human error, fraud or external events.
When controls fail to Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Analytics monitors perform, operational risks can cause damage to reputation, have compliance with such limits.
legal or regulatory implications, or lead to financial loss.
The Bank cannot expect to eliminate all operational risks, but through a Currency exchange rate risk: Currency exchange rate risk is control framework and by monitoring and responding to potential the risk that the value of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to risks, the Bank aims to manage the risks.
Controls include effective changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
The Bank is exposed segregation of duties, access, authorisation and reconciliation to the effects of fluctuation in the prevailing foreign currency procedures, staff education and training and assessment exchange rates on its financial position.
The Banks currency risk processes, including the use of internal audit.
is calculated as an aggregate of open positions and is controlled by setting a VAR calculation established by the ALCO with respect Mitigation: The Bank manages its operational risks by to the Banks currency basket.
The Bank uses the historical establishing, monitoring and continuously improving its policies simulation method based on 400 business day statistical data.
Its and procedures relating to the various aspects of the Banks cash, open currency positions are managed by the Treasury Department payments, accounting, trading and core processing operations on a day-to-day basis and are monitored by the Quantitative Risk and data back-up and disaster recovery arrangements.
Management and Risk Analytics Department.
The ALCO sets open currency position limits with respect to both overnight and intra-day The Bank has an integrated control framework encompassing positions and stop-loss limits.
Currently, the Banks proprietary operational risk management and control, AML compliance, trading position is limited by the ALCO to a maximum of 15.0% corporate and information security and physical security, of the Banks NBG total regulatory capital.
The open currency each of which is managed by a separate department.
position is also limited by ALCO to a VAR of seven basis points of its NBG regulatory capital for a one-day trading period with The Operational Risk Management and Control Department is a 95.0% tolerance threshold.
The ALCO limits are more responsible for identification and assessment of operational risk conservative than NBGs requirements, which allow banks to keep categories within the Banks processes and operations, detecting open positions of up to 20.0% of regulatory capital.
The Bank critical risk areas or groups of operations with an increased risk level, additionally limits open foreign currency positions other than US developing response actions and the imposition of restrictions in Dollars and Lari to 1% of the regulatory capital.
The Bank also critical risk zones to mitigate identified risk and developing businessapplies sensitivity stress tests to its open currency positions to process optimisation schemes, including document circulation, estimate potential negative impact on its net assets and earnings.
information streams, distribution of functions, permissions and responsibilities.
The Operational Risk Management and Control Interest rate risk: The Bank has exposure to interest rate risk as Department is also responsible for developing and updating policies a result of lending at fixed and floating interest rates in amounts and procedures and ensuring that these policies and procedures and for periods which differ from those of term borrowings at fixed meet legal and regulatory requirements and help to ensure that and floating interest rates.
Interest margins on assets and liabilities material operating risks are within acceptable levels.
It also monitors having different maturities may increase or decrease as a result of and periodically reviews the Banks internal control systems to detect changes in market interest rates.
errors or infringements by the Banks departments and divisions.
The Head of the Operational Risk Management Department, who Similarly to other Georgian banks, the majority of the Banks assets reports to the Deputy CEO Chief Risk Officer, is responsible for and deposits have fixed interest rates.
In order to minimise interest the oversight of the Banks operational risks.
rate risk, the Bank monitors its interest rate re-pricing gap and maintains an interest rate margin net interest income before impairment of interest-earning assets divided by average interestearning assets sufficient to cover operational expenses and risk premium.
Within limits approved by the Bank Supervisory Board, the ALCO approves ranges of interest rates for different maturities at which the Bank may place assets and attract liabilities.
Compliance with the Banks interest rate policy is monitored by the Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Analytics Department.
As of 31 December 2014, the Groups floating rate borrowings accounted for 10.5% of the Groups total liabilities.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 43
