Principal risks and uncertainties The table below describes the principal Understanding risks and uncertainties relating to the our risks Groups operations and their potential impact, as well the trend and outlook associated with these risks and the mitigating actions we take to address these risks.
It is not possible to mitigate fully all of our risks, and there may be other risks and uncertainties besides those listed below which may also adversely affect the Group and its performance.
More details on risk management can be found on page 78 and in the following sections of this Annual Report: Risk Committee Report pages 84 and 85, Risk Management pages 36 to 43 and Audit Committee Report pages 79 to 83.
Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation We may be adversely affected by Although the Lari has significantly We continuously monitor market conditions devaluation of the Lari in addition depreciated against the US Dollar over and review market changes.
We also to general deterioration of global, the last six months, Lari depreciation perform stress and scenario testing to test regional and Georgian economic against the Euro has been lower at our financial position in adverse economic conditions.
We expect that there conditions, which include Lari US Dollar may be further depreciation of the Lari exchange rates of 2.5 1 and 2.7 1.
Over the past six months, the Lari has but are unable to predict whether this depreciated against the US Dollar by will be significant.
We also establish limits on possible losses nearly 25%.
Although this devaluation for each type of operation and monitor has not adversely affected our business or Global and regional economic compliance with such limits.
performance to date, there is a risk that the conditions remain volatile and there devaluation that has occured and or any is significant economic uncertainty Given our strong liquidity position, we believe future devaluation of the Lari against the notwithstanding general improvement that we will be able to manage risk related US Dollar may adversely affect the quality in the financial sector.
to our US Dollar denominated loan book by of our loan portfolio, as our corporate loan re-profiling such loans.
We are also looking book is heavily US Dollar denominated The IMF has predicted that GDP growth at ways to stimulate growth of our Euro and many of our customers earn Lari.
in the region is expected to decrease denominated loan book.
Although real GDP We are also affected by other macroeconomic growth in Georgia was 4.8% in 2014, In addition, the NBG requires banks to hold and market conditions globally, regionally and according to Geostat, we believe that additional capital to mitigate potential risk in Georgia.
Growth has recently slowed in real GDP growth in Georgia will be in associated with foreign currency loans to many emerging economies, including Georgia.
the range of 1.5% to 3.0% due to the customers that earn Lari.
In addition to currency exchange rates, other depreciation of the Lari against the macroeconomic factors relating to Georgia, US Dollar, declining net exports from such as GDP, inflation and interest rates may Georgia to the region and weaker have a material impact on loan losses, our remittances.
margins and customer demand for our products and services.
Despite the Lari depreciation, inflation is expected to remain relatively stable in 2015.
32 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation Our loan book is heavily US Dollar In 2014, we saw significant loan book We have credit policies and procedures denominated, the quality of which growth of 23.8%, as a result of the in place which incorporate prudent lending may deteriorate as a result of Lari success of our Express Banking strategy.
criteria aligned with our risk appetite to effectively devaluation.
Despite the devaluation of the Lari, manage risk.
These policies and procedures are non-performing loans only increased by reviewed frequently and amended as necessary As at 31 December 2014, approximately 6.0% during 2014.
In 2014, the cost of to account for changes in the economic 80% and 55% of our corporate loan book our credit risk improved to 1.2% in 2014 environment or other factors.
and retail loan book, respectively, was compared to 1.4% in 2013. denominated in US Dollars, while US Dollar Our Credit Committees set counterparty limits by income covered approximately 50% of the In Q1 2015, we have not seen an increase the use of a credit risk classification and scoring total loan book.
in non-performing loans despite the system and approve individual transactions.
The devaluation of the Lari against the credit quality review process is continuous and The quality of our loan book is affected US Dollar.
provides early identification of possible changes by changes in the creditworthiness of our in the creditworthiness of customers, potential customers, the ability of our customers Our loan book is collateralised and losses and corrective actions needed to to repay their loans on time, the statutory as at 31 December 2014, the value of reduce risk.
priority of claims against customers, our collateral covered 88.1% of the gross ability to enforce our security interests on loan book.
In 2014 and the first quarter We also stress test our loan book to estimate customers collateral and the value of such of 2015, there were no material changes the size of the portfolio that may be impaired.
collateral should such customers fail to to collateral values.
In light of the Lari to US Dollar devaluation, we repay their loans, as well as factors beyond will continue to stress test using Lari US Dollar our control such as economic instability.
The quality of our loan book and our exchange rates of 2.5 1 and 2.7 1.
We allocate Depreciation of the Lari against the US Dollar future cost of risk is dependent on 75% more capital to the foreign currency loans may result in customers having difficulty macroeconomic conditions and may of clients who earn income in Lari and discount repaying their loans.
real estate collateral values by 20% in our Devaluation of the Lari against the stress testing.
Our impairment charges and, in turn, US Dollar may cause our customers our cost of credit risk, may increase if to face difficulty in meeting their Given our strong liquidity position, we believe that a single large borrower defaults or payment obligations.
we will be able to manage risk related to our US a material concentration of smaller Dollar denominated loan book by re-profiling borrowers default.
Potential re-profiling may include extending maturities and or converting US Dollar denominated loans into Euro denominated loans.
We will also continue to expand our Lari and Euro denominated loan book in order to offset risk associated with our US Dollar denominated loan book.
The local economy and our business Despite tensions in the breakaway territories, Georgia has taken significant steps to reduce may be adversely affected by regional Russia has opened its market to Georgian its dependence on Russia and Ukraine.
Georgias exports to Russia have decreased Since Georgias independence from Russia Over the past year, Russia and Ukraines from 18.0% of total exports in 2006 to 9.9% in 1991, there have been ongoing disputes relationship has continued to deteriorate.
Georgias energy in the breakaway regions of Abkhazia and Although Russia and Ukraine signed a dependence on Russia has also consistently the Tskhinvali Region South Ossetia and ceasefire agreement in February, fighting decreased y-o-y.
In 2008, Georgian troops engaged continues between pro-Russian rebels with local militias and Russian forces that and the Ukrainian Army.
With the recent signing of the Deep and crossed the international border.
Although Comprehensive Free Trade Area DCFTA a ceasefire was signed in 2008, Russia As a result, there is significant with the EU, we expect that Georgias continues to recognise the independence uncertainty as to if, how and when the dependence on its regional neighbours of the breakaway regions and its troops conflict between Russia and Ukraine will continue to decrease.
occupy these regions and relations between will be resolved.
Russia and Georgia remain tense.
The annexation of Crimea by Russia in 2014 has resulted in sanctions levied against Russia as well as social, political and military unrest between Russia and Ukraine, and has adversely affected the financial markets and economic stability of Russia and the neighbouring region.
In addition, relations between Azerbaijan and Armenia, remain tense, particularly in relation to the Nagorno-Karabakh region, and there are sporadic instances of violence between these two countries.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 33 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation We face regulatory risk.
Our businesses are currently in Continued investment in our people and compliance with all applicable laws processes is enabling us to meet our Our businesses are highly regulated.
regulatory requirements and places us well to respond to changes in regulation.
Our banking operations must comply with Compliance with changes in capital capital adequacy and other regulatory ratios adequacy requirements and other In line with our integrated control framework, set by our regulator, the NBG, including regulatory ratios may be affected by we carefully evaluate the impact of legislative reserve requirements and mandatory factors outside of our control, including and regulatory changes as part of our formal financial ratios.
but not limited to a weakening of the risk identification and assessment processes global and Georgian economies.
and, to the extent possible, proactively Our ability to comply with these regulations participate in the drafting of relevant may be affected by a number of factors, In October 2014, an anti-monopoly legislation.
As part of this process, we engage including but not limited to increases in agency was established and antiin constructive dialogue with regulatory minimum capital adequacy ratios imposed monopoly legislation was implemented bodies, where possible, and seek external by the NBG, our ability to raise capital, in respect of certain non-banking advice on potential changes to legislation.
losses resulting from a deterioration in operations.
We expect that such We then develop appropriate policies, our asset quality, an increase in expenses legislation may have an impact on our procedures and controls as required to and a decline in the values of our non-banking operations acquisitions as fulfil our compliance obligations.
we will be required to seek permission to proceed with certain future acquisitions.
Our compliance framework, at all levels, is We also provide other regulated financial subject to regular review by internal audit services and offer financing products, As healthcare legislation is continuously and external assurance providers.
including brokerage and pension fund evolving, we expect that additional operations, insurance and services such as regulations will be adopted.
We, however, asset management, all of which are subject cannot predict what additional regulatory to governmental supervision and regulation.
changes will be introduced in the future or their effect.
With respect to our healthcare operations, there have been a number of reforms in the Georgian healthcare services market, including but not limited to the introduction of a Universal Healthcare Programme UHC.
It is possible that the Government may amend the UHC to enhance coverage and it may introduce new licensing or accreditation requirements, which may adversely affect our healthcare services and health insurance businesses.
Over the past few years, we have seen We have an integrated control framework an increase in external fraud, although encompassing operational risk management We are subject to the risk of incurring losses from such frauds have not and control, AML compliance, corporate and losses or undue costs due to inadequacies increased significantly.
information security and physical security, or failure of internal control processes or each of which is managed by a separate systems or human error, business disruptions, In 2015, we expect that data security, department.
We identify and assess criminal activities including fraud and particularly an increasing number of operational risk categories within our electronic crimes, unauthorised transactions, cyber-threats, will be the greatest processes and operations, detecting critical robbery and damage to assets.
We are concern in respect of operational risk.
risk areas or groups of operations with an highly dependent on our information increased risk level and seek to implement technology systems.
The proper functioning appropriate preventative tools.
of our systems, controls, risk management, accounting, customer service and other Our internal audit function provides assurance information technology systems, are on the adequacy and effectiveness of our critical to our operations.
The work of the Audit Committee in reviewing our internal control system is set out on pages 79 to 83 of this Annual Report.
34 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation We face risks related to our healthcare From 2011 to 2013, we added over GHG has a solid track record of acquisitions.
business, GHG, and other non-banking 800 beds through acquisitions and Led by a highly experienced management investment businesses.
successfully integrated the acquired team, GHG has successfully acquired and businesses, achieving significant cost integrated more than 20 companies in the Over the past year, we have significantly savings, synergies and revenue hospital and insurance sectors over the past expanded our healthcare operations through enhancements from these acquisitions.
We have a dedicated integration GHG and intend to continue with this In 2014, we added an additional 790 team comprising of highly experienced expansion by opening new healthcare beds through acquisitions and either professionals with extensive integration facilities, and through the acquisition of have or are in the process of completing project experience.
The integration team additional healthcare facilities in Georgia.
We expect meets at least weekly to discuss all aspects There is a risk that GHG may be unable to to achieve the anticipated synergies of the integration process, including but not efficiently integrate the acquired hospitals during 2015. limited to financial, commercial, clinical, and clinics and or may not be able to realise human resources and legal matters.
the anticipated cost savings, benefits, Businesses within the Group have synergies and revenue enhancements successfully accessed the international With respect to our minority interest in GGU, from the acquisitions.
With respect Mr Gilauri has recently joined the Supervisory to current capital markets conditions, Board and we have been able to select We have recently acquired a minority although there is a strong level of strong Group executives to join the GGU interest in Georgia Global Utilities, a water preparatory activity by companies management team allowing us to learn the utility company.
As this is a new business across Europe who are planning an business from the inside.
We are also seeking area for the Group, we face risks associated IPO, the success of an IPO is very advice from experienced global professionals with water utility companies.
much linked to global and regional in the industry.
macroeconomic and political events, We have stated that as part of our strategy among other factors.
With respect to the GHG IPO, we are we intend to divest our investment businesses targeting an IPO in 2015.
However, if GHG in full or partially within six years.
We have decides to postpone the IPO due to market announced our intention to IPO our healthcare related or other reasons, we are confident business through a planned stock market that the Groups current funding levels are listing in 2015.
It may not be possible, or sufficient to meet our business plan and the desirable, to IPO our healthcare business due financial position would not be adversely to a number of factors, including supportive affected.
equity issuance markets, the ability to achieve favourable terms for the IPO and or the political and economic environment.
With respect to future divestments by way of a stock market listing or trade sale, similar risks may be present.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 35
