The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Risk management An overview of Barclays approach to risk management For a more detailed breakdown on our Risk review and Risk management contents please see pages 113 and 114.
More detailed information on how Barclays manages these risks can be found in Barclays plc Pillar 3 Report.
Page Barclays risk management strategy Introduction 124 Risk management strategy 124 Governance structure 124 Risk governance and assigning responsibilities 126 Principal risks 127 Credit risk management Overview 128 Organisation and structure 128 Roles and responsibilities 129 Credit risk mitigation 129 Market risk management Overview 130 Organisation and structure 131 Roles and responsibilities 131 Capital risk management Overview 132 Organisation and structure 132 Roles and responsibilities 132 Liquidity risk management Overview 134 Organisation and structure 134 Liquidity risk management framework 134 Operational risk management Overview 135 Organisation and structure 135 Roles and responsibilities 136 Conduct risk management Overview 137 Organisation and structure 137 Roles and responsibilities 137 Management of conduct risk 138 Reputation risk management Overview 139 Organisation and structure 139 Roles and responsibilities 140 barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 123 Risk review Risk management Barclays risk management strategy The following pages provide an overview of the Groups approach to risk management.
A more comprehensive overview together with more specific information on Group policies can be found in Barclays PLC 2014 Pillar 3 Report or at barclays.
com Evaluate Introduction This section outlines the Groups strategy for managing risk and how risk culture has been developed to ensure that there is a set of objectives and practices which are shared across the Group.
It provides details of the Groups governance, committee structure and how responsibilities are assigned.
Risk management strategy The Group has clear risk management objectives and a wellRespond Monitor established strategy to deliver them, through core risk management processes.
At a strategic level, the risk management objectives are to: Identify the Groups significant risks: Formulate the Groups risk appetite and ensure that the business profile and plans are consistent with it: The process is orientated around material risks impacting delivery of Optimise risk return decisions by taking them as closely as possible objectives, and is used to promote an efficient and effective approach to the business, while establishing strong and independent review to risk management.
This three-step risk management process: and challenge structures: Can be applied to every objective at every level in the bank, both Ensure that business growth plans are properly supported by top-down or bottom-up: effective risk infrastructure: Is embedded into the business decision making process: Manage the risk profile to ensure that specific financial deliverables remain possible under a range of adverse business conditions: and Guides the Groups response to changes in the external or internal environment in which existing activities are conducted: and Help executives improve the control and co-ordination of risk taking across the business.
Involves all staff and all three lines of defence see page 127.
A key element of setting clear management objectives is the Enterprise Governance structure Risk Management Framework ERMF, which sets out the activities, Risk exists when the outcome of taking a particular decision or course tools, techniques and organisational arrangements so that material of action is uncertain and could potentially impact whether, or how risks facing the Group can be better identified and understood, and well, the Group delivers on its objectives.
that appropriate responses are in place to protect Barclays and prevent detriment to its customers, employees or community.
This will help the The Group faces risks throughout its business, every day, in everything Group meet its goals, and enhance its ability to respond to new it does.
Some risks are taken after appropriate consideration like opportunities.
Other risks may arise from unintended consequences of internal actions, for example an IT system failure or The aim of the risk management process is to provide a structured, poor sales practices.
Finally, some risks are the result of events outside practical and easily understood set of three steps, Evaluate, Respond the Group but which impact its business such as major exposure and Monitor the E-R-M process, that enables management to identify through trading or lending to a market counterparty which later fails.
and assess those risks, determine the appropriate risk response, and then monitor the effectiveness of the risk response and changes to the All employees must play their part in the Groups risk management, risk profile.
regardless of position, function or location.
All employees are required to be familiar with risk management policies that are relevant to their 1.
Evaluate: risk evaluation must be carried out by those individuals, activities, know how to escalate actual or potential risk issues, and have teams and departments that are best placed to identify and assess the a role-appropriate level of awareness of the ERMF, risk management potential risks, and include those responsible for delivering the process and governance arrangements.
There are four key Board-level committees which review and monitor 2.
Respond: the appropriate risk response effectively and efficiently risk across the Group.
These are: the Board: the Board Enterprise Wide ensures that risks are kept within appetite, which is the level of risk that Risk Committee: the Board Financial Risk Committee and the Board the Group is prepared to accept while pursuing its business strategy.
Conduct, Operational and Reputational Risk Committee.
There are three types of response: i accept the risk but take the necessary mitigating actions such as using risk controls: ii stop the The Board existing activity do not start the proposed activity: or iii continue the One of the Boards Board of Directors of Barclays PLC responsibilities activity but lay off risks to another party e. g. insurance.
is the approval of risk appetite, which is the level of risk the Group 3.
Monitor: once risks have been identified and measured, and controls chooses to take in pursuit of its business objectives.
The Chief Risk put in place, progress towards objectives must be tracked.
Monitoring Officer regularly presents a report to the Board summarising must be ongoing and can prompt re-evaluation of the risks and or developments in the risk environment and performance trends in the changes in responses.
Monitoring must be carried out proactively and key portfolios.
The Board is also responsible for the Internal Control and is wider than just reporting and includes ensuring risks are being Assurance Framework Group Control Framework.
It oversees the maintained within risk appetite, and checking that controls are management of the most significant risks through the regular review of functioning as intended and remain fit for purpose.
risk exposures and related key controls.
Executive management responsibilities relating to this are set out in the ERMF.
124 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Board oversight and flow of risk related information Board Ensures that the Group manages risk effectively and as part of this duty, approves overall risk appetite for the Group.
Board Board Conduct, Board Board Board Remuneration Operational and Financial Audit Enterprise Wide Committee Reputational Risk Risk Committee Committee Risk Committee Committee Considers an enterprise-wide Reviews remuneration Considers and evaluates the Considers and evaluates the Considers the adequacy and view of the Groups risk principles and approach and Groups operational risk Groups financial risk profile effectiveness of Group appetite and profile and approves remuneration based profile and risk appetite and and risk appetite, internal controls.
considers enterprise-wide risk on risk-adjusted identifies and manages encompassing credit, market themes, which may have a performance.
material adverse impact on the Groups operations.
Authority controls appetite The Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee BEWRC The Board Conduct, Operational and Reputational Risk Committee The BEWRC is a committee of the Board, from which it derives its BCORR authority and to which it regularly reports.
The principal purpose of the The BCORR was created to strengthen the Board-level governance over Committee is to review, on behalf of the Board, managements conduct risk and reputation matters.
It reviews the effectiveness of the recommendations on risk, in particular: processes by which the Group identifies and manages conduct and reputation risk and considers whether business decisions will Consider and recommend to the Board the Groups overall risk compromise the Groups ethical policies or core business beliefs and appetite: values.
It also considers the Groups risk appetite statement for operational risk and evaluates the Groups operational risk profile and Review, on behalf of the Board, the Groups overall risk profile: operational risk monitoring.
Satisfy itself on the design and completeness of the Groups ERMF, including the Principal Risk categories: and In addition, the Board Audit and Board Remuneration Committees receive regular risk reports to assist them in the undertaking of their Consider key enterprise wide risk themes.
BEWRC membership comprises the Group Chairman and Chairmen of the Board Audit Committee, Board Conduct, Operational and The Board Audit Committee BAC Reputational Risk Committee, Board Financial Risk Committee and The BAC receives, among other reports, quarterly reports on material Board Remuneration Committee.
The Group Chief Executive Officer control issues of significance, quarterly papers on accounting CEO, Group Chief Risk Officer CRO, Group Finance Director, Head of judgements including impairment, and a half-yearly review of the Compliance, General Counsel and Chief Internal Auditor are mandatory adequacy of impairment allowances, which it reviews relative to the attendees.
risk inherent in the portfolios, the business environment, the Groups policies and methodologies and the performance trends of peer banks.
The Board Financial Risk Committee BFRC The Chairman of the BAC also sits on the BFRC and BCORR.
The BFRC monitors the Groups risk profile against the agreed financial appetite.
Where actual performance differs from expectations, the The Board Remuneration Committee RemCo actions being taken by management are reviewed to ensure that the The RemCo receives a detailed report on risk management BFRC is comfortable with them.
After each meeting, the Chair of the performance from the BFRC, regular updates on the risk profile and BFRC prepares a report for the next meeting of the Board.
All members proposals for the ex-ante risk adjustment.
These inputs are considered are non-executive Directors.
The Group Finance Director and the Chief in the setting of performance incentives.
Risk Officer attend each meeting as a matter of course.
Summaries of the relevant business, professional and risk management experience of the Directors of the Board are given in the Board of The BFRC receives regular and comprehensive reports on risk methodologies and the Groups risk profile including the key issues Directors section on page 34.
The terms of reference and additional details on membership activities for each of the principal Board affecting each business portfolio and forward risk trends.
The Committee also commissions in-depth analyses of significant risk Committees are available from the Corporate Governance section at: barclays.
topics, which are presented by the CRO or senior risk managers in the businesses.
The Chair of the Committee prepares a statement each The CRO manages the independent Risk function and chairs the year on its activities.
Financial Risk Committee FRC and the Operational Risk and Control Committee ORCC, which monitor the Groups financial and nonfinancial risk profile relative to established risk appetite.
The Group Treasurer heads the Group Treasury function and chairs the Treasury Committee which manages the Groups liquidity, maturity transformation and structural interest rate exposure through the barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 125 Risk review Risk management setting of policies and controls: monitors the Groups liquidity and community, enabling the Group to meets its goals, and enhance its interest rate maturity mismatch: monitors usage of regulatory and ability to respond to new opportunities.
economic capital: and has oversight of the management of the Groups It covers those risks incurred by the Group that are foreseeable, capital plan.
continuous and material enough to merit establishing specific Group-wide control frameworks.
These are known as Key Risks.
See The Head of Compliance chairs the Conduct and Reputational Risk Committee CRRC which assesses quality of the application of the Principal Risks on page 141 for more information.
Reputation and Conduct Risk Control Frameworks.
It also recommends The ERMF is intended to be widely read with the aim of articulating a risk appetite, sets policies to ensure consistent adherence to that clear, consistent, comprehensive and effective approach for the appetite, and reviews known and emerging reputational and conduct management of all risks in the Group and creating the proper context related risks to consider if action is required.
for setting standards and establishing the right practices throughout The Enterprise Wide Risk Management Committee EWRMC was the Group.
The ERMF sets out a philosophy and approach that is established by, and derives its authority from, the CRO.
It supports the applicable to the whole bank, all colleagues and to all types of risk and CRO in the provision of oversight and challenge of the systems and defines the roles and responsibilities of all employees with respect to controls in respect of risk management.
EWRMC membership includes risk management, including the CRO and the CEO.
It also sets out the CRO, CEO, Group Finance Director, Group General Counsel, and specific requirements for key individuals, including the CRO and CEO, Head of Compliance.
and the overall governance framework that will oversee its effective operation.
See Risk Culture in Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report for more Risk governance and assigning responsibilities information.
Responsibility for risk management resides at all levels of the Group, The EMRF supports risk management and control by ensuring that from the Board and the Executive Committee down through the there is a: organisation to each business manager and risk specialist.
These responsibilities are distributed so that risk return decisions are: taken Sustainable and consistent implementation of the three lines of at the most appropriate level: as close as possible to the business and, defence across all businesses and functions: subject to robust and effective review and challenge.
The Framework for the management of Principal Risks: responsibilities for effective review and challenge reside at all levels.
Consistent application of Barclays risk appetite across all Principal The ERMF was introduced as part of the Transform programme and Risks: and sets out the activities, tools, techniques and organisational arrangements to ensure that all material risks are identified and Clear and simple policy hierarchy.
understood, and that appropriate responses are in place to protect the Group and prevent detriment to its customers, colleagues or Reporting and control Board Financial Risk Committee Board Conduct Operational and Reputational Risk Committee and Board Audit Committee Financial Treasury Tax Risk Operational Risk Conduct and Enterprise Wide Risk Committee Committee Committee and Control Reputational Risk Management monitors risk profile Committee Risk Committee Committee sets policy controls monitors the tax risk with respect to risk for liquidity, maturity profile in respect of reviews, challenges assesses quality of the considers the key appetite transformation and risk appetite and recommends application of the Group-wide risk structural interest rate appetite for Reputation and themes which may debates and agrees assesses the quality of exposure actions on the the application of the Operational Risk Conduct Risk Control have a significant Frameworks impact on the Group financial risk profile monitors the Groups control framework monitors risk profile and risk strategy liquidity and interest considers the overall considers issues that recommends risk against risk appetite across the Group rate maturity risk profile appetite and sets arise as a result of mismatch for relevant Key Risk performance against considers issues developing trends policies to ensure Types risk appetite escalated by Risk Type consistent adherence monitors usage of Heads and Business regulatory and reviews the Groups to that appetite considers the design Risk Directors economic capital aggregate Operational and completeness of reviews known and Risk profile the Enterprise Wide oversees the emerging reputational Risk Management management of the and conduct related reviews and Framework Groups capital plan challenges risks to consider if action is required also reports into the presentations on individual Key Risk Board Enterprise Wide proactively considers Risk Committee Types reputational and conduct related issues that arise as a result of business activity and from external forces Credit Risk Funding Risk Operational Risk Conduct Risk Market Risk Reputation Risk 126 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Three lines of defence Business function heads are responsible for obtaining ongoing The enterprise risk management process is the defence and assurance that the key controls they have put in place to manage the organising businesses and functions into three lines enhances the risks to their business objectives are operating effectively.
Reviews are E-R-M process by formalising independence and challenge, while still undertaken on a six-monthly basis and support the regulatory promoting collaboration and the flow of information between all areas.
requirement for the Group to make an annual statement about its The three lines of defence operating model enables the Group to system of internal controls.
At the business level executive separate risk management activities: management hold specific Business Risk Oversight Meetings to monitor all Principal Risks.
First line: own and take risk, and implement controls Key Risk Officers report their assessments of the risk exposure and First line activities are characterised by: control effectiveness to Group-level oversight committees and their assessments form the basis of the reports that go to the: Ownership of and direct responsibility for the Groups returns or elements of Barclays results: Board Financial Risk Committee: Ownership of major operations, systems and processes fundamental Financial Risk Committee has oversight of Credit and Market Risks to the operation of the bank: and Treasury Committee has oversight of Funding Risk.
Direct linkage of objective setting, performance assessment and reward to P&L performance.
Board Conduct, Operational and Reputation Risk Committee: Second line: oversee and challenge the first line, provide second line Operational Risk and Control Committee has oversight of all risk management activity and support controls Operational Risk types, with the exception of Tax Risk, which is primarily overseen by the Tax Risk Committee Second line activities are characterised by: Conduct and Reputation Risk Committee has oversight of the Oversight, monitoring and challenge of the first line of defence Conduct and Reputation Risks.
activities: Each Key Risk Officer also undertakes an annual programme of Design, ownership or operation of Key Risk Control Frameworks risk-based conformance reviews.
A conformance review is undertaken impacting the activities of the first line of defence: by individuals who are independent of the management team running Operation of certain second line risk management activities e. g. the operations and assesses the quality of conformance testing.
work-outs : and The following sections provide an overview of each of the six Principal No direct linkage of objective setting, performance assessment and Risks together with details of the structure and organisation of the reward to revenue measures related to mitigation of losses and relevant management function and its roles and responsibilities balancing risk and reward are permissible.
including how the impact of the risk to the Group may be minimised.
Third line: provide assurance that the E-R-M process is fit for purpose, and that it is being carried out as intended Third line activities are characterised by: Providing independent and timely assurance to the Board and Executive Management over the effectiveness of governance, risk management and control.
Principal Risks A Principal Risk comprises individual Key Risk types to allow for more granular analysis of the associated risk.
As at 31 December 2014 the six Principal Risks were: i Credit: ii Market: iii Funding: iv Operational: v Conduct: and vi Reputation.
For 2015, reputation risk will be recognised as a Key Risk within Conduct Risk given the close alignment between them and the fact that as separate Principal Risks they had a common Principal Risk Officer.
Risk management responsibilities are laid out in the ERMF, which covers the categories of risk in which the Group has its most significant actual or potential risk exposures.
The ERMF: creates clear ownership and accountability: ensures the Groups most significant risk exposures are understood and managed in accordance with agreed risk appetite and risk tolerances: and ensures regular reporting of both risk exposures and the operating effectiveness of controls.
Each Key Risk is owned by a senior individual known as the Key Risk Officer who is responsible for developing a risk appetite statement and overseeing and managing the risk in line with the ERMF.
This includes the documentation, communication and maintenance of a risk control framework which makes clear, for every business across the firm, the mandated control requirements in managing exposures to that Key Risk.
These control requirements are given further specification, according to the business or risk type, to provide a complete and appropriate system of internal control.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 127 Risk review Risk management Credit risk management Control and plan credit risk-taking in line with external stakeholder Credit risk expectations and avoiding undesirable concentrations: The risk of suffering financial loss should any of the Monitor credit risk and adherence to agreed controls: and Groups customers, clients or market counterparties fail Ensure that risk-reward objectives are met.
to fulfil their contractual obligations to the Group.
More information of the reporting of credit risk can be found in Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report.
Overview The granting of credit is one of the Groups major sources of income Organisation and structure and, as a significant risk, the Group dedicates considerable resources to its control.
The credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly from Wholesale and retail portfolios are managed separately to reflect the wholesale and retail loans and advances together with the counterparty differing nature of the assets: wholesale balances tend to be larger and credit risk arising from derivative contracts entered into with clients.
are managed on an individual basis while retail balances are larger in Other sources of credit risk arise from trading activities, including: debt number but smaller in value and are, therefore, managed on a securities, settlement balances with market counterparties, available for homogenous portfolio basis.
sale assets and reverse repurchase loans.
Responsibilities of credit risk management has been structured so that Credit risk management objectives are to: decisions are taken as close as possible to the business, while ensuring robust review and challenge of performance, risk infrastructure and Maintain a framework of controls to ensure credit risk-taking is strategic plans.
The credit risk management teams in each business are based on sound credit risk management principles: accountable to the relevant business Chief Risk Officer who, in turn, Identify, assess and measure credit risk clearly and accurately across reports to the CRO.
the Group and within each separate business, from the level of individual facilities up to the total portfolio: Board Financial Risk Committee Financial Risk Committee Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee Retail Credit Risk Committee Monitor the wholesale credit risk profile against plan and agree any required actions Monitor the retail credit risk profile against plan and agree any required actions Review and challenge the profile of wholesale credit risk Review impairment performance and coverage ratios Consider potential developing wholesale credit risk issues Review key retail risk issues, model methodologies and coverage Monitor risk appetite consumption Review retail credit risk policies and framework Monitor risk appetite consumption 128 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Collateral Roles and responsibilities The Group has the ability to call on collateral in the event of default of The responsibilities of the credit risk management teams in the the counterparty, comprising: businesses, the sanctioning team and other shared services include: Home loans: a fixed charge over residential property in the form of sanctioning new credit agreements principally wholesale : setting the houses, flats and other dwellings policies for approval of transactions principally retail : monitoring risk against limits and other parameters: maintaining robust processes, Wholesale lending: a fixed charge over commercial property and data gathering, quality, storage and reporting methods for effective other physical assets, in various forms credit risk management: for wholesale portfolios performing effective Other retail lending: includes charges over motor vehicles and other turnaround and workout scenarios via dedicated restructuring and physical assets, second lien charges over residential property, and recoveries teams: for retail portfolios maintaining robust collections finance lease receivables and recovery processes units: and review and validation of credit risk measurement models.
Derivatives: the Group also often seeks to enter into a margin agreement e. g. Credit Support Annex CSA with counterparties For wholesale portfolios, credit risk approval is undertaken by with which the Group has master netting agreements in place experienced credit risk professionals operating within a clearly defined delegated authority framework, with only the most senior credit Reverse repurchase agreements: collateral typically comprises highly officers entrusted with the higher levels of delegated authority.
The liquid securities which have been legally transferred to the Group largest credit exposures are approved at the Credit Committee which is subject to an agreement to return them for a fixed price managed by the central risk function.
In the wholesale portfolios, credit Financial guarantees and similar off-balance sheet commitments: risk managers are organised in sanctioning teams by geography, cash collateral may be held against these arrangements industry and or product.
The role of the Central Risk function is to provide Group-wide direction, Risk transfer oversight and challenge of credit risk-taking.
Central risk sets the Credit A range of instruments including guarantees, credit insurance, credit Risk Control Framework, which provides a structure within which credit derivatives and securitisation can be used to transfer credit risk from risk is managed together with supporting credit risk policies.
These mitigate credit risk in two main ways: Credit risk mitigation If the risk is transferred to a counterparty which is more credit The Group employs a range of techniques and strategies to actively worthy than the original counterparty, then overall credit risk will mitigate credit risks to which it is exposed.
These can broadly be have been reduced divided into three types: netting and set-off: collateral: and risk transfer.
Where recourse to the first counterparty remains, both counterparties must default before a loss materialises.
This will be Netting and set-off less likely than the default of either counterparty individually so In most jurisdictions in which the Group operates, credit risk exposures credit risk is reduced can be reduced by applying netting and set-off.
In exposure terms, this credit risk mitigation technique has the largest overall impact on net Detailed policies are in place to ensure that credit risk mitigation is exposure to derivative transactions compared with other risk mitigation appropriately recognised and recorded and more information can be techniques.
found in the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report For derivative transactions, the Groups normal practice is to enter into standard master agreements with counterparties e. g. ISDA.
These master agreements allow for netting of credit risk exposure to a counterparty resulting from a derivative transaction against the Groups obligations to the counterparty in the event of default, to produce a lower net credit exposure.
These agreements may also reduce settlement exposure e. g. for foreign exchange transactions by allowing for payments on the same day in the same currency to be set off against one another.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 129 Risk review Risk management Market risk management Organisation and structure Market risk Traded market risk in the business resides primarily in Investment Bank, The risk of a reduction to earnings or capital due to Group Treasury, Africa Banking and Non-Core.
These businesses have the mandate to incur traded market risk.
Non-traded market risk is volatility of the trading book positions or an inability to mostly incurred in PCB and Barclaycard.
hedge the banking book balance sheet.
Pension risk Overview The Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for past and current employees.
The ability of the pension fund to meet the Traded market risk projected pension payments is maintained principally through Traded market risk arises primarily as a result of client facilitation in investments.
wholesale markets, involving market making activities, risk management solutions and execution of syndications.
Upon execution Pension risk arises because the estimated market value of the pension of a trade with a client, the Group will look to hedge against the risk of fund assets might decline: or their investment returns might reduce: or the trade moving in an adverse direction.
Mismatches between client the estimated value of the pension liabilities might increase.
The Group transactions and hedges result in market risk due to changes in asset monitors the market risks arising from its defined benefit pension prices.
schemes, and works with the trustees to address shortfalls.
In these circumstances, the Group could be required or might choose to make Non-traded market risk extra contributions to the pension fund.
The Groups main defined Banking book operations generate non-traded market risk, primarily benefit scheme was closed to new entrants in 2012. through interest rate risk arising from the sensitivity of net interest margins to changes in interest rates.
The principal banking business Insurance risk PCB engages in internal derivative trades with Treasury to manage this Insurance risk is solely managed within Africa Banking where four interest rate risk to within its defined risk appetite, however, the categories of insurance risk are recognised, namely short-term businesses remain susceptible to market risk from four key sources: insurance underwriting risk, life insurance underwriting risk, life insurance mismatch risk and life and insurance investment risk.
Prepayment risk: Balance run-off may be faster or slower than expected due to customer behaviour in response to general Insurance risk arises when: economic conditions or interest rates.
This can lead to a mismatch Aggregate insurance premiums received from policyholders under a between the actual balance of products and the hedges executed portfolio of insurance contracts are inadequate to cover the claims with Treasury based on initial expectations arising from those policies and the expenses associated with the Recruitment risk: The volume of new business may be lower or management of the portfolio of policies and claims: higher than expected requiring the business to unwind or execute Premiums are not invested to adequately match the duration, timing hedging transactions with Treasury at different rates than expected and size of expected claims: or Residual risk and margin compression: The business may retain a Unexpected fluctuations in claims arise or when excessive exposure small element of interest rate risk to facilitate the day-to-day e. g. in individual or aggregate exposures relative to capacity is management of customer business.
Additionally, in the current low retained in the entity.
rate environment, deposits on which the Group sets the interest rate are exposed to margin compression.
This is because for any further Insurance entities also incur market risk on the investment of fall in base rate the Group must absorb an increasing amount of the accumulated premiums and shareholder capital, credit risk rate move in its margin counterparty exposure on investments and reinsurance transactions, liquidity risk and operational risk from their investments and financial Lag risk: The risk of being unable to re-price products immediately operations.
after a change in interest rates due to mandatory notification periods.
This is highly prevalent in managed rates saving products e. g. Every Day Saver where customers must be informed in writing of any planned reduction in their savings rate Board Financial Risk Committee Financial Risk Committee Market Risk Committee Chaired by the Group Financial Risk Director Oversees the management of the Groups market risk profile Approves Market Risk Key Risk Frameworks Reviews arising market or regulatory issues Proposes risk appetite levels to the Board 130 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Overview of the business market risk control structure Group Market Risk Risk type Traded Non-traded Pension Insurance Interest rate risk Interest rate risk Discount rate risk Underwriting Spread risk Foreign exchange risk Inflation risk Re-insurance Foreign exchange risk Structural interest rate risk Asset value risk Reserving Equity risk Direct interest rate risk Longevity Asset liquidity management Commodity risk Prepayment risk Member choices Investment management Inflation risk Recruitment risk Traded credit risk Lag risk Basis risk Funding spread risk... managed by Investment Bank Personal and Corporate Pension Fund Africa Banking Treasury Banking Trustees and Barclays BAGL Barclaycard Central functions Barclays Non-Core Africa Banking Barclays Non-Core with oversight and challenge provided by Market Risk Committee and Traded products risk review Absa Market Risk Committee Pension management group Investment Risk Committee Investment Committee Treasury Committee Pension Executive Board Underwriting Review Committee Conformance reviews Treasury Hedge Committee Actuarial Review Committee Asset and Liability Committees New product sign-off process Conformance reviews Ensure that traded market risk in the businesses resides primarily in Organisation and structure certain areas, and that it is controlled according to the allocated Traded market risk in the businesses resides primarily in the Investment appetite: Bank, Treasury, Africa Banking and BNC.
The businesses have the Control non-traded market risk in line with approved appetite: mandate to incur traded market risk.
Non-traded market risk is mostly incurred in PCB and Barclaycard.
Control insurance risk in line with approved appetite: and Market risk oversight and challenge is provided by business Support the BNC strategy of asset reductions by ensuring that it committees, Group committees, including the Market Risk Committee remains within agreed risk appetite.
The chart above gives an overview of the To ensure the above objectives are met, a well-established governance business control structure.
structure is in place, whereby the risks are identified, assessed, controlled and reported throughout the organisation.
Roles and responsibilities More information on market risk management can be found in Barclays The objectives of market risk management are to: PLC Pillar 3 Report.
Understand and control market risk by robust measurement, limit setting, reporting and oversight: Facilitate business growth within a controlled and transparent risk management framework: barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 131 Risk review Risk management Funding and capital risk management In 2014, to ensure effective oversight and segregation of duties and in Funding risk line with the ERMF, the Key Risk Officer duties and conformance The ability of the Group to achieve its business plans responsibilities were transferred from Treasury to Risk.
may be adversely impacted if it does not effectively An overview on how capital and liquidity risks are managed is covered manage its capital including leverage and liquidity below: ratios.
Group Treasury manage funding risk on a day-to-day basis with the Group Treasury Committee acting as the principle management body.
Board Financial Risk Committee Group Treasury Committee Chaired by the Group Treasurer Oversees the manangement of the Groups Capital Plan Sets policy controls for liquidity, maturity transformation and structural interest rate exposure Monitors the Groups liquidity and interest rate maturity mismatch Monitors usage of regulatory and economic capital Roles and responsibilities Capital risk The Groups capital management strategy is driven by the strategic Capital risk is the risk that the Group has insufficient aims of the Group and the risk appetite set by the Board.
The Groups capital resources to: objectives are achieved through well embedded capital management practices: Meet minimum regulatory requirements in the UK and in other jurisdictions such as the United States Capital planning Capital forecasts are managed on a top-down and bottom-up analysis and South Africa where regulated activities are through both short term one year and medium-term three years undertaken.
The Groups authority to operate as financial planning cycles.
Barclays capital plans are developed with the a bank is dependent upon the maintenance of objective of maintaining capital that is adequate in quantity and quality adequate capital resources: to support the Groups risk profile, regulatory and business needs, including Transform financial commitments.
As a result, the Group holds a diversified capital base that provides strong loss absorbing Support its credit rating.
A weaker credit rating would capacity and optimised returns.
increase the Groups cost of funds: and Barclays capital plans are continually monitored against relevant internal target capital ratios to ensure they remain appropriate, and Support its growth and strategic options.
consider risks to the plan including possible future regulatory changes.
Local management ensures compliance with an entitys minimum regulatory capital requirements by reporting to local Asset and Liability Overview Committees with oversight by the Groups Treasury Committee, as required.
Organisation and structure Capital management is integral to the Groups approach to financial stability and sustainability management and is therefore embedded in the way businesses and legal entities operate.
Capital demand and supply is actively managed on a centralised basis, at a business level, at a local entity level and on a regional basis taking into account the regulatory, economic and commercial environment in which Barclays operates.
132 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Monitoring and managing capital Capital is monitored and managed on an ongoing basis through: Primary objectives Core practices Stress testing: internal stress testing is undertaken to quantify and understand the impact of sensitivities on the capital plan and capital ratios, arising from 1 in 7 year and 1 in 25 year stresses.
Actual recent Provide a viable and sustainable Maintain a capital plan on a economic, market and peer institution stresses are used to inform the business offering by maintaining short-term and medium-term adequate capital to cover the basis aligned with strategic assumptions of the stress tests and assess the effectiveness of Groups current and forecast objectives, balancing capital mitigations strategies.
business needs and associated risks generation of the business with business growth and shareholder The Group also undertakes stress tests prescribed by the PRA and ECB.
distributions Legal entities undertake stress tests prescribed by their local regulators.
These stress tests inform decisions on the size and quality of capital Ensure the Group and legal entities Meet minimum regulatory buffer required and the results are incorporated into the Group capital maintain adequate capital to requirements at all times in the plan to ensure adequacy of capital under normal and severe, but withstand the impact of the risks UK and in all other jurisdictions plausible, stressed conditions.
that may arise under the stressed that the Group operates in, such conditions analysed by the Group as the United States and South Risk mitigation: as part of the stress testing process actions are Africa where regulated activities identified that should be taken to mitigate the risks that could arise in are undertaken the event of material adverse changes in the current economic and Perform Group-wide internal and regulatory stress tests business outlook.
Maintain capital buffers over As an additional layer of protection, the Barclays Recovery Plan defines regulatory minimums the actions and implementation strategies available for the Group to Develop contingency plans for severe stress management increase or preserve capital resources in the event that stress events are actions and extreme stress tests more extreme than anticipated.
In addition, the strong regulatory focus recovery actions on resolvability has continued in 2014, from both UK and international regulators.
The Group continues to work with the authorities on Support a strong credit rating Maintain capital ratios aligned recovery and resolution planning RRP, and the detailed practicalities with rating agency expectations of the resolution process, including the provision of information that would be required in the event of a resolution, so as to enhance Barclays resolvability.
Regulatory requirements Senior management awareness and transparency: Treasury works Capital planning is set in consideration of minimum regulatory closely with Central Risk, businesses and legal entities to support a requirements in all jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Barclays proactive approach to identifying sources of capital ratio volatilities regulatory capital requirements are determined by the PRA under the which are considered in the Groups capital plan.
Capital risks against Basel III and CRD IV requirements.
firm-specific and macroeconomic early warning indicators are monitored and reported to the Treasury Committee, associated with Under these regulatory frameworks, capital requirements are set in clear escalation channels to senior management.
consideration of the level of risk that the firm is exposed to which is measured through both risk-weighted assets RWAs and leverage.
Capital management information is readily available at all times to support the Executive Managements strategic and day-to-day business Capital held to support the level of risk identified is set in consideration of minimum ratio requirements and internal buffers.
Capital decision making, as may be required.
requirements are set to support the firms level of risk both on a going The Group submits its Board approved ICAAP document to the PRA on concern basis and in resolution.
an annual basis, which forms the basis of the Individual Capital Guidance ICG set by the PRA.
Governance Capital allocation: capital allocations are approved by the Group The Group and legal entity capital plans are underpinned by the Capital Risk Framework, which includes capital management policies and Executive Committee and monitored by the Treasury Committee, taking into consideration the risk appetite, growth and strategic aims of practices approved by the Treasury Committee.
These plans are implemented consistently in order to deliver on the Group objectives.
Barclays Bank PLC BBPLC is the primary source of capital to its legal entities.
Regulated legal entities are, at a minimum, allocated The Board approves the Group capital plan, stress tests and recovery adequate capital to meet their current and forecast regulatory and plan.
The Treasury Committee manages compliance with the Groups business requirements.
The Committee reviews actual and Transferability of capital: the Groups policy is for surplus capital held in forecast capital demand and resources on a monthly basis.
The Board Risk Committee annually reviews risk appetite and then analyses the Group entities to be repatriated to BBPLC in the form of dividends and or capital repatriation, subject to local regulatory requirements, impacts of stress scenarios on the Group capital forecast in order to understand and manage the Groups projected capital adequacy.
exchange controls and tax implications.
This approach provides optimal flexibility on the re-deployment of capital across legal entities.
The Group is not aware of any material impediments to the prompt transfer of capital resources, in line with the above policy, or repayment of intra-Group liabilities when due.
More information on capital risk management can be found in Barclays PLC Pillar 3 document pages 158 and 159. barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 133 Risk review Risk management Liquidity risk management The Funding and Liquidity Risk Committee is responsible for the Liquidity risk review, challenge and recommendation of the Liquidity Framework The risk that the firm, although solvent, either does not to the Treasury Committee: and have sufficient financial resources available to enable it The Liquidity Management Committee, which is responsible for to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure managing the liquidity of the Group through a liquidity event.
such resources only at excessive cost.
This also results in Liquidity risk management framework a firms inability to meet regulatory liquidity requirements.
This risk is inherent in all banking The Group has a comprehensive Liquidity Framework for managing the Groups liquidity risk.
The Liquidity Framework describes liquidity operations and can be affected by a wide range of policies and controls that the Group has implemented to manage Group-specific and market-wide events.
liquidity risk within the LRA.
The Liquidity Framework is designed to deliver the appropriate term and structure of funding consistent with Overview the LRA set by the Board.
Liquidity risk is recognised as a Key Risk within funding risk.
Efficient Liquidity is monitored and managed on an on-going basis through: management of liquidity is essential to the Group in retaining the Risk appetite and planning: established LRA together with the confidence of the financial markets and ensuring that the business is appropriate limits for the management of liquidity risk.
This is the level sustainable.
Liquidity risk is managed through the Liquidity Risk of liquidity risk the Group chooses to take in pursuit of its business Management Framework the Liquidity Framework which is designed objectives and in meeting its regulatory obligations.
to maintain liquidity resources that are sufficient in amount and quality, and a funding profile, appropriate to maintain market confidence in the Liquidity limits: management of limits on a variety of on and offGroups name and meet the liquidity risk appetite as expressed by the balance sheet exposures and these serve to control the overall extent Board.
and composition of liquidity risk taken by managing exposure to the cash outflows.
This is achieved via a combination of policy formation, review and governance, analysis, stress testing, limit setting and monitoring.
Internal pricing and incentives: active management of the composition and duration of the balance sheet and of contingent liquidity risk Together, these meet internal and regulatory requirements.
through the transfer of liquidity premium directly to the businesses.
Organisation and structure Early warning indicators: monitoring of a range of market indicators for early signs of liquidity risk in the market or specific to Barclays.
These Barclays Treasury operates a centralised governance control process are designed to immediately identify the emergence of increased that covers all of the Groups liquidity risk management activities.
As liquidity risk to maximise the time available to execute appropriate required under the Enterprise Risk Management Framework the mitigating actions.
Treasury Key Risk Officer KRO approves the Liquidity Framework under which the treasury function operates.
The Treasury KRO reports Contingency Funding Plan: maintenance of a Contingency Funding into the Head of Financial Risk Principal Risk Officer and has an Plan CFP which is designed to provide a framework where a liquidity independent reporting line to the risk function.
The Liquidity stress could be effectively managed.
The CFP provides a Framework is subject to annual review.
The Liquidity Framework communication plan and includes management actions to respond to describes liquidity policies and controls that the Group has liquidity stresses of varying severity.
implemented to manage liquidity risk within the Liquidity Risk Appetite.
Recovery Resolution Plan: in accordance with the requirements of the The Board sets the Groups Liquidity Risk Appetite LRA, being the PRA Rulebook: Recovery & Resolution, Barclays has developed a Group level of risk the Group chooses to take in pursuit of its business Recovery Plan.
The key objectives are to provide the Group with a range objectives and in meeting its regulatory obligations.
The Treasury of options to ensure the viability of the firm in a stress, set consistent Committee is responsible for the management and governance of the Early Warning Indicators and to enable the Group to be adequately mandate defined by the Board and includes the following subprepared to respond to stressed conditions.
The Group continues to committees: work closely with the PRA on developing the resolution plan.
Ongoing business Early signs Severe Stress Recovery Resolution management Mild stress LRA and Planning Monitoring and review Activate Contingency Asset and liability Ensure an orderly Funding Plan actions to generate resolution can be carried Liquidity limits Low cost actions and additional liquidity out if necessary, without balance sheet optimism Balance sheet reduction Early Warning adverse systemic risk or and business limitations Indicators Committee exposing the public fund to loss 134 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Risk management Operational risk management Operational risk comprises a number of specific Key Risks defined as Operational risk follows: Any instance where there is a potential or actual impact Cyber security: risk of loss or detriment to the Groups business and to the Group resulting from inadequate or failed internal customers as a result of actions committed or facilitated through the processes, people, systems, or from an external event.
use of networked information systems The impacts to the Group can be financial, including External supplier: inadequate selection and ongoing management of losses or an unexpected financial gain, as well as external suppliers non-financial such as customer detriment, reputational Financial reporting: reporting misstatement or omission within or regulatory consequences.
external financial or regulatory reporting Fraud: dishonest behaviour with the intent to make a gain or cause a Overview loss to others The management of operational risk has two key objectives to: Information: inadequate protection of the Groups information in accordance with its value and sensitivity Minimise the impact of losses suffered, both in the normal course of business small losses and from extreme events large losses : and Legal: failure to identify and manage legal risks Improve the effective management of the Group and strengthen its Payments: failure in operation of payments processes brand and external reputation.
People: inadequate people capabilities, and or performance reward The Group is committed to the management and measurement of structures, and or inappropriate behaviours operational risk and was granted a waiver by the FSA now the PRA to Premises and security: unavailability of premises to meet business operate an Advanced Measurement Approach AMA for operational demand and or safe working environments, and inadequate risk, which commenced in January 2008.
The majority of the Group protection of physical assets, employees and customers against calculates regulatory capital requirements using AMA 93% of capital external threats requirements : however, in specific areas, the Basic Indicator Approach 7% is applied.
The Group works to benchmark its internal operational Taxation: failure to comply with tax laws and practice which could lead to financial penalties, additional tax charges or reputational risk management and measurement practices with peer banks and to drive the further development of advanced techniques.
damage Technology: failure to develop and deploy secure, stable and reliable Organisation and structure technology solutions The Group is committed to operating within a strong system of internal Transaction operations: failure in the management of critical control that enables business to be transacted and risk taken without transaction processes exposing itself to unacceptable potential losses or reputational In order to ensure complete coverage of the potential adverse impacts damage.
The key elements of the Groups system of internal control, on the Group arising from operational risk, the operational risk which is aligned to the recommendations of the Committee of taxonomy extends beyond the operational key risks listed above to Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commissions COSO cover areas included within conduct risk.
For more information on Internal Control Integrated Framework, are set out in the risk control conduct risk please see pages 137 and 138. frameworks relating to each of the Groups Key Risks and in the Group Operational Risk Framework.
Board Audit Committee Board Conduct Operational and Reputational Risk Committee Operational Risk & Control Committee Chaired by the Chief Risk Officer Review, challenge and recommend operational risk appetite Monitor the operational risk profile against appetite Debate potential developing operational risk issues Review effectiveness of Operational Risk Frameworks barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 135 Risk review Risk management Operational risk management Roles and responsibilities The prime responsibility for the management of operational risk and the compliance with control requirements rests with the business and functional units where the risk arises.
The Operational Risk function acts in a second line of defence capacity and provides oversight and challenge of the business operational risk profile escalating issues as appropriate.
The Head of Operational Risk is responsible for establishing, owning and maintaining an appropriate Group-wide Operational Risk Framework and for overseeing the portfolio of Operational Risk across the Group.
The Operational Risk & Control Committee OR&CC is the senior executive body responsible for the oversight and challenge of operational risk and the control environment.
Depending on their nature, the outputs of the OR&CC are presented to the BCORR or the BAC.
At the business level, operational risk is monitored by executive management through specific meetings which cover governance, risk and control.
Businesses are required to report their operational risks on both a regular and an event-driven basis.
The reports include a profile of the material risks that may threaten the achievement of their objectives and the effectiveness of key controls, material control issues, operational risk events and a review of scenarios and capital.
Operational risk management is represented at these business meetings and provides specific risk input into the issues highlighted and the overall risk profile of the business.
Operational risk issues escalated from these meetings are considered at the OR&CC and from time to time businesses are required to present a deep-dive of their operational risk and control environment.
The committee then considers material control issues and their effective remediation.
On control issues the OR&CC additionally presents to the BAC.
Specific reports are prepared by businesses, Key Risk Officers and Operational Risk on a regular basis for OR&CC, BCORR and BAC.
Risk and control self-assessments and key indicators The Group identifies and assesses all material risks within each business and evaluates the key controls in place to mitigate those risks.
Managers in the businesses use self-assessment techniques to identify risks, evaluate the effectiveness of key controls in place, and assess whether the risks are effectively managed within business risk appetite.
The businesses are then able to make decisions on what, if any, action is required to reduce the level of risk to the Group.
These risk assessments are monitored on a regular basis to ensure that each business continually understands the risks it faces.
Key indicators KIs are metrics which allow the Group to monitor its operational risk profile.
KIs include measurable thresholds that reflect the risk appetite of the business and are monitored to alert management when risk levels exceed acceptable ranges or risk appetite levels and drive timely decision-making and actions.
136 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Risk management Conduct risk management The Conduct Risk Committee CRC is a senior executive body Conduct risk responsible for the oversight and challenge of Conduct Risk and the The risk that detriment is caused to customers, clients, control environment within Barclays.
The outputs of the CRC are presented to the CRRC and the BCORR.
counterparties or the Group because of inappropriate judgement in the execution of the Groups business In addition, specific committees monitor conduct risk and the control environment at the business level.
Roles and responsibilities Overview The Conduct Risk Principal Risk Framework PRF comprises a number The Group defines, manages and mitigates conduct risk with the goal of elements that allow the Group to manage and measure its conduct of providing good customer outcomes and protecting market integrity.
The PRF is implemented across the Group: The Group has defined 10 outcomes which are positive indicators that Vertically, through an organisational structure that requires all it is delivering good customer outcomes and protecting market businesses to implement and operate their own conduct risk integrity: framework that meets the requirements detailed within the ERMF Culture places customer interests at the heart of strategy, planning, Horizontally, with Group Key Risk Officers KROs required to monitor decision making and judgements information relevant to their Key Risk from each element of the Strategy is to develop long-term banking relationships with Conduct Risk PRF customers by providing products and services that meet their needs The primary responsibility for managing conduct risk and compliance and do not cause detriment with control requirements is with the business where the risk arises.
Does not disadvantage or exploit customers, customer segments or The Conduct Risk Accountable Executive for each business is markets, and does not distort market competition responsible for ensuring the implementation of, and compliance with, the Group Conduct Risk framework.
Proactively identifies conduct risks and intervenes before they crystallise by managing, escalating and mitigating them promptly The Conduct Principal Risk Owner is responsible for owning and maintaining an appropriate Group-wide Conduct Risk PRF and for Products, services and distribution channels are designed, monitored overseeing Group-wide Conduct Risk management.
and managed to provide value, accessibility, transparency, and to meet the needs of customers Businesses are required to report their conduct risks on both a quarterly and an event-driven basis.
The quarterly reports detail Provides banking products and services that meet customers conduct risks inherent within the business strategy and include expectations and perform as represented.
Representations are forward-looking horizon-scanning analysis as well as backward-looking accurate and comprehensible so customers understand the products evidence-based indicators from both internal and external sources.
and services they are purchasing Business-level reports are reviewed within Compliance.
Compliance Addresses any customer detriment and dissatisfaction in a timely then creates Group-level reports for consideration by CRC, CRRC and and fair manner BCORR.
The Group periodically assesses its management of conduct Safeguards the privacy of personal data risk through independent audits and addresses issues identified.
Does not conduct or facilitate market abuse Event-driven reporting consists of any risks or issues that breach certain thresholds for severity and probability.
Any such risks or issues Does not conduct or facilitate financial crime must be promptly escalated to the business and the appropriate KRO.
Organisation and structure The Conduct and Reputational Risk Committee CRRC is a subcommittee of the BCORR.
The principal purpose of the CRRC is to review and monitor the effectiveness of Barclays management of Conduct and Reputation Risk.
Board Conduct Operational and Reputational Risk Committee Conduct and Reputational Risk Committee Conduct Risk Committee Responsible for the oversight and challenge of conduct risk and control environment within Barclays barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 137 Risk review Risk management Conduct risk management Management of conduct risk Conduct risk management includes the following elements: Conduct material risk assessments: accountable executives must complete a top-down assessment of their business model and strategy.
The analysis should take into consideration both internal e. g. historic and current business strategy and banking activities and external factors e. g. economic and regulatory environment.
This must identify all conduct risks arising from the business model, strategy or banking activity and must include recommendations and management actions to address the conduct risks identified.
These assessments must then be presented to Business Risk Oversight Committees.
These assessments are reflected in Conduct Risk Reports.
Conduct risk appetite: conduct risk is a non-financial risk and is intrinsic in all of Barclays banking activities.
There is no appetite for customer detriment resulting from inappropriate judgements in the execution of its business activities.
Conduct risk appetite is aligned to the Group Risk Appetite Framework.
BCORR considers and recommends to the Board for approval, via the BEWRC, the Groups conduct risk appetite statement.
Conduct risk reporting: accountable executives must produce a quarterly Conduct Risk Report which documents their businesses approach to understand, monitor, manage and control conduct risk.
Risk and issue reporting: risk and issue reporting provides additional senior management visibility of any conduct risks or issues that breach certain severity and probability thresholds.
Thresholds have been set across the Group: any risk or issue that breaches these must be reported to BCORR via CRRC.
In addition, any risks or issues that breach more significant probability thresholds must also be escalated promptly to the business and the appropriate KRO.
Business conduct performance management information: businesses are expected to evaluate how effectively they are managing conduct risks including against metrics that align with the Key Risk Frameworks and the 10 outcomes.
Barclays is developing a range of businessspecific and Group metrics and measures, which will further improve its ability to monitor and assess the identification and management of conduct risks.
138 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Risk management Reputation risk management The Framework sets out what is required to ensure reputation risk is Reputation risk managed effectively and consistently across the bank.
Reputation risk The risk of damage to the Groups brand arising from any is by nature pervasive and can be difficult to quantify, requiring more subjective judgement than many other risks.
The Framework is association, action or inaction which is perceived by designed explicitly in the light of that subjectivity and, together with stakeholders e. g. customers, clients, colleagues, supporting tools, policies and procedures, provides an holistic view of shareholders, regulators, opinion formers to be how the Group managed reputation risk during the year.
The following policies, tools and guidance support the Groups businesses and functions in implementing the requirements of the Overview Framework: Damage to the Groups brand and consequent erosion of reputation The Barclays Way Code of Conduct sets out in one place what it reduces the attractiveness of the Group to stakeholders and may lead means to work in the Group and the standards and behaviours to negative publicity, loss of revenue, regulatory or legislative action, expected of all colleagues.
It gives examples of how the Barclays loss of existing and potential client business, reduced workforce morale Values should be put into practice in decision-making and highlights and difficulties in recruiting talent.
Ultimately it may destroy the responsibility of individuals to challenge poor practice whenever shareholder value.
and wherever it occurs Reputation risk may arise in many different ways, for example: The Barclays Guide outlines the Groups governance framework and contains information about how the Group organises, manages and Failure to act in good faith and in accordance with the Groups values governs itself and code of conduct Reputation Risk Appetite is the level of risk that the Group is Failure real or perceived to comply with the law or regulation, or prepared to accept while pursuing its business strategy, recognising association real or implied with illegal activity a range of possible outcomes as business plans are implemented Failures in corporate governance, management or technical systems The Barclays Lens is an assessment tool made up of five simple Failure to comply with internal standards and policies questions designed to ensure that the interests of customers, clients, shareholders and communities are taken into account in the Association with controversial sectors or clients decisions made every day.
The Lens is applied alongside other Association with controversial transactions, projects, countries or decision-making tools to help the Group move beyond legal, governments regulatory and compliance concerns to consider broader societal impacts and opportunities.
Association with controversial business decisions, including but not restricted to, decisions relating to: products in particular new Organisation and structure products, delivery channels, promotions advertising, acquisitions, branch representation, sourcing supply chain relationships, staff The reputation risk governance structure links the Board of Barclays locations, treatment of financial transactions Bank PLC, senior management and other fora to create a vehicle for the oversight of reputation risk.
The CRRC is the designated Key Risk forum Association with poor employment practices.
In each case, the risk may arise from failure to comply with either The Group Reputational Committee is a sub-committee of the CRRC, stated or expected norms, which are likely to change over time, so an from which it derives its authority.
It has license to investigate any assessment of reputation risk cannot be static.
If not managed matters within its responsibilities and obtain information as required effectively, stakeholder expectations of responsible corporate behaviour from any employee of the Group, and to make decisions to resolve will not be met.
reputation issues escalated to it.
The Group designated reputation risk as a Principal Risk and developed Each business and functions where appropriate has a clearly defined procedures and resources, including the Reputation Risk Principal and procedure for escalation of reputation risks as part of their risk Key Risk Framework the Framework, to support businesses and oversight process.
This includes a reputation risk sub-committee or functions in dealing with reputation risks arising in their areas of equivalent of their Executive Committee, which has representation activity.
This Framework is aligned to the overarching Group ERMF.
In from appropriate specialists e. g. the Head of Communications.
2015 reputation risk has been re-designated as a Key Risk under the Business Risk Oversight Committee meetings consider all Principal Conduct Risk Principal Risk.
Risks, and reputation risk as a Key Risk under conduct risk, as they relate to the associated businesses or region.
Board Conduct Operational and Reputational Risk Committee Conduct and Reputational Risk Committee Group Reputational Committee Has authority to investigate all reputation risk matters and obtain information from any Group employee Makes decisions to resolve reputation issues escalated to it barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 139 Risk review Risk management Reputation risk management Roles and responsibilities The principal responsibility for managing reputation risk lies with each business and function and, firstly, with the individuals responsible for making decisions that could impact Barclays reputation.
There will, however, be circumstances where it is necessary to escalate the evaluation of the reputation risk associated with particular decisions beyond an individual, business or function.
The Groups businesses and functions escalate material reputation risk issues to the Group Reputation Committee via their risk oversight processes, which have a specified means of considering reputationrelated issues on an ad hoc basis as they arise e. g. a reputation risk sub-committee or equivalent.
Issues may merit escalation due to: i the degree of risk involved: ii the fact that the issue sets a significant precedent: or iii the fact that the issue impacts on more than one of the Groups businesses.
Each business and function region where appropriate submits quarterly KRI reports to the Group reputation risk team, highlighting their most significant current and potential reputation risks and issues and how they are being managed.
Reputation risk reporting takes the following forms: Quarterly reporting of key reputation risks via Business Risk Oversight Committees to Group Reputation Committee and CRRC Six-monthly reputation risk horizon scan reports, including current and emerging priority reputation risks to BCORR Ad hoc review of identified reputationally controversial issues transactions relationships by business reputation committees, with escalation to Group Reputation Committee, where required.
140 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
