The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Material existing and emerging risks The section describes the material risks which senior management is currently focused on and believe could cause the Groups future results of operations, financial condition and prospects to differ materially from current expectations.
For more information about the major risk policies which underlie risk exposures, see the consolidated policy-based qualitative information in the Pillar 3 Report.
A summary of this information may also be found in this report in the Risk Management section between pages 123 to 141. barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 115 Risk review Material existing and emerging risks Material existing and emerging risks to the Groups future performance The following information describes the material risks which senior ii mark to market losses in trading portfolios resulting from changes management are currently focused on and believe could cause its in credit ratings, share prices and solvency of counterparties: and iii future results of operations, financial condition and prospects to higher levels of default rates and impairment.
differ materially from current expectations including the ability to meet dividend expectations, ability to maintain appropriate levels of ii UK political and policy environment emerging risk capital and meet capital and leverage ratio targets, or achieve stated The political outlook in the UK is uncertain ahead of the General targets and commitments as outlined in the Strategy section and Election in May 2015.
The public policy environment in the UK other expected benefits.
In addition, risks relating to the Group that including but not limited to regulatory reform in the UK, a potential are not currently known, or that are currently deemed immaterial, referendum on UK membership of the European Union, and taxation may individually or cumulatively also have the potential to have a of UK financial institutions and clients is likely to remain challenging material adverse effect on the Groups future results of operations, in the short to medium term, with the potential for policy proposals financial condition and prospects.
emerging that could impact clients, markets and the Group either directly or indirectly.
Material risks and their impact are described below in two sections: i risks which management believes may affect more than one Principal Aside from specific policy proposals, uncertainty arises in particular with respect to: Risk: and ii risks management believes are more likely to impact a single Principal Risk.
Certain risks below have been classified as an An inconclusive result in the General Election and the potential for a emerging risk, which is a risk that has the potential to have an prolonged period of political uncertainty: and increasingly significant detrimental effect on the Groups performance, but currently its outcome and the time horizon for the crystallisation of Depending on the outcome of the election, a possible referendum on its possible impact is even more uncertain and more difficult to predict continued UK membership of the European Union by 2017. than for other risk factors that are not identified as emerging risks.
A referendum on the UK membership of the European Union may affect More information on Principal and Key Risks may be found in Barclays the Groups risk profile through introducing potentially significant new Approach to Managing Risk in the Barclays PLC 2014 Pillar 3 Report.
uncertainties and instability in financial markets, both ahead of the For 2015, reputation risk will be recognised as a Key Risk within dates for this referendum and, depending on the outcomes, after the conduct risk given the close alignment between them and the fact that event.
As a member of the European Union, the UK and UK-based as separate Principal Risks they have a common Principal Risk Officer.
organisations have access to the EU Single Market.
Given the lack of precedent, it is unclear how a potential exit of the UK from the EU would affect the UKs access to the EU Single Market and how it would Material existing and emerging risks potentially impacting affect the Group.
more than one Principal Risk iii Model risk i Business conditions, general economy and geopolitical issues The Groups performance could be adversely affected in more than The Group may suffer adverse consequences from risk based business and strategic decisions based on incorrect or misused one Principal Risk by a weak or deteriorating global economy or political instability.
These factors may also be focused in one or more model assumptions, outputs and reports.
of the Groups main countries of operation.
The Group uses models in particular to assess and control the Groups The Group offers a broad range of services to retail and institutional credit and market exposures.
Model risk can arise from a number of customers, including governments, across a large number of countries sources, including: fundamental model flaws leading to inaccurate outputs: incomplete, inaccurate or inappropriate data used for either with the result that it could be materially adversely impacted by weak or deteriorating economic conditions, including deflation, or political development or operation of the model: incorrect or inappropriate implementation or use of a model: or assumptions in the models instability in one or a number of countries in which the Group operates or any other globally significant economy.
becoming outdated or invalid due to the evolving external economic and legislative environment and changes in customer behaviour.
The global economy continues to face an environment characterised by low growth, and this is expected to continue during 2015 with slow If the Group were to place reliance on incorrect or misused model outputs or reports, this could result in a material adverse impact on the growth or recession in some regions, such as Europe which may be offset in part by expected growth in others, such as North America.
Any Groups reputation, operations, financial condition and prospects, for example, due to inaccurate reporting of financial statements: further slowing of economic growth in China would also be expected to have an adverse impact on the global economy through lower estimation of capital requirement either on a regulatory or economic demand, which is likely to have the most significant impact on basis : or measurement of the financial risks taken by the Group as part countries in developing regions that are producers of commodities of its normal course of business.
used in Chinas infrastructure development.
As a consequence, management of model risk has become an increasingly important area of focus for the Group, regulators and the While the pace of decreasing monetary support by central banks, in some regions, is expected to be calibrated to potential recovery in industry.
demand in such regions, any such decrease of monetary support could have a further adverse impact on volatility in the financial markets and Material existing and emerging risks by Principal Risk on the performance of significant parts of the Groups business, which could, in each case, have an adverse effect on the Groups future results.
Credit risk Falling or continued low oil prices could potentially have an adverse The financial condition of the Groups customers, clients and impact on the global economy with significant wide ranging effects on counterparties, including governments and other financial producer and importer nations as well as putting strain on client institutions, could adversely affect the Group.
companies in certain sectors which may lead to higher impairment requirements.
The Group may suffer financial loss if any of its customers, clients or market counterparties fails to fulfil their contractual obligations to the Furthermore, the outcome of the ongoing political and armed conflicts Group.
Furthermore, the Group may also suffer loss when the value of in the Ukraine and parts of the Middle East remain unpredictable and the Groups investment in the financial instruments of an entity falls as may have a negative impact on the global economy.
a result of that entitys credit rating being downgraded.
In addition, the A weak or deteriorating global economy and political instability could Group may incur significant unrealised gains or losses due solely to impact Group performance in a number of ways including, for example: changes in the Groups credit spreads or those of third parties, as these i deteriorating business, consumer or investor confidence leading to changes affect the fair value of the Groups derivative instruments, debt reduced levels of client activity and consequently a decline in revenues: securities that the Group holds or issues, or any loans held at fair value.
116 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information i Deterioration in political and economic environment While the Group has no material operations in Russia, the Group The Groups performance is at risk from any deterioration in the participates in certain financing and trading activity with selected economic and political environment which may result from a number counterparties conducting business in Russia with the result that of uncertainties, including most significantly the following factors: further sanctions or deterioration in the Russian economy may result in the counterparties being unable, through lack of a widely accepted a Political instability or economic uncertainty in markets in which the currency, or unwilling to repay, refinance or roll-over outstanding Group operates emerging risk liabilities.
Any such defaults could have a material adverse effect on the Political instability, economic uncertainty or deflation in regions in Groups results as a result of, for example, incurring higher impairment.
which the Group operates could weaken growth prospects that could For further information see page 150. lead to an adverse impact on customers ability to service debt and so to higher impairment requirements for the Group.
These include, but b Interest rate rises, including as a result of slowing of monetary are not limited to: stimulus, could impact on consumer debt affordability and corporate profitability Eurozone To the extent that interest rates increase in certain developed markets, The economies across the Eurozone are showing little evidence of such increases are widely expected to be gradual and modest in scale sustained growth with debt-burdened government finances, deflation, over the next 18 months, albeit at differing timetables, across the major weak demand and persistent high unemployment preventing a currencies.
While an increase may support Group income, any sharper sustained recovery.
Slow recovery could put economic pressure on key than expected changes could cause stress in loan portfolio and trading partners of Eurozone countries, notably the UK and China.
underwriting activity of the Group, leading to the possibility of the Furthermore, concerns persist on the pace of structural banking reform Group incurring higher impairment.
The possibility of higher in the Eurozone and the strength of the Eurozone banking sector in impairment would most notably occur in the Groups retail unsecured general.
A slowdown in the Eurozone economy could have a material and secured portfolios, which, coupled with a decline in collateral adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, financial condition values, could lead to a reduction in recoverability and value of the and prospects through, for example, a requirement to raise impairment Groups assets resulting in a requirement to increase the Groups level levels.
The Group is at risk from a sovereign default of an existing Eurozone country in which the Group has operations and the adverse impact on ii Specific sectors the economy of that exiting country and the credit standing of the The Group is subject to risks arising from changes in credit quality and Groups clients and counterparties.
This may result in increased credit recovery of loans and advances due from borrowers and counterparties losses and higher impairment requirements.
While the risk of one or in a specific portfolio or from a large individual name.
Any deterioration more countries exiting the Eurozone had been receding, as a result of in credit quality could lead to lower recoverability and higher the recent formation of an anti-austerity coalition government in impairment in a specific sector or in respect of specific large Greece, this risk and the risk of redenomination is now re-emerging counterparties.
The following provides examples of areas of alongside the possibility of a significant renegotiation of the terms of uncertainties to the Groups portfolio which could have a material Greeces bailout programme.
However, there may also be additional risks not yet known or currently immaterial which may have an adverse For further information see Exposures to Eurozone countries on page 150. impact on the Groups performance.
South Africa a Decline in property prices in the UK and Italy The economy in South Africa remains under pressure with weak The Group is at risk from a fall in property prices in both the residential underlying economic growth reinforced by industrial strike action and and commercial sectors in the UK.
With UK home loans representing electricity shortages.
While the rapid growth in the consumer lending the most significant portion of the Groups total loans and advances to industry over the past three years has begun to slow, concerns remain the retail sector, the Group has a large exposure to adverse over the level of consumer indebtedness, particularly given the developments in the UK retail property sector.
UK house prices prospect of further interest rate rises and high inflation.
Higher primarily in London increased throughout 2014 at a rate faster than unemployment and a fall in property prices, together with increased that of income and to a level far higher than the long term average.
As customer or client unwillingness or inability to meet their debt a result, a fall in house prices, particularly in London and South East of obligations to the Group, may have an adverse impact on the Groups the UK, would lead to higher impairment and negative capital impact as performance through higher impairment charges.
loss given default LGD rates increase.
In addition, reduced affordability of residential and commercial property in the UK, for Countries in developing regions example, as a result of higher interest rates or increased A number of countries, which have high fiscal deficits and reliance on unemployment, could also lead to higher impairment.
short term external financing and or material reliance on commodity exports, have become increasingly vulnerable as a result of, for In addition a significant portion of the Groups total loans and advances in Italy are to residential home loans.
As a consequence, a number of example, the volatility of the oil price, a strong US dollar relative to local currencies, and the winding down of quantitative easing policies by factors including, for example, a fall in property prices, higher unemployment, and higher default rates have the potential to have a some central banks.
The impact on the Group may vary according to such countrys respective structural vulnerabilities but the impact may significant impact on the Groups performance through higher impairment charges.
result in increased impairment requirements of the Group through sovereign defaults or the inability or unwillingness of clients and For further information see page 152. counterparties of the Group in that country to meet their debt obligations.
b Non-Core assets The Group holds a large portfolio of Non-Core assets, including Russia emerging risk commercial real estate and leveraged finance loans, which i remain The risks to Russia are escalating as pressure on the Russian economy illiquid: ii are valued based upon assumptions, judgements and increases.
Slowing GDP growth and high inflation due to the imposition estimates which may change over time: and iii are subject to further of economic sanctions by the US and EU, falls in the price of oil, a rapid deterioration and write-downs.
As a result, the Group is at risk of loss fall in the value of the rouble against other foreign currencies and on these portfolios due to, for example, higher impairment should their significant and rapid interest rate rises could have a significant adverse performance deteriorate or write-downs upon eventual sale of the impact on the Russian economy.
In addition, foreign investment into assets.
Russia reduced during 2014 and may continue in 2015. barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 117 Risk review Material existing and emerging risks Material existing and emerging risks to the Groups future performance c Large single name losses measured on a fair value basis.
The valuation of this portfolio is subject The Group has large individual exposures to single name to substantial uncertainty due to the long-dated nature of the counterparties.
The default of obligations by such counterparties could portfolios, the lack of a secondary market in the relevant loans and have a significant impact on the carrying value of these assets.
As a result of these factors, the Group may addition, where such counterparty risk has been mitigated by taking be required to revise the fair values of these portfolios to reflect, among collateral, credit risk may remain high if the collateral held cannot be other things, changes in valuation methodologies due to changes in realised or has to be liquidated at prices which are insufficient to industry valuation practices and as further market evidence is obtained recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure.
Any such in connection with the Non-Core asset run-off and exit process.
In defaults could have a material adverse effect on the Groups results due 2014, the Group recognised a reduction of 935m in the fair value of to, for example, incurring higher impairment charges.
Any further negative adjustments to the fair value of the ESHLA portfolio may give rise to significant losses to the Group.
Market risk For further information refer to Note 18 of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
The Groups financial position may be adversely affected by changes in both the level and volatility of prices leading to lower revenues and may include: Funding risk The ability of the Group to achieve its business plans may be i Major changes in quantitative easing programmes emerging risk adversely impacted if it does not effectively manage its capital The trading business model is focused on client facilitation in the including leverage and liquidity ratios.
wholesale markets, involving market making activities, risk management solutions and execution.
A prolonged continuation of The Group may not be able to achieve its business plans due to: i current quantitative easing programmes, in certain regions, could lead being unable to maintain appropriate capital ratios: ii being unable to to a change and a decrease of client activity which could result in lower meet its obligations as they fall due: iii rating agency methodology fees and commission income.
changes: and iv adverse changes in foreign exchange rates on capital ratios.
The Group is also exposed to a rapid unwinding of quantitative easing programmes.
A sharp movement in asset prices could affect market i Being unable to maintain appropriate capital ratios liquidity and cause excess volatility impacting the Groups ability to Should the Group be unable to maintain or achieve appropriate capital execute client trades and may also result in portfolio losses.
ratios this could lead to: an inability to support business activity: a failure to meet regulatory requirements including the requirements of ii Adverse movements in interest and foreign currency exchange regulator set stress tests: increased cost of funding due to deterioration rates emerging risk in credit ratings: restrictions on distributions including the ability to A sudden and adverse movement in interest or foreign currency meet dividend targets: and or the need to take additional measures to exchange rates has the potential to detrimentally impact the Groups strengthen the Groups capital or leverage position.
Basel III and CRD IV income arising from non-trading activity.
have increased the amount and quality of capital that the Group is The Group has exposure to non-traded interest rate risk, arising from required to hold.
While CRD IV requirements are now in force in the the provision of retail and wholesale non-traded banking products United Kingdom, changes to capital requirements can still occur, and services.
This includes current accounts and equity balances which whether as a result of further changes by EU legislators, binding do not have a defined maturity date and an interest rate that does not regulatory technical standards being developed by the European change in line with base rate changes.
The level and volatility of interest Banking Authority EBA or changes to the PRA interpretation and rates can impact the Groups net interest margin, which is the interest application of these requirements to UK banks.
Such changes, either rate spread earned between lending and borrowing costs.
The potential individually and or in aggregate, may lead to further unexpected for future volatility and margin changes remains in key areas such as in enhanced requirements in relation to the Groups CRD IV capital.
the UK benchmark interest rate, to the extent such volatility and margin Additional capital requirements will also arise from other regulatory changes are not entirely neutralised by hedging programmes.
reforms, including both UK, EU and US proposals on bank structural The Group is also at risk from movements in foreign currency exchange reform, current EBA Minimum Requirement for own funds and Eligible rates as these will impact the sterling equivalent value of foreign Liabilities MREL, proposals under the EU Bank Recovery and currency denominated assets in the banking book, and therefore Resolution Directive BRRD and Financial Stability Board FSB Total exposing the Group to currency translation risk.
Loss-Absorbing Capacity TLAC proposals for Globally Systemically Important Banks G-SIBs.
Given many of the proposals are still in draft While the impact is difficult to predict with any accuracy, failure to form and subject to change, the impact is still being assessed.
Barclays appropriately manage the Groups balance sheet to take account of is participating in an FSB Quantitative Impact Study QIS to determine these risks could have an adverse effect on the Groups financial the quantum and composition of TLAC requirements.
However, it is prospects due to reduced income and volatility of the regulatory capital likely that these changes in law and regulation will have an impact on measures.
the Group as they would require changes to the legal entity structure of the Group and how businesses are capitalised and funded.
Any such iii Adverse movements in the pension fund increased capital requirements may also constrain the Groups planned Adverse movements between pension assets and liabilities for defined activities, lead to forced asset sales and balance sheet reductions and benefits pension schemes could contribute to a pension deficit.
The could increase the Groups costs, impact on the Groups earnings and liabilities discount rate is a Key Risk and, in accordance with restrict the Groups ability to pay dividends.
Moreover, during periods of International Financial Reporting Standards IAS 19, is derived from market dislocation, or when there is significant competition for the the yields of high quality corporate bonds deemed to be those with type of funding that the Group needs, increasing the Groups capital AA ratings and consequently includes exposure to both risk-free yields resources in order to meet targets may prove more difficult and or costly.
Therefore, the Groups defined benefits scheme valuation would be adversely affected by a prolonged fall in the ii Being unable to meet its obligations as they fall due discount rate or a persistent low rate environment.
Inflation is another Should the Group fail to manage its liquidity and funding risk key risk driver to the pension fund, as the net position could be sufficiently, this may result in the Group, either not having sufficient negatively impacted by an increase in long term inflation expectation.
financial resources available to meet its payment obligations as they fall due or, although solvent, only being able to meet these obligations at iv Non-Core assets excessive cost.
This could cause the Group to fail to meet regulatory As part of the assets in the Non-Core business, the Group holds a UK liquidity standards, be unable to support day to day banking activities portfolio of generally longer term loans to counterparties in Education, or no longer be a going concern.
Social Housing and Local Authorities ESHLA sectors which are 118 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information iii Rating agency methodology changes emerging risk Failure to adequately manage cyber security risk and continually review During 2015, credit rating agencies are expected to complete their and update current processes in response to new threats could reviews and revisions of their ratings of banks by country to address adversely affect the Groups reputation, operations, financial condition the agencies perception of the impact of ongoing regulatory changes and prospects.
The range of impacts includes increased fraud losses, designed to improve the resolvability of banks in a manner that customer detriment, regulatory censure and penalty, legal liability and minimises systemic risk, such that the likelihood of extraordinary potential reputational damage.
sovereign support for a failing bank is less predictable, as well as to address the finalisation of revised capital and leverage rules under CRD ii Infrastructure and technology resilience IV.
Following their review, Standard and Poors downgraded Barclays The Groups technological infrastructure is critical to the operation of PLCs long-term rating in February 2015 and placed Barclays Bank the Groups businesses and delivery of products and services to PLCs longand short-term ratings on credit watch with negative customers and clients.
Sustained disruption in a customers access to implications.
While the overall outcome of the proposed changes in their key account information or delays in making payments could have bank ratings methodologies, and the related review of ratings for a significant impact on the Groups reputation and may also lead to removal of sovereign support, remains uncertain, there is a risk that any potentially large costs to both rectify the issue and reimburse losses potential rating downgrades could impact the Groups performance incurred by customers.
should borrowing cost and liquidity change significantly versus expectations or the credit spreads of the Group be negatively affected.
iii Ability to hire and retain appropriately qualified employees The Group is largely dependent on highly skilled and qualified For further information on the effect of a downgrade please refer to individuals.
Therefore, the Groups continued ability to manage and Credit Ratings in the Liquidity Risk Performance section on page 203. grow its business, to compete effectively and to respond to an increasingly complex regulatory environment is dependent on iv Adverse changes in foreign exchange rates on capital ratios attracting new talented and diverse employees and retaining The Group has capital resources and risk weighted assets denominated in appropriately qualified employees.
foreign currencies and changes in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely impact the sterling equivalent value of foreign currency In particular, as the Group continues to implement changes to its denominated capital resources and risk weighted assets.
As a result, the compensation structures in response to new legislation, there is a risk Groups regulatory capital ratios are sensitive to foreign currency that some employees may decide to leave the Group.
Failure to appropriately manage the Groups balance sheet to particularly evident among those employees who are impacted by take account of this risk could result in an adverse impact on regulatory changes to deferral structures and new claw back arrangements.
While the impact is difficult to predict with any accuracy it Additionally, colleagues who have specialist sets of skills within control may have a material adverse effect on the Groups operations as a result functions or within specific geographies that are currently in high of a failure in maintaining appropriate capital and leverage ratios.
demand may also decide to leave the Group as competitors seek to attract top industry talent to their own organisations.
Finally, the impact of regulatory changes such as the introduction of the Individual Operational risk Accountabilities Regime, under which greater individual responsibility The operational risk profile of the Group may change as a result of and accountability will be imposed on senior managers and nonhuman factors, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, executives of UK banks and the structural reform of banking, may also and external events.
reduce the attractiveness of the financial services industry to high calibre candidates in specific geographies.
The Group is exposed to many types of operational risk, including fraudulent and other criminal activities both internal and external, the Failure by the Group to prevent the departure of appropriately qualified risk of breakdowns in processes, controls or procedures or their employees, to retain qualified staff who are dedicated to oversee and inadequacy relative to the size and scope of the Groups business, manage current and future regulatory standards and expectations, or systems failure or an attempt, by an external party, to make a service or to quickly and effectively replace such employees, could negatively supporting infrastructure unavailable to its intended users, known as a impact the Groups results of operations, financial condition, prospects denial of service attack, and the risk of geopolitical cyber threat activity and level of employee engagement.
destabilising or destroying the Groups IT or critical infrastructure the Group depends upon but does not control in support of critical iv Critical accounting estimates and judgements economic business functions.
The Group is also subject to the risk of The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS disruption of its business arising from events that are wholly or partially requires the use of estimates.
It also requires management to exercise beyond its control for example natural disasters, acts of terrorism, judgement in applying relevant accounting policies.
The key areas epidemics and transport or utility failures which may give rise to losses involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where or reductions in service to customers and or economic loss to the assumptions are significant to the consolidated and individual financial Group.
The operational risks that the Group is exposed to could change statements, include credit impairment charges for amortised cost rapidly and there is no guarantee that the Groups processes, controls, assets, impairment and valuation of available for sale investments, procedures and systems are sufficient to address, or could adapt calculation of current and deferred tax, fair value of financial promptly to, such changing risks.
All of these risks are also applicable instruments, valuation of provisions and accounting for pensions and where the Group relies on outside suppliers or vendors to provide post-retirement benefits.
There is a risk that if the judgement exercised services to it and its customers.
or the estimates or assumptions used subsequently turn out to be incorrect then this could result in significant loss to the Group, beyond i Cyber attacks emerging risk that anticipated or provided for.
The threat posed by cyber attacks continues to grow and the banking The further development of standards and interpretations under IFRS industry has suffered major cyber attacks during the year.
Activists, could also significantly impact the financial results, condition and nation states, criminal gangs, insiders and opportunists are among prospects of the Group.
For example, the introduction of IFRS 9 those targeting computer systems.
Given the increasing sophistication Financial Instruments is likely to have a material impact on the and scope of potential cyber attack, it is possible that future attacks measurement and impairment of financial instruments held.
may lead to significant breaches of security.
The occurrence of one or more of such events may jeopardise the Group or the Groups clients For more information please refer to Accounting Policy and Critical or counterparties confidential and other information processed and Estimates on pages 262 to 264. stored in, and transmitted through, the Groups computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in the Groups, clients, counterparties or third parties operations, which could impact their ability to transact with the Group or otherwise result in significant losses or reputational damage.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 119 Risk review Material existing and emerging risks Material existing and emerging risks to the Groups future performance v Legal, competition and regulatory matters approach to supervision and oversight, increased expectations and Legal disputes, regulatory investigations, fines and other sanctions enhanced requirements, including with regard to: i capital, liquidity relating to conduct of business and financial crime may negatively and leverage requirements for example arising from Basel III and CRD affect the Groups results, reputation and ability to conduct its business.
IV : ii structural reform and recovery and resolution planning: and iii market infrastructure reforms such as the clearing of over-the-counter The Group conducts diverse activities in a highly regulated global derivatives.
As a result, regulatory risk will continue to be a focus of market and therefore is exposed to the risk of fines and other sanctions senior management attention and consume significant levels of relating to the conduct of its business.
In recent years there has been business resources.
Furthermore, this more intensive approach and the an increased willingness on the part of authorities to investigate past enhanced requirements, uncertainty and extent of international practices, vigorously pursue alleged breaches and impose heavy regulatory coordination as enhanced supervisory standards are penalties on financial services firms: this trend is expected to continue.
developed and implemented may adversely affect the Groups business, In relation to financial crime, a breach of applicable legislation and or capital and risk management strategies and or may result in the Group regulations could result in the Group or its staff being subject to deciding to modify its legal entity structure, capital and funding criminal prosecution, regulatory censure and other sanctions in the structures and business mix or to exit certain business activities jurisdictions in which it operates, particularly in the UK and US.
Where altogether or to determine not to expand in areas despite their clients, customers or other third parties are harmed by the Groups otherwise attractive potential.
conduct this may also give rise to legal proceedings, including class actions, particularly in the US.
Other legal disputes may also arise For further information see Regulatory Developments in the section on between the Group and third parties relating to matters such as Supervision and Regulation.
breaches, enforcement of legal rights or obligations arising under contracts, statutes or common law.
Adverse findings in any such b Additional PRA supervisory expectations, including changes to CRD matters may result in the Group being liable to third parties seeking IV emerging risk damages, or may result in the Groups rights not being enforced as The Groups results and ability to conduct its business may be intended.
negatively affected by changes to CRD IV or additional supervisory expectations.
Details of material legal, competition, and regulatory matters to which the Group is currently exposed are set out in Note 29 Legal, To protect financial stability the Financial Policy Committee of the Bank of England FPC has legal powers to make recommendations about Competition and Regulatory Matters.
In addition to those material ongoing matters, the Group is engaged in numerous other legal the application of prudential requirements.
In addition, it may, for example, be given powers to direct the PRA and FCA to adjust capital proceedings in various jurisdictions which arise in the ordinary course of business, as well as being subject to requests for information, requirements through Sectoral Capital Requirements SCR.
Directions would apply to all UK banks and building societies, rather than to the investigations and other reviews by regulators and other authorities in connection with business activities in which the Group is or has been Group specifically.
The FPC issued its review of the leverage ratio in October 2014 containing a requirement of a minimum leverage ratio of engaged.
In light of the uncertainties involved in legal, competition and regulatory matters, there can be no assurance that the outcome of a 3% to supersede the previous PRA expectation of a 3% leverage ratio.
That review also introduced a supplementary leverage ratio for G-SIBs particular matter or matters will not be material to the Groups results of operations or cash flow for a particular period, depending on, among to be implemented from 2016 and countercyclical leverage ratio buffers would be implemented at the same time as countercyclical buffers are other things, the amount of the loss resulting from the matter s and the amount of income otherwise reported for the period.
The outcome of material legal, competition and regulatory matters, Changes to CRD IV requirements, UK regulators interpretations of both those to which the Group is currently exposed and any others them, or additional supervisory expectations, either individually or in which may arise in the future, is difficult to predict.
However, it is likely aggregate, may lead to unexpected enhanced requirements in relation that in connection with any such matters the Group will incur to the Groups capital, leverage, liquidity and funding ratios or alter the significant expense, regardless of the ultimate outcome, and one or way such ratios are calculated.
This may result in a need for further more of such matters could expose the Group to any of the following: management actions to meet the changed requirements, such as: substantial monetary damages and or fines: remediation of affected increasing capital or liquidity resources, reducing leverage and risk customers and clients: other penalties and injunctive relief: additional weighted assets: modifying legal entity structure including with regard litigation: criminal prosecution in certain circumstances: the loss of any to issuance and deployment of capital and funding for the Group : existing agreed protection from prosecution: regulatory restrictions on changing the Groups business mix or exiting other businesses: and or the Groups business including the withdrawal of authorisations: undertaking other actions to strengthen the Groups position.
increased regulatory compliance requirements: suspension of operations: public reprimands: loss of significant assets or business: a c Market infrastructure reforms negative effect on the Groups reputation: loss of investor confidence: The European Market Infrastructure Regulation EMIR introduces and or dismissal resignation of key individuals.
requirements to improve transparency and reduce the risks associated with the derivatives market.
Certain of these requirements came into There is also a risk that the outcome of any legal, competition or force in 2013 and 2014 and still more will become effective in 2015. regulatory matters in which the Group is involved may give rise to EMIR requires EU-established entities that enter into any form of changes in law or regulation as part of a wider response by relevant law derivative contract to: report every derivative contract entered into to a makers and regulators.
An adverse decision in any one matter, either trade repository: implement new risk management standards for all against the Group or another financial institution facing similar claims, bilateral over-the-counter derivative trades that are not cleared by a could lead to further claims against the Group.
central counterparty: and clear, through a central counterparty, over-the-counter derivatives that are subject to a mandatory clearing vi Risks arising from regulatory change and scrutiny obligation although this clearing obligation will only apply to certain The financial services industry continues to be the focus of significant counterparties.
regulatory change and scrutiny which may adversely affect the Groups CRD IV aims to complement EMIR by applying higher capital business, financial performance, capital and risk management strategies.
requirements for bilateral, over-the-counter derivative trades.
Lower capital requirements for cleared trades are only available if the central a Regulatory change counterparty is recognised as a qualifying central counterparty, which has been authorised or recognised under EMIR in accordance with The Group, in common with much of the financial services industry, continues to be subject to significant levels of regulatory change and related binding technical standards.
Further significant market infrastructure reforms will be introduced by amendments to the EU increasing scrutiny in many of the countries in which it operates including, in particular, the UK and the US and in light of its significant Markets in Financial Instruments Directive that are expected to be implemented in 2016. investment banking operations.
This has led to a more intensive 120 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information In the US, the Dodd-Frank Act also mandates that many types of by such entities.
The rules will also require the Group to develop derivatives that were previously traded in the over-the-counter markets an extensive compliance and monitoring programme both inside must be traded on an exchange or swap execution facility and must be and outside of the US, subject to various executive officer centrally cleared through a regulated clearing house.
In addition, attestation requirements, addressing proprietary trading and participants in these markets are now made subject to Commodity covered fund activities, and the Group therefore expects Futures Trading Commission CFTC and Securities and Exchange compliance costs to increase.
The final rule is highly complex and Commission SEC regulation and oversight.
its full impact will not be known with certainty until market practices and structures develop under it.
Subject entities are generally It is possible that other additional regulations, and the related expenses required to be in compliance with the prohibition on proprietary and requirements, will increase the cost of and restrict participation in trading and the requirement to develop an extensive compliance the derivative markets, thereby increasing the costs of engaging in programme by July 2015 with certain provisions subject to possible hedging or other transactions and reducing liquidity and the use of the extensions.
These laws and regulations and the way in which they are interpreted Changes in regulation of the derivative markets could adversely affect and implemented by regulators may have a number of significant the business of the Group and its affiliates in these markets and could consequences, including changes to the legal entity structure of the make it more difficult and expensive to conduct hedging and trading Group, changes to how and where capital and funding is raised and activities, which could in turn reduce the demand for swap dealer and deployed within the Group, increased requirements for loss-absorbing similar services of the Group and its subsidiaries.
In addition, as a result capacity within the Group and or at the level of certain legal entities or of these increased costs, the new regulation of the derivative markets sub-groups within the Group and potential modifications to the may also result in the Group deciding to reduce its activity in these business mix and model including potential exit of certain business markets.
These and other regulatory changes and the resulting actions taken to address such regulatory changes, may have an adverse d Structural reform and bank recovery and resolution impact on the Groups profitability, operating flexibility, flexibility of A number of jurisdictions have enacted or are considering legislation deployment of capital and funding, return on equity, ability to pay and rulemaking that could have a significant impact on the structure, dividends and or financial condition.
It is not yet possible to predict the business risk and management of the Group and of the financial detail of such legislation or regulatory rulemaking or the ultimate services industry more generally.
Detailed information on the provisions consequences to the Group which could be material.
set out below can be found in Regulatory Developments paragraphs in the section on Supervision and Regulation.
e Regulatory action in the event of a bank failure Key developments that are relevant to the Group include: The UK Banking Act 2009, as amended the Banking Act provides for a regime to allow the Bank of England or, in certain circumstances, HM The UK Financial Services Banking Reform Act 2013 the Banking Treasury to resolve failing banks in the UK.
Under the Banking Act, Reform Act, gives UK authorities the power to implement key these authorities are given powers to make share transfer orders and recommendations of the Independent Commission on Banking, property transfer orders.
Following the Banking Reform Act the including the separation of the UK and EEA retail banking activities of authorities will also have at their disposal a statutory bail-in power.
This the largest UK banks into a legally, operationally and economically bail-in power, when it is made available to the UK resolution authority, separate and independent entity so-called ring fencing.
It is will enable it to recapitalise a failed institution by allocating losses to its expected that banks will have to comply with these ring-fencing shareholders and unsecured creditors.
The bail-in power will enable the requirements from January 2019: UK resolution authority to cancel liabilities or modify the terms of The European Commission structural reform proposals of January contracts for the purposes of reducing or deferring the liabilities of the bank under resolution and the power to convert liabilities into another 2014 which are still in discussion for a directive to implement recommendations of the EU High Level Expert Group Review the form e. g. shares.
In addition to the bail-in power, the powers granted to the relevant UK resolution authority under the Banking Act include Liikanen Review.
The directive would apply to EU globally significant financial institutions: the power to: i direct the sale of the relevant financial institution or the whole or part of its business on commercial terms without Implementation of the requirement to create a US intermediate requiring the consent of the shareholders or complying with the holding company IHC structure to hold its US banking and procedural requirements that would otherwise apply: ii transfer all or non-banking subsidiaries, including Barclays Capital Inc. the Groups part of the business of the relevant financial institution to a bridge US broker-dealer subsidiary.
The IHC will generally be subject to bank a publicly controlled entity : and iii transfer the impaired or supervision and regulation, including as to regulatory capital and problem assets of the relevant financial institution to an asset stress testing, by the Federal Reserve Bank FRB as if it were a US management vehicle to allow them to be managed over time.
The EU bank holding company of comparable size.
The Group will be Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive BRRD contains provisions required to form its IHC by 1 July 2016.
The IHC will be subject to the similar to the Banking Act on a European level, many of which augment US generally applicable minimum leverage capital requirement and increase the powers available to regulators in the event of a bank which is different than to Basel III international leverage ratio, failure.
Further, parallel developments at international level may result including to the extent that the generally applicable US leverage ratio in increased risks for banks, for example the Financial Stability Board does not include off-balance sheet exposures starting 1 January FSB proposals for harmonising key principles for TLAC globally.
The Group continues to evaluate the implications of the FRBs IHC final rules issued in February 2014 for the Group.
Nevertheless, If these powers were to be exercised or there is an increased risk of the Group currently believes that, in the aggregate, the final rules exercise in respect of the Group or any entity within the Group such and, in particular, the leverage requirements in the final rules that exercise could result in a material adverse effect on the rights or will be applicable to the IHC in 2018 are likely to increase the interests of shareholders and creditors including holders of debt operational costs and capital requirements and or require changes securities and or could have a material adverse effect on the market to the business mix of the Groups US operations, which ultimately price of shares and other securities issued by the Group.
Such effects may have an adverse effect on the Groups overall result of could include losses of shareholdings associated rights including by operations: and the dilution of percentage ownership of the Groups share capital, and may result in creditors, including debt holders, losing all or a part of Implementation of the so-called Volcker Rule under the Dodd-Frank their investment in the Groups securities that could be subject to such Act.
The Volcker Rule, once fully effective, will prohibit banking powers.
entities, including Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and their various subsidiaries and affiliates from undertaking certain proprietary trading activities and will limit the sponsorship of, and investment in, private equity funds and hedge funds, in each case broadly defined, barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 121 Risk review Material existing and emerging risks Material existing and emerging risks to the Groups future performance f Recovery and resolution planning Furthermore, the Groups brand may be adversely impacted from any There continues to be a strong regulatory focus on resolvability from association, action or inaction which is perceived by stakeholders to be international and UK regulators.
The Group made its first formal inappropriate or unethical and not in keeping with the Groups stated Recovery and Resolution Plan RRP submissions to the UK and US purpose and values.
regulators in mid-2012 and has continued to work with the relevant Failure to appropriately manage these risks and the potential negative authorities to identify and address impediments to resolvability.
impact to the Groups reputation may reduce, directly or indirectly, the attractiveness of the Group to stakeholders, including customers and In the UK, RRP work is now considered part of continuing supervision.
Removal of barriers to resolution will be considered as part of the PRAs clients.
Furthermore, such a failure may undermine market integrity and result in detriment to the Groups clients, customers, supervisory strategy for each firm, and the PRA can require firms to make significant changes in order to enhance resolvability.
counterparties or employees leading to remediation of affected customers by the Group.
In the US, Barclays is one of several systemically important banks as one of the so-called first wave filers required to file resolution plans with the Federal Reserve and the FDIC under provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.
The regulators provided feedback in August 2014 with respect to the 2013 resolution plans submitted by first wave filers.
This feedback required such filers to make substantive improvements to their plans for filing in 2015 or face potential punitive actions which, in extremis, could lead to forced divestitures or reductions in operational footprints in the US.
Barclays is working with its regulators to address these issues and will file its revised plan in June 2015.
It is uncertain when or in what form US regulators will review and assess Barclays US resolution plan filing.
In South Africa, the South African Treasury and the South Africa Reserve Bank are considering material new legislation and regulation to adopt a resolution and depositor guarantee scheme in alignment with FSB principles.
BAGL and Absa Bank will be subject to these schemes as they are adopted.
It is not clear what shape these schemes will take or when they will be adopted, but current proposals for a funded deposit insurance scheme and for operational continuity could result in material new expense impacts for the BAGL group.
Whilst the Group believes that it is making good progress in reducing impediments to resolution, should the relevant authorities ultimately decide that the Group or any significant subsidiary is not resolvable, the impact of such structural changes whether in connection with RRP or other structural reform initiatives could impact capital, liquidity and leverage ratios, as well as the overall profitability of the Group, for example via duplicated infrastructure costs, lost cross-rate revenues and additional funding costs.
Conduct risk Any inappropriate judgements or actions taken by the Group, in the execution of business activities or otherwise, may adversely impact the Group or its employees.
In addition, any such actions may have a detrimental impact on the Groups customers, clients or counterparties.
Such judgements or actions may negatively impact the Group in a number of ways including, for example, negative publicity and consequent erosion of reputation, loss of revenue, imposition of fines, litigation, higher scrutiny and or intervention from regulators, regulatory or legislative action, loss of existing or potential client business, criminal and civil penalties and other damages, reduced workforce morale, and difficulties in recruiting and retaining talent.
The Group may self-identify incidents of inappropriate judgement which might include non-compliance with regulatory requirements where consumers have suffered detriment leading to remediation of affected customers.
There are a number of areas where the Group has sustained financial and reputational damage from previous periods and where the consequences continued in 2014 and are likely to have further adverse effects in 2015 and possibly beyond.
Further details on current regulatory investigations are provided in Note 29 Legal, Competition and Regulatory Matters.
As a global financial services firm, the Group is subject to the risks associated with money laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and corruption and economic sanctions and may be adversely impacted if it does not adequately mitigate the risk that its employees or third parties facilitate or that its products and services may be used to facilitate financial crime activities.
122 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
