53 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 53 Risk management Maintaining clarity.
Andrew Pryde Chief risk officer 2014 in review Risk management frameworks continue to evolve across the insurance industry.
Although implementation varies according to level of sophistication and complexity, the fundamental purpose is identical: to ensure that a business is well run.
Beazleys risk management framework, which has been in operation in its current design since 2010, continues to operate effectively providing clear, timely and trusted risk information to the boards.
Whilst it has continued to evolve, there have been no major changes to the framework in 2014.
When we have explored adding complexity to the design, we have found that the clarity of reporting deteriorates, which would reduce the main benefit to the board.
As at 31 December 2014, all entities in the Beazley group are within risk appetite and there are sufficient financial resources and personnel to deliver the groups business plan.
The enterprise-wide implementation of the framework helps the board maintain oversight of the risks and opportunities from continued investment across the group, such as growth in our US operations.
To support this we have two experienced risk managers located in the US, who travel regularly to our US offices to help the business identify and manage their risks and ensure that our culture of risk awareness is cascaded and maintained.
In 2014, we reviewed the potential risks associated with our infrastructure to ensure that, although they dont currently present a problem, they dont become an emerging risk over time as the business continues to grow.
The risk team have produced a number of risk profiles, which are focused risk assessments of specific topics.
In 2014, we investigated the risks associated with travelling staff and the risks associated with cloud computing.
We also reviewed our reserving process to confirm that it continues to produce an appropriate and consistent claims reserve for the financial statements.
Finally, we updated the risk profile on our Beazley Breach Response product which dated back to 2012.
This review will now be performed on an annual basis to provide the board with assurance that the underwriting approach remains appropriate against the backdrop of the relatively fast pace of developments in cyber.
The quarterly Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA report has been a feature at Beazley boards since 2010 and remains a valuable tool for the directors to understand current and prospective risks and the associated capital requirements.
For the last three years, the capital required to support the business has been determined using the Solvency II capital model.
This internal model has been designed around Beazleys risk profile, with particular focus on the two key risks of managing the market pricing cycle related to our medium tailed specialty lines business and the natural catastrophe exposure from our short tailed classes.
The design principle has remained unchanged since it was first introduced in 2004.
As such, most board members and senior management have been part of its design, implementation and operation which means that it is understood and used with confidence as part of managing the business.
The total number of times the model was used in 2014 was 81, examples of its use include business planning, reinsurance purchasing, and monitoring risk appetite.
The capital models longevity also means that we now have over ten years of Beazley specific data so we can compare actual experience against expected model output to supplement the 50 years of market data we use in its parameterisation.
In 2014, we have focused our review on ensuring the dependencies how the different risks within the model interact are understood and appropriately reflect what might happen in reality.
Dependencies in a capital model are a key area of judgement because of the lack of actual data available.
As a result they have to be extrapolated.
Beazley uses a driver of risk approach where interactions are modelled explicitly rather than applying statistical assumptions between all assumptions.
This focuses board discussions on the interactions which are most likely to have a detrimental impact on the business model.
With so much risk and capital information available to boards and senior management today it is essential they receive the right level of information, analysis and interpretation to help them manage risk.
com 54 Beazley Annual report 2014 Risk management continued Risk management philosophy Beazleys risk management philosophy is to balance the risks the business takes on with the associated cost of controlling these risks, whilst also operating within the risk appetite agreed by the board.
In addition, our risk management processes are designed to continuously monitor our risk profile against risk appetite and to exploit opportunities as they arise.
Risk management strategy The Beazley plc board has delegated executive oversight of the risk management department to the executive committee, which in turn has delegated immediate oversight to the risk and regulatory committee.
The Beazley plc board has also delegated oversight of the risk management framework to the audit and risk committee and the primary regulated subsidiary boards have established a board risk committee.
Clear roles, responsibilities and accountabilities are in place for the management of risks and controls, and all employees are aware of the role they play in all aspects of the risk management process, from identifying sources of risk to their part in the control environment.
The impact of each risk is recorded in the risk register on a 1:10 likelihood of that risk manifesting in the next 12 months.
A risk owner has been assigned responsibility for each risk, and it is the responsibility of that individual to periodically assess the impact of the risk and to ensure appropriate risk mitigation procedures are in place.
External factors facing the business and the internal controls in place are routinely reassessed and changes are made when necessary.
On an annual basis, the board agrees the risk appetite for each risk event and this is documented in the risk framework document.
The residual financial impact is managed in a number of ways, including: mitigating the impact of the risk through the application of controls: transferring or sharing risk through outsourcing and purchasing insurance and reinsurance: and tolerating risk in line with the risk appetite.
In addition, the following risk management principles have been adopted: risk management is a part of the wider governance environment: techniques employed are fit for purpose and proportionate to the business: it is a core capability for all employees: risk management is embedded in day-to-day activities: there is a culture of risk awareness, in which risks are identified, assessed and managed: risk management processes are robust and supported by verifiable management information: and risk management information and reporting is timely, clear, accurate and appropriately escalated.
Risk management framework Beazley has adopted the three lines of defence framework: namely business risk management, the risk management function and the internal audit function.
Within business risk management, there are three defined risk and control roles: risk owner, control owner and control reporter.
Each risk event is owned by the risk owner who is a senior member of staff.
Risk owners, supported by the risk management team, formally perform a risk assessment twice a year, including an assessment of heightened and emerging risks.
Business risk management Risk management Internal audit Risk ownership Risk oversight Risk assurance Identifies risk Are risks being identified?
Independently tests control design Assesses risk Are controls operating effectively?
Independently tests control operation Mitigates risk Are controls being signed off?
Reports to committees and board Monitors risk Reports to committees and board Records status Remediates when required www.
com 54 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 55 The risk management framework comprises a number of risk management components, which when added together describe how risk is managed on a day to day basis.
The framework includes a risk register that captures the risk universe 56 risk events grouped into eight risk categories: insurance, market, credit, liquidity, operational, regulatory and legal, group and strategic, the risk appetite set by the Beazley plc board, and the control environment that is operated by the business to remain within the risk appetite.
The following diagram illustrates the components of the risk management framework.
Risk appetite Risk assessment Stress and scenario framework Risk profiles Strategic and emerging risk annual biannual annual ad hoc annual Control assessment Risk register monthly Key risk indicators Control performance Internal model quarterly aggregation monthly Risk incidents Consolidated assurance Committees reporting report 1st line: Underwriting, Investment, Operations, Executive committees 2nd line: Risk and regulatory, Risk committees 3rd line: Audit committees Boards In summary, the board identifies risk, assesses risk and sets risk appetite.
The business then implements a control environment which describes how the business should operate to stay within risk appetite.
Risk management then reports to the board on how well the business is operating using a consolidated assurance report.
For each risk, the consolidated assurance report brings together a view of how successfully the business is managing risk, qualitative commentary from the assurance function and whether there have been any events that we can learn from risk incidents.
Finally, the framework is continually improved, through the consideration of stress and scenario testing, themed reviews using risk profiles and an assessment of strategic and emerging risks.
A suite of risk management reports are provided to the boards and committees to assist senior management and board members to discharge their decision making responsibilities.
The risk reports include the risk appetite statement, the consolidated assurance report, risk profiles, stress and scenario testing, reverse stress testing, an emerging and strategic report, a report to the remuneration committee and the ORSA report.
The internal audit function considers the risk management framework in the development of its audit universe to determine its annual risk-based audit plan.
The plan is based on, among other inputs, the inherent and residual risk scores as captured in the risk register.
Finally, a feedback loop operates, with recommendations from the internal audit reviews being assessed by the business and the risk management function for inclusion in the risk register as appropriate.
com 56 Beazley Annual report 2014 Risk management continued The risks to financial performance The board monitors and manages risks grouped into Reserve risk: Beazley has a consistent and conservative eight categories which cover the universe of risk that could reserving philosophy.
However, there is a risk that the affect Beazley, and considers the following two to be the reserves put aside for expected losses turn out to be most significant.
This could be due to any of the three drivers of risk described above.
The group uses a range of techniques Insurance risk to mitigate this risk including a detailed reserving process Given the nature of Beazleys business, the key risks that which compares, claim by claim, estimates established by impact financial performance arise from insurance activities.
the claim team with a top down statistical view developed The main insurance risks can be summarised in the by the actuarial team.
A suite of metrics is also used to following categories: ensure consistency each year.
Market cycle risk: The risk of systematic mispricing of the Single risk losses: Given the size of policy limits offered medium tailed specialty lines business which could arise on each risk, it is unlikely that the poor performance due to a change in the US tort environment, changes to of one policy will have a material impact on the groups the supply and demand of capital, and companies using financial performance.
incomplete data to make decisions.
This risk would affect multiple classes within the specialty lines division across Strategic risk a number of underwriting years.
The group uses a range Alongside these insurance risks, the success of the group of techniques to mitigate this risk including sophisticated depends on the execution of an appropriate strategy.
pricing tools, analysis of macro trends, analysis of claim The main strategic risks can be summarised as follows: frequency and the expertise of our experienced Strategic decisions: The groups performance would be underwriters and claims managers.
affected in the event of making strategic decisions that Natural catastrophe risk: The risk of one large event caused do not add value.
The group mitigates this risk through by nature affecting a number of policies and therefore giving the combination of recommendations and challenge from rise to multiple losses.
Given Beazleys risk profile, this non-executive directors, debate at the executive committee could be a hurricane, major windstorm or earthquake.
This and input from the strategy and performance group a group risk is monitored using exposure management techniques of approximately 30 senior individuals from across different to ensure that the risk and reward are appropriate and that disciplines at Beazley.
the exposure is not overly concentrated in one area.
Environment: There is a risk that the chosen strategy Non natural catastrophe risk: This risk is similar to natural cannot be executed because of the current environmental catastrophe risk except that multiple losses arise from conditions within which Beazley operates, thereby delaying one event caused by mankind.
Given Beazleys risk profile, the timing of the strategy.
examples include an act of terrorism, an act of war or Communication: Having the right strategy and environment a political event.
This risk is monitored using exposure is of little value if it is not communicated internally so that management techniques to ensure that the risk and the whole group is heading in the same direction, or if key reward are appropriate and that the exposure is not external stakeholders are not aware of Beazleys progress overly concentrated in one area.
com 56 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 57 Senior management performance: There is a risk that Other risks senior management is overstretched or does not perform, The remaining six risk categories monitored by the board are: which would have a detrimental impact on the groups Market asset risk: This is the risk that the value of performance.
The performance of the senior management investments is adversely impacted by movements team is monitored by the CEO and talent management team in interest rates, exchange rates, default rates or and overseen by the nomination committee.
This risk is monitored by the Reputation: Although reputational risk is a consequential investment committee.
risk, i. e. it emerges upon the occurrence of another risk Operational risk: This risk is the failure of people, processes manifesting, it has the potential to have a significant and systems or the impact of an external event on Beazleys impact on an organisation.
Beazley expects its staff to act operations and is monitored by the operations committee.
honourably one of seven ingredients of Being Beazley Credit risk: Beazley has credit risk to its reinsurers, brokers by doing the right thing.
and coverholders of which the reinsurance asset is the Flight risk: There is a risk that Beazley is unable to deliver largest.
The underwriting committee monitors this risk.
its strategy due to the loss of key personnel.
Beazley has Regulatory and legal risk: This is the risk that Beazley does controls in place to identify and monitor this risk, for not operate in line with the relevant regulatory framework in example, through succession planning.
the territories where it operates.
Of the eight risk categories, Crisis management: This is the risk caused by the the board has the lowest tolerance for this risk.
destabilising effect of the group having to deal with a crisis Liquidity risk: This is the risk that the group does not and is mitigated by having a detailed crisis management plan.
have sufficient liquid funds following a catastrophic event.
Corporate transaction: There is a risk that Beazley The investment committee monitors this risk which, given undertakes a corporate transaction which does not return the nature of the asset portfolio, is currently small.
the expected value to shareholders.
This risk is mitigated Group risk: The structure of the Beazley group is not through the due diligence performed, the financial structure complex and so the main group risk is that one group entity of transactions and the implementation activity.
operates to the detriment of another group entity or entities.
Although this risk is currently small, the Beazley plc board Under the environmental risk heading, the board monitors five monitors this risk through the reports it receives from categories of emerging and strategic risk on a quarterly basis, each entity.
namely: socio-political risk, distribution, market conditions, talent and regulation.
