Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Group faces a number of business The Group has continued to enhance its and strategic, financial and operational risk framework and governance to provide risks inherent in the nature of the business a structured approach to identifying and it undertakes and the financial, market managing the risks to which it is exposed.
and regulatory environments in which Further details of the Risk Management it operates.
The Group recognises that Framework are set out in on page 45. understanding and managing these risks is The Board has undertaken an assessment central to successful delivery of strategy.
of the Groups principal risks and how they The Group has established a risk are managed or mitigated.
These are as management framework the main set out in the following table together with components of which are: a commentary on relevant developments in 2013 14.
Identification and evaluation of the principal risks to which the Group is exposed: Setting an appetite for the amount and type of risk that the Board is willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives: Maintaining governance, policies and other systems and controls to enable the Group to operate within its stated appetite for risk.
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties CONTINUED 2013 14 Risk Description Key Mitigators commentary Business & Strategic Risks There were no acquisitions or Acquisitions The risk that mergers, Correlation with key performance indicators, principal & disposals acquisitions or risks and strategic priorities disposals in 2013 14. divestments made Robust governance and challenge from independent by the Group do not Non-Executive Directors achieve stated strategic Independent legal, accounting, regulatory and objectives or give risk to commercial due diligence ongoing or previously Managing businesses in line with Group strategy unidentified liabilities.
onceacquired Business The risk that the Initiatives to develop service quality and focus on Completed move to sustainable model Groups business model higher margin Discretionary Investment Management pricing rates.
inadequately meets its complemented by Integrated Financial Planning services Strategic programme to simplify objectives or fails to Consistent pricing of services the business model continued in respond to changes in 2013 14.
Variable incentive pay linked to profitability the market resulting in Developed new sources of Diversified client base an adverse impact upon business such as intermediaries sustainable growth or Long-term client relationships and focus on personalised and new services such as MFS.
service A number of sub-scale branch offices were closed or consolidated into larger local centres.
Regulatory The risk that changes to Strategy to ensure the business model remains flexible There were no material regulatory changes that impacted the change the regulatory framework and responsive to changes in the regulatory framework the Group operates business model adversely in Regulation & Risk function advise on impact of regulatory 2013 14. within materially affects change the Groups business Active dialogue with regulators and industry bodies model, proposition, overheads or operations.
Reputation The risk of damage Strategy to not engage in controversial tax avoidance There were no material reputational issues in 2013 14. to the Groups schemes and extremely complex and high risk schemes brand or standing and services with shareholders, Relationship strategies including: regulators, existing and proactive engagement with the Groups regulators and potential clients, the active participation with trade and industry bodies industry and the public positive development of media and shareholder relations at large.
with strictly controlled media contact Client The risk that client Investment Governance Committee provides product The Group has embarked on a outcomes outcomes are and service governance including alignment with strategy, change programme to enhance insufficiently considered appetite for risk and client interests and outcomes our client experience.
The introduction of new processes as part of the Groups Implementation of new investment process supported by processes leading to for client engagement and enhanced technology service delivery underpinned by poor advice and or Training & competence and quality assurance suitability outcomes for new technology will, once fully management embedded, ensure that clients clients.
Oversight by Regulation & Risk function remain at the forefront of our considerations and will provide Treating customers fairly and other management information long-term value through the Effective independent handling of complaints provision of a more operationally efficient process.
28 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 2013 14 Risk Description Key Mitigators commentary Financial Risks Credit & The risk of a client, Most trading is delivery versus payment There were no material changes counterparty custodian or in 2013 14.
Controls limit trading on un-cleared balances counterparty failing Counterparty selection based upon rigorous due to fulfil contractual diligence obligations, including settlement, which results in financial loss.
Insurance The risk that an Primary insurance placed with financially secure There were no material changes insurance claim by the syndicates and insurers in 2013 14.
Group is declined in Comprehensive levels of cover maintained full or part or there is Rigorous claim management procedures insufficient insurance coverage.
Liquidity The risk of insufficient Conservative buffer of 150% of three months operating There were no material changes readily realisable costs maintained in cash or near cash instruments in 2013 14. financial resources to meet the Groups obligations as they fall due or access to liquid funds is not available on commercially viable terms.
Market The risk that the Groups Group does not trade as principal and does not take There were no material changes revenue or capital will market or currency risk other than to facilitate client in 2013 14. be adversely affected business by changes in the level or volatility market price or foreign currency exchange rates.
Pensions The risk that funding Scheme is closed to new members There were no material changes the obligations of the in 2013 14.
The triennial pension Agreed funding plan in place to eliminate current deficit Groups closed defined valuation will be performed over 5 years benefits pension in2015.
Trustees investment policy and assets matched to scheme materially liabilities affects the Groups capital or profitability.
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties CONTINUED 2013 14 Risk Description Key Mitigators commentary Operational Risks The Group has continued Business The risk that business Over-arching governance of business critical change change projects are programmes by Executive and Board scrutiny a programme of change to improve efficiencies, substantially ineffective, fail to deliver Third-party specialist help providing strong project stated objectives, or improve client data architecture management and technical skills and significantly enhance result in resources Engagement of key users in development, testing and being stretched to the processes for engaging with change advocacy clients.
Implementation of these detriment of business Communicate strategic benefits of change agenda and as usual activities.
programmes will continue into delivery to employees 2014 15.
Substantial post-implementation support and monitoring In May 2014, the Group reduced for business wide change programmes change management risks by curtailing further implementation of a new system into the branch network following an assessment concluding that the system was no longer sufficiently aligned to the Groups strategic objectives.
Business The risk that a physical Dedicated business continuity function within the Group There were no disaster recovery continuity business continuity or business continuity events Large branch network with appropriate disaster recovery & disaster event or system failure in 2013 14.
Further work is and continuity plans in place recovery results in a reduced expected to be undertaken Use of external premises to enhance resilience to a ability, or inability to in 2014 15 to improve testing disaster recovery or business continuity event perform core business capabilities.
Periodic testing of business continuity process and activities or processes.
disaster recovery Prompt response to significant systems failures or interruptions Information The risk of unauthorised Information Security team within Regulation and Risk A project to implement and data access to, or external function progressive improvements in security disclosure of, client or detection and prevention of cyber Data and system access controls company information.
risks was implemented in 2014 Risk and controls evaluation and enhancement project and is due to continue in 2015. inprogress Threat awareness in front office functions and close liaison with Financial Crime & Data Protection team inRegulation & Risk 30 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 2013 14 Risk Description Key Mitigators commentary Operational Risks continued Fraud The risk of unauthorised Centralised invoice processing The Group successfully blocked gain or transfer of a number of small-scale external Segregation of duties across the Group company or client fraud attempts during 2013 14.
Data and system access controls assets by any persons Payment authorisation controls internal or external to the Group.
Monitoring of payments and transfers Authorisation process for key functions dealing with clientor Group assets Responsive fraud investigation and reporting controls Comprehensive insurance cover Compliance The risk of regulatory Effective Regulation & Risk function The leadership and resource of sanction or legal the Regulation & Risk function Internal Audit function outsourced to a third party proceedings as a result was enhanced, beginning in professional services firm of failure to comply with 2012 13 and continuing through Effective regulatory risk oversight planning and regulatory, statutory or 2013 14. implementation fiduciary requirements, PwC were appointed to provide Comprehensive internal audit and compliance monitoring or as a result of a Internal Audit services and programmes defective transaction.
Controls for appointment and approval of staff holding The Group embarked upon a acontrolled function and annual declarations to establish programme of improvement ongoing fitness and propriety and simplification of its controls Governance and reporting of regulatory risks through relating to client assets and Client Asset Oversight Committee, Investment strengthening the Client Asset Governance Committee and Risk Management Oversight Committee.
This Committee programme is expected to continue into the first half of Independent third party reviews of client money and 2014 15. custody asset controls AML controls for client due diligence and sanctions checking Policies in place to manage conflicts of interest Legal The risk of loss to Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements No material legal proceedings commercial the Group primarily including relevant codes of practice were commenced against the litigation caused by a a defective Group in 2013 14.
Early engagement with legal advisers and other risk transaction: b a claim managers defence to a claim or Appropriately manage complaints which have a legal counterclaim which litigious aspect results in liability or An early assessment of the impact and implementation loss to BD: c failure of changes in the law to adequately protect assets owned by BD: or d a change in the law.
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties CONTINUED 2013 14 Risk Description Key Mitigators commentary Operational Risks continued Outsourcing The risk of third party Outsourcing employed only where there is tactical gain As noted, Internal Audit services and organisations inresource or expertise were outsourced to PwC.
No procurement inadequately or failing to other outsource arrangements Policy in place to perform effective outsource or service provide or perform the were entered into during 2013 14. supplier due diligence and to put effective contractual outsourced activities or arrangements and service level agreements in place contractual obligations to the standards required by the Group.
The risk of third party suppliers inadequately or failing to supply in accordance with their obligations.
People The risk of loss of Client relationships managed on a team basis to The Group will review its key staff, insufficient improveefficiency remuneration arrangements skilled resources in the light of FCA and other Succession arrangements and resource plans and inappropriate regulatory guidance published madeorindevelopment for key management roles behaviours or actions.
inAugust 2014. andgroups teams Performance management framework in place to develop, motivate and retain staff, reward appropriate behaviour Processing & The risk that the design Dedicated dealing function and supervision of The Group embarked on a systems or execution of business dealingstaff programme of improvement processes including and simplification of its business Monitoring and authorisation of high value trades dealing is inadequate processes relating to client asset Error warnings built into dealing systems or fails to deliver an management.
This programme Validations on equity trading platform expected level of service will continue into the first half of and protection to client 2014 15.
Monitoring of errors and losses and underlying cause or company assets.
Key system vendors subject to active relationship management and service supply monitoring Investment in system development and upgrade toimprove process automation Enhanced staff training and oversight in key business processing areas including client asset management Business simplification initiatives to increase efficiency and reduce risk of error and process failure 32 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
