60 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 RISK MANAGEMENT 2014 in focus We maintain a strong risk governance framework using Risk In 2014 the risk management team at Brit continued to Oversight Committees and Audit Committees consisting of operate an embedded risk management framework which independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Risk Oversight was coordinated around all key initiatives undertaken during Committees monitor and review the risk profile and the the year.
Some of the key reviews performed included: effectiveness of all risk management activities and, in particular, monitor adherence to agreed risk limits.
Our New business initiatives such as the acquisition of the internal audit function provides assurance to the Risk renewal rights of QBEs Lloyds aviation portfolio: Oversight Committees, Audit Committees and Boards, while external audits are regularly used for independent Commutation of a reinsurance contract relating to the assessments.
restructuring of the Group in 2012 see page 21 : Optimisation of the outwards reinsurance programme: and This governance structure is applicable at the Group and entity level and represents the three lines of defence Assessment of the hedging options to mitigate foreign operating at Brit.
Within the first line of defence individual exchange and interest rate risks.
risk committees monitor day-to-day risk control activities.
These reviews included qualitative risk assessments, risk appetite and capital implications using our internal model which continued to be developed in 2014 to ensure that it meets both regulatory and business use requirements.
The quarterly own risk and solvency assessment ORSA process continues to be used to communicate the risks across our Group and is seen as a valuable tool by management in understanding the risks that the Group faces.
RISK GOVERNANCE The risk management team has also been instrumental in the continued delivery of our Solvency II implementation.
In Risk Oversight Board Committee particular, significant improvements were made around the Oversight of all risk internal model approval such as further enhancements in the related matters modelling and validation to support the use of the model in our business.
There has been an increased regulatory Model Business Risk focus on Solvency II in 2014 and we have continued to make Governance strategy appetite significant progress with the Syndicate, which is now close Committee to full compliance, and in Gibraltar, where implementation Internal model oversight, Executive Management is well under way.
The risk management team played an governance and Committee instrumental role in continuing to build strong relationships reporting to Risk Oversight with regulators and engaging in on-going communication as Committee part of the regulatory review.
Risk committees: CRO Identification, measurement and Risk Governance Enterprise Risk management of individual risks The Board is responsible for overseeing our risk management Management including assessment against risk Framework & and internal control systems, which management is appetites Risk Modelling responsible for implementing.
Audit Committee Assurance STRATEGIC REPORT Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 61 The risk management function, as a second line of defence, Principal risks and uncertainties provides oversight over business processes and sets out The Board monitors the key risks that the company is policies and procedures.
The Audit Committee, as a third line exposed to against its tolerance level through the quarterly of defence, provides independent assurance and monitors ORSA.
This includes both the qualitative assessment of the the effectiveness of the risk management processes.
risk control environment and capital assessment using a stochastic model.
Enterprise risk management framework At Brit we deliver shareholder value by actively seeking and The key categories of risk include: accepting risk within agreed limits.
Our risk management policy highlights the importance of managing the impact of Overarching risk: earnings, solvency and liquidity: and risk on the economic value of our Group.
This is achieved by Individual risk categories: insurance, market, credit and appropriately managing and controlling all risk exposures operational, and group.
through the enterprise risk management framework ERMF.
This framework sets out a transparent process to identify, Insurance risk is the key driver of our Group capital assess and manage risk and deploy risk appetite utilising requirements.
This process enables us to protect policyholders and maximise shareholder value by ensuring the risk and capital implications of business strategy are well understood.
Under this framework the risk management team with the guidance of the Chief Risk Officer CRO ensures that our Group operates within the risk tolerance level approved by the Board.
This includes the assessment of the new strategic RISK APPETITE initiatives and principal risks and uncertainties faced by the business as detailed below.
Maximise RoNTA subject to appetite Our ERMF was designed to enable the Boards to set an appropriate risk strategy for the business and ensure that risk is managed throughout the organisation.
The development Earnings Solvency Liquidity of our ERMF ensures a strong culture of risk control and risk management continues to be embedded across our Group.
Risk appetite is set by the Board and cascaded throughout Overarching risks the organisation.
We monitor the aggregation of risk across the business and have overarching limits in place to manage this.
In addition to the overarching limits, the ERMF clearly Operational Credit identifies the key risk categories and risk tolerances set for Insurance Investment and Group each risk category.
Individual risk categories 62 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 RISK MANAGEMENT The key risks and uncertainties are set out in the following table and the principal risks in the current environment are further described below: Risk category Risk Description Overarching Earnings Unexpected earnings volatility leads to unexpected losses.
Solvency Capital ratio falls below the level targeted by management.
Liquidity Insufficient financial resources available to meet liabilities as they fall due.
Principal risk Insurance Underwriting Emerging experience is inconsistent with the assumptions pricing and pricing models used.
Principal risk Underwriting Premiums are insufficient to meet the long-term profitability catastrophe as expected.
Underwriting Failure to obtain reinsurance on attractive terms, or failure to reinsurance recover under reinsurance arrangements.
Reserving Prior year reserves are insufficient to cover claims net of Principal risk reinsurance.
Investment Investment market risk Invested assets adversely affected by changes in economic Principal risk variables, such as interest rates, bond yields, equity returns, credit spreads, credit ratings.
Currency Exchange rate fluctuations materially impact our financial performance.
Credit Counterparty risk Deterioration in the creditworthiness of, defaults by, or reputational issues related to, reinsurers or other third parties with whom we transact business.
Principal risk Operational People Failure to attract, motivate and retain key Directors, senior and Group underwriters, senior management and other key personnel, on whom our future success is substantially dependent.
Outsourcing Failure on the part of any third party to perform agreed arrangements outsourced services, on which we are heavily reliant.
STRATEGIC REPORT Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 63 Principal risks The table below provides additional information on the principal risks in the current environment: Principal risk Mitigation tools Metrics Status Underwriting pricing Inadequate pricing Strategic focus on Risk adjusted rate change This risk is particularly relevant could have a underwriting performance 2014: decrease of 2.9%: in the current softening rating material adverse rather than on top line 2013: increase of 0.3%.
effect on our results growth.
Active rebalancing of the for underwriting Strong governance processes portfolio is a key focus for operations and around strategy and management.
Pricing discipline is maintained through strict underwriting guidelines, monitoring of the delegated authorities and enforcement of the technical pricing framework.
Efficient use of the outwards reinsurance programme to reduce impact on net underwriting result.
64 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 RISK MANAGEMENT Principal risk Mitigation tools Metrics Status Underwriting catastrophe A catastrophic event Diverse portfolio of risks Largest realistic disaster Our outwards reinsurance or catastrophic events written between lines of scenarios 1 October 2014 programme was revised in 2014 could result in large business and geographic estimated loss in m : to enhance protection using insured losses that location.
aggregate worldwide cover for Event Gross Net adversely impact our property.
Regular monitoring against Gulf of Mexico windstorm 449 110 financial results and the Board catastrophe risk Florida Miami windstorm 346 82 potentially our capital appetite by our exposure US North East windstorm 388 83 position.
San Francisco earthquake 382 113 Japan earthquake 117 86 Effective outwards Japan windstorm 55 46 reinsurance programme European windstorm 140 80 in place, with particular emphasis on managing accumulation of risks.
Clear limits are set for key accumulations and conservative use of line size by our underwriters.
Reserving Estimating insurance Conservative best estimate Reserve release ratio Reserves are held at a reserves is inherently reserving philosophy with 2014: 3.3%: 2013: 6.0%.
conservative best estimate uncertain and, if track record of releases.
and we also carry an explicit insufficient, may risk margin.
Actuarial team recommend have a material reserves independently No change in approach from adverse effect on our from underwriting division prior years.
results and financial using established actuarial condition.
reinsurance contract, relating to Independent external review the restructuring of the Group of reserving is performed in 2012. annually.
STRATEGIC REPORT Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 65 Principal risk Mitigation tools Metrics Status Investment risk Investments are Well diversified investment Investment return net of fees We have realigned our susceptible to portfolio.
investment strategy and have changes in economic transitioned to a broader mix Strong governance processes Running yield 2014: 2.2%: conditions.
The core focus around investment strategy.
decrease in the value of our investment portfolio is of our invested assets Regular monitoring against income-generating investments, may have a material the Board investment risk balanced with growth assets adverse effect on appetite which includes across a wide range of sectors.
our results, financial defined limits for solvency, This has produced a strong condition and earnings risk and liquidity risk.
investment return in recent liquidity.
place for individual asset classes and monitored regularly.
People We could be Our remuneration strategy Staff turnover 2014: 6.8%: The current environment is adversely affected is designed to reward talent 2013: 10.9%.
competitive with a number by the loss of one or and success.
We have of our peers actively seeking more key employees a proven track record in talented staff.
We actively or by an inability to being able to retain highmanage our remuneration attract and retain performing staff.
and HR policies to ensure we qualified personnel.
continue to retain and attract Succession and contingency This could negatively the best staff.
plans are in place in the affect our financial event of the loss of a key condition, results, employee.
or our ability to deliver our strategic Share-based remuneration priorities.
has been introduced since the listing of Brit PLC to align remuneration and the achievement of our longterm business goals.
Regular monitoring of employee turnover and morale through externally administered engagement survey.
