Strategic report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014 25 Corporate governance Risk management Board of directors Primary responsibility Audit committee Reviews and approves the risk management process Finance Director reports risk and Caledonia risk governance and structure Effective risk management is a key operates controls Risk management and its governance is the responsibility of assurance program component of the companys business the board, with the executive given the task of ensuring an effective and transparent process to ensure risks are identified, model and assists in ensuring that the Investment executives documented, assessed and, where appropriate, mitigated.
risk management part different parts of the group operate The board sets the risk appetite within the business model and of investing process this is communicated through the executive to all those with within strategic risk parameters.
Risks emanate from all parts of the Investee managements business and are considered by all executives as part of their The board has overall responsibility risk identiication and work, from origination of investments to ongoing monitoring mitigation responsibility for setting and monitoring the and portfolio management.
Business engagement The Audit Committee assesses and approves the risk management processes and structure and specifically reviews the controls assurance programme.
This programme identifies key mitigating controls, tests their operation and reports on compliance and effective operation.
This, together with reports arising from the external audit, provides input to the board as a whole on the status of the risk management process.
Board of directors Primary responsibility Audit committee Reviews and approves the risk management Corporate process governance Finance Director Reports risk and operates controls assurance program Investment Business executives engagement Risk management part of investing process Investee managements Risk identiication and mitigation responsibility Risk management reporting Caledonia manages and reports risk through two primary areas of focus: an overall business risk report and a portfolio investment risk report.
The business risk report considers the wider business environment of the group, including business continuity planning, IT and cyber security risks, regulatory risks and financial control risks.
Caledonia manages business risk through a number of integrated processes and procedures operating throughout the year to provide risk visibility to both the executive team and the wider board.
t n M e o m n i u t c o o r d a n d d n a i m y f p i t r n o e v d e I t n y e S g e t s e t i t s t a n a r r o t g c s e e d t t e i a t Set risk appetite consistent with approved strategy Report and Identify feedback and document Monitor Score impact and improve and likelihood 26 Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc Set target and mitigate Risk management continued Caledonia risk management process Principal risks Mitigation Key developments Strategic Risks in relation to the appropriateness of the business model The companys business model and strategy are reviewed Caledonia has established and communicated a clear to deliver long term growth in capital and income and the periodically, against market conditions and target returns.
investment strategy, focusing on longer term value effective communication and delivery of the business model.
A clear strategic capital allocation to a range The performance of the company and its key risks are of investment types, risk profiles and returns has been Strategic risks include the appropriate allocation of capital monitored regularly by management and the board.
established and communicated, enabling the board in relation to geographic, sector and currency exposures.
and shareholders to evaluate targeted performance.
Remuneration and rewards are aligned to strategic targeted performance.
Investment Risks in respect of specific investment and realisation decisions.
Pool managers have well-developed networks through An increased breadth of investment management skills which they attract proprietary deal flow.
and expertise over the last two years has facilitated Investment risks include the appropriate research and due increased deal flow and quality of research across diligence of new investments and the timely execution of both Investment opportunities are subject to rigorous and the portfolio.
new investments and realisations for optimal shareholder value.
disciplined investment appraisals and multi-stage approval processes.
Target entry and exit events and prices are monitored and updated regularly, in relation to market conditions and strategic aims.
Market Risk of losses in value of investments arising from movements Market risks and sensitivities are reviewed on a weekly Risk weighted performance reporting and portfolio risk in market prices, particularly in highly volatile markets.
basis and actions taken to balance appropriately risk analysis has been developed for management and the and return.
board, giving a regular insight into the characteristics Caledonia invests primarily in listed equities, private companies and performance of Caledonias portfolio.
Its principal market risks are therefore equity A regular review of market and investment volatility and price volatility, foreign exchange rate movements and interest value at risk is conducted by the board and the portfolio is rate volatility.
An explanation of these risks, along with realigned with strategic aims where appropriate.
Reviews Risks are identified and assessed through a risk dashboard, sensitivities, is included in note 23 to these accounts.
also consider investment concentration, currency and capturing the most significant business risks facing Caledonia liquidity exposures.
and documenting the actions required to achieve an acceptable level of risk.
Liquidity Risk that liabilities cannot be met or new investments made due Detailed cash forecasting for six months ahead is updated Average liquidity levels of our quoted portfolio have The business risk dashboard is reported to the board half yearly.
Such risk can arise from not being able to and reviewed weekly, including the expected drawdown of increased over the last year.
The portfolio investment risk report specifically focuses on sell an investment due to lack of a market or from not holding capital commitments.
The successful exit of two recent significant unquoted the more technical areas of investment portfolio risk in relation cash or being able to raise debt.
Listed portfolio liquidity is reviewed regularly.
This includes such areas Loan facilities are maintained to provide appropriate as investment volatility, value at risk, diversification, liquidity Revolving borrowing facilities were renegotiated for a liquidity headroom.
further five years, and committed facilities increased to 175m from the previous level of 125m.
Operational Risks arising from inadequate or failed processes, people and Systems and control procedures are developed and An IT risk dashboard has been developed to document systems or from external factors.
They are tested, as part of the significant IT risks facing Caledonia.
annual programme of controls assurance, to ensure Operational risks include recruiting, developing and retaining A cyber security review was completed during the year effective operation.
staff, appropriate systems and procedures, business disruption looking at how equipment, information and services are and an IT framework that provides flexible and resilient support.
Appropriate remuneration and other policies are in place protected from unintended or unauthorised access, change to encourage the retention of key staff.
plans are maintained, using an offsite facility.
Regulatory and legal Risk arising from exposure to litigation or fraud and adherence Caledonia has internal resource which considers all Caledonia is satisfied that it is not an Alternative to the tax and regulatory environment, as Caledonia operates regulatory and tax matters as they arise.
Use is made of Investment Fund AIF, as defined in the EUs Alternative across a number of jurisdictions and in an industry that has advisers and the Association of Investment Companies, of Investment Fund Managers Directive, and therefore been subject to increasing regulatory oversight.
which Caledonia is a member and on whose self-managed is not required to be authorised by the Financial Conduct investment company committee it is represented.
Regular Authority to perform the regulated activity of managing training is undertaken.
an AIF under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, as amended.
v n e o p d r p p m a p i k t a i s g i h r a t t t i e e w S k c a S a b c n d o d e r l e i e f k i d e m l n i h p a o a t o c r t d o p e R Strategic report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014 27 Principal risks Mitigation Key developments Strategic Risks in relation to the appropriateness of the business model The companys business model and strategy are reviewed Caledonia has established and communicated a clear to deliver long term growth in capital and income and the periodically, against market conditions and target returns.
Reviews sensitivities, is included in note 23 to these accounts.
also consider investment concentration, currency and liquidity exposures.
Liquidity Risk that liabilities cannot be met or new investments made due Detailed cash forecasting for six months ahead is updated Average liquidity levels of our quoted portfolio have to a lack of liquidity.
sell an investment due to lack of a market or from not holding capital commitments.
The successful exit of two recent significant unquoted cash or being able to raise debt.
Loan facilities are maintained to provide appropriate Revolving borrowing facilities were renegotiated for a liquidity headroom.
