Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 30 Principal Risks and Uncertainties In delivering the groups strategy the group faces a number This summary should not be regarded as a complete of risks.
These risks are managed by: and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and Adhering to our prudent and established business uncertainties faced by the group but rather those risks which model: the group currently believes may have a significant impact on Following an integrated risk management approach: and the groups performance and future prospects.
Setting clearly defined risk appetites and monitoring these with specific metrics and within set limits.
In preparing disclosures for the Annual Report related to these risks and our approach to risk management, as set out A summary of the principal risks and uncertainties which on pages 51 to 54 of the Corporate Governance report, the may impact the groups ability to deliver its strategy, how group has considered the recommendations of the Enhanced we seek to mitigate these risks and the change in the Disclosure Task Force issued in October 2012. perceived level of risk over the year is set out below.
The risks identified remain broadly unchanged from the prior year.
No change Risk decreased Risk increased Key: Risk Mitigation Change Credit losses The Banking divisions loan book is The group is exposed to credit and predominately secured with The Banking divisions loan book counterparty risk particularly in the conservative loan-to-values.
Average impairment rate is at a 10 year low Banking division.
loan size remains small with short reflecting our strong lending discipline, average tenor.
The portfolio is favourable market conditions and the The Banking division has a loan book diversified with a limited number of improved credit quality of our of 5.3 billion to a range of small individual deals which could materially borrowers.
However, against a businesses and individuals and impact the groups earnings.
backdrop of a recovering economy and remains exposed to credit losses if the potential for rising interest rates the these customers are unable to repay Control and governance is exercised outlook for our customers remains loans and any outstanding interest and both within the business and through challenging.
Strict lending criteria are applied when At 31 July 2014 the Banking divisions The group is also exposed to testing the credit quality and covenant liquidity requirements and surplus counterparties with which it places of the underlying borrower and funding was placed with the Bank of deposits or trades and has limited significant emphasis is placed on the England or held in UK gilts.
derivative contracts to hedge interest quality of the underlying security.
rate, foreign exchange and equity Rigorous and timely collections and exposures.
arrears management processes are Further commentary on the credit also in place.
quality of our loan book is outlined on page 24.
Further details on loans The Banking division currently places and advances to customers and the majority of its liquidity requirements debt securities held are in notes 11 and surplus funding with the Bank of and 12 on pages 104 and 105 of England.
The credit quality of the the Financial Statements.
counterparties with whom it places deposits or trades is continuously monitored and all trading is performed within approved limits.
Interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives are held for hedging purposes only and material exposures are cash collateralised.
Our Securities businesses predominately trade in exchange traded instruments with regulated counterparties on a delivery against payment basis.
Counterparty exposure and settlement failure monitoring controls are also in place.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 31 Risk Mitigation Change Economic environment The group operates in specialist areas Despite the improved outlook, any where staff have significant expertise of Whilst the UK outlook has improved, downturn in economic conditions the market and our products along we are yet to see a sustained global could impact the groups performance with an in depth understanding of our recovery particularly in the Eurozone.
Across our Lower demand for the groups businesses we aim to build long-term product and services: relationships with clients improving our Further commentary on the Lower investor risk appetite as a resilience in difficult economic attributes and resilience of the groups business model is shown result of financial markets instability: conditions.
on pages 8 to 11. and Higher bad debts as a result of Regular stress testing on our customers inability to service debt performance and financial position is and lower asset values on which performed to test our resilience in loans are secured.
Legal and regulatory We continue to invest significantly in The evolving legal and regulatory both staff and operating systems to Following changes to the UK regulatory environment has the ability to impact ensure the group remains well placed regime in April 2013 and recent well materially the groups performance, to respond to changes in regulation.
publicised focus on the financial capital and liquidity, the markets in services industry, the risk of legal or which we operate, the behaviour and Our staff review key legal and regulatory action resulting in fines, expectations of our clients and the way regulatory developments in order to penalties, censure or other sanction we conduct our business.
anticipate their potential impact on our from failure to identify or meet performance and our business model.
regulatory and legislative requirements Not treating customers fairly, failing to This is supported by a constructive has increased.
adequately safeguard client assets or dialogue with regulatory bodies and providing advice and products which strong compliance procedures across are not in our customers best interest the group to ensure we remain well The groups approach to regulatory or fit for purpose, whether in the future placed to meet current regulatory and reform during the year is discussed or in respect of past business, has the legislative requirements.
in the Chairman and Chief potential to damage the groups Executives Statement on page 6 reputation, impact performance and Across the group we are committed and the Risk Committee report on may lead to legal or regulatory to providing straightforward and pages 53 and 54 of the Corporate sanctions including litigation and transparent products and services to Governance report.
New products and services on the groups capital, funding and liquidity position is outlined on are subject to our business initiatives pages 18 to 21.
Further information Failure to identify, interpret and comply policy and both new and existing on our approach to conduct risk with relevant legal requirements, or products and services are regularly can be found in the Sustainability obligations has the potential to impact reviewed by risk and compliance Report on pages 34 to 39. significantly on the groups committees to ensure they remain fit performance.
The conduct of our employees is a priority and the group has developed a robust framework to control, monitor and report conduct risk.
During the year we have looked to embed fully the organisations culture and traditional values of service and integrity through initiatives such as the Vision and Values programme and the Banking Customer Service Programme.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 32 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation Change Competition The group has a strong track record of The group operates in highly operating in specialist areas where we We continue to see increased competitive markets and as the UK aim to be market leaders.
Across the competition in parts of our Banking economy improves we expect to see group we value our clients and build division.
Competition in Securities and increased competition particularly in strong long-term relationships which Asset Management has remained high.
the Banking division which may impact result in high levels of repeat business.
Our differentiated proposition, strong Further commentary on the market financial position and prudent financial environment for the Banking management allows us to support our division is outlined on page 23.
Our clients and trade profitably through the business model is set out on pages economic cycle and is based on the 8 to 11. following key principles: Speed and flexibility of service: Local presence with experienced and knowledgeable staff: and Tailored product offerings.
Technology We continued to invest in IT Maintaining robust and secure IT infrastructure, information security and The group maintains a robust IT infrastructure, systems and software is software during the year which has infrastructure and remains well placed fundamental to allow the group to included the replacement of legacy to respond to new technology.
operate effectively, respond to new systems and the enhancement of front However, the risk of new technology technology, protect client and company end technology.
The progress of major impacting our business model or a data and counter the evolving cyber IT projects is regularly reviewed and all cyber threat to data or our services is threat.
systems are subjected to rigorous increasing.
Failure to keep up with technological innovation and changing customer The UK Government and Bank of Further detail on the technology expectations has the potential to England has highlighted cyber threat as related investment is outlined on impact group performance.
an issue across the financial sector.
The groups audit and risk functions have carried out cyber threat reviews For further information on our which included testing our internal response to cyber risk and the controls framework and reviewing independent review on our business planned investment on cyber risk to continuity plans see page 54 of the ensure we remain well placed to detect Corporate Governance report.
We have well established and regularly tested business continuity and disaster recovery plans.
These plans are subject to periodic external review to ensure they remain robust.
Employees The group operates in specialist areas The calibre, quality and expertise of and across our businesses we are As competition increases we expect employees is critical to the success of committed to developing staff.
Key our highly skilled employees to be the group.
The loss of key individuals or roles have succession planning in targeted.
However, we remain teams may have an adverse impact on place and through the Emerging confident in our ability to retain key the groups operations and ability to Leaders Programme we aim to develop employees, a view supported by the deliver its strategy.
a strong pipeline of future leaders bi-annual employee survey carried out throughout the group.
During the year last year which identified 90% of we also launched a graduate scheme employees surveyed were either which follows the Aspire programme satisfied or very satisfied working at for school leavers created last year.
The groups performance management framework ensures remuneration Further detail on the employee structures are competitive and survey and our investment in recognise and reward performance.
our people is outlined in the Sustainability Report on pages 34 to 39.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 33 Risk Mitigation Change Funding At 31 July 2014 the groups funding The Banking divisions access to position was strong with total funding The group remains well funded, retains funding remains key to support its 135% of the loan book.
This surplus sufficient liquidity and is well placed to lending activities and the liquidity provides a significant liquidity risk access further funding if required.
Our funding sources remain diversified Further commentary on funding and during the year we accessed the and liquidity is provided on pages following markets: 19 and 20.
Further financial analysis Retail funding: of our funding at 31 July 2014 is Corporate deposits: shown in note 20 on page 113 of the Interbank facilities: Financial Statements.
Securitised funding: and Debt capital markets.
The Banking division assesses liquidity on a daily basis and weekly tests are performed to ensure adequate liquidity is held for stressed situations.
At 31 July 2014 high quality liquid assets accounted for all of the groups treasury assets.
Exposure to markets Our Securities division primarily act as Volatility or a sudden dislocation in market-makers in exchange traded The groups approach to managing financial markets may impact the cash securities.
Trading positions are exposure to markets is consistent with groups profitability particularly in the monitored on a real time basis and prior year and the associated risks Securities division.
both individual and book limits are set remain unchanged.
Changes in interest rates have the potential to impact the groups earnings The groups policy is to match fixed Further detail on the groups particularly interest income.
and variable interest rate assets and exposure to market risk is outlined liabilities using swaps where in note 31 on pages 132 and 133 of While the majority of the groups appropriate.
The groups capital and the Financial Statements.
activities are located in the UK and are reserves are not hedged as a matter of transacted in sterling there is limited policy.
A sensitivity analysis on interest foreign exchange exposure principally rate exposures is shown in note 31 on arising on deposits, lending and page 132 of the Financial Statements.
funding balances in the Banking division.
Foreign exchange exposures in the Banking division are hedged using currency swaps with exposures monitored daily against approved limits.
The group does not speculate on foreign currency movements.
Stress tests are regularly performed on market risks to ensure we maintain adequate liquidity and capital even under extreme downside scenarios.
