Principal risks and uncertainties Effective management of risks is essential to the delivery of the Groups objective of creating superior shareholder returns.
The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and the review of financial risk has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
Under the leadership of the Group Head of Risk, Bodycote has developed the risk management framework to identify, report and manage its business critical risks.
The Risk Committee, established in 2012, continued to meet during the year, attended by senior managers from each of the operating divisions.
The role of the Risk Committee is to embed risk management and facilitate the implementation of risk management measures throughout the Group.
A variety of approaches are used to identify and report risks, which are aggregated first at a sub-divisional level and then at Group level.
For each business critical risk, assurance activities have been documented in risk assurance maps and these are used to direct assurance activity.
The Group Head of Risk provides an update to the Audit Committee on the Groups risk activities at every meeting and a comprehensive review of the Groups business critical risks is presented in December.
In addition, the Board examines a specific risk topic at each Board meeting.
The table below highlights the major risks that may affect Bodycotes ability to deliver the strategy, as laid out on page 7.
Details of the Groups financial risks funding, foreign exchange, interest rate and counterparty risks, which are managed by the Groups treasury function are provided in note 18 to the financial statements.
The mitigating activities described below will help to reduce the impact or likelihood of the major risk occurring, although the Board recognises that it will not be possible to eliminate these risks entirely.
Furthermore, there could be risks that may be unknown or that may be judged to be insignificant at present, but may later prove to be significant.
For this reason business continuity plans have been prepared for all plants to provide for situations where specific risks have the potential to severely impact the business.
Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Market and customer risks Markets Bodycote operates in 26 countries The high proportion of fixed costs in Bodycotes presence in 26 and a substantial amount of sales the business means that a drop in countries in a wide variety of endare closely linked to the economic sales will have a significant impact markets acts as a natural hedge cycle and the general macroon profitability.
Sales in the markets to neutralise localised economic economic environment.
served by the AGI businesses 64% volatility.
of the total Group tend to develop in There is some flexibility in the line with or ahead of the economic cost base e. g. by ensuring that cycle, whereas aerospace and a proportion of the workforce is defence sales 22% tend to track employed on temporary contracts.
Sales to Changes in customer demand on the energy sectors 14% are closely a local or a group-wide level are linked to energy prices, which in turn responded to quickly.
can be affected by general economic activity.
Loss of key customers Bodycote benefits from many The loss of a key customer could There is no significant customer long-term relationships with key adversely affect the Groups financial dependency, with the Groups top customers and the damage to, or results and the viability of one or ten customers accounting for less loss of, any of these relationships more of Bodycotes facilities.
than 14% of sales and the balance would be detrimental to the Group.
made up by many thousands of customers.
There is a continued focus on customer service and quality processes to maintain excellent relationships with major customers.
Key account management is in place and customer satisfaction is monitored.
24 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2014 23846.02 9 March 2015 12:35 PM Proof 2 Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Market and customer risks continued Competitor action The entry of competitors into one The erosion of market share The close control of proprietary or more of the Groups Specialist resulting in loss of revenue and knowledge.
Rapid increase in the scale of the Groups offerings to maintain the position as supplier of choice.
Corporate and community risks Safety and health The nature of Bodycotes activities Bodycote is committed to providing Group-wide health and safety presents safety and health risks.
a safe work environment for policies set by the Group Chief its employees but Bodycotes Executive.
operations, if not properly managed, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 could have a significant impact on compliant SHE management individual employees.
Furthermore, systems being used by Group poor safety and health practices Head of Safety, Health and could lead to disruption of business, Environment with support of financial penalties and loss of divisional safety and health teams.
Programme in place to focus on reduction of incidents which could have a high impact.
Safety compliance audits at all plants at least every two years.
Oversight of safety and health framework provided by the Group SHE Committee.
Environment Bodycotes operations could lead to Operations, if not properly managed, Remediation of contaminated damage to the environment.
could result in environmental sites as required by local contamination with disruption of legislation.
business, financial costs and loss of Reduction in the use of hazardous reputation.
substances, such as chlorinated solvents.
Environmental procedures and Bodycote incurs costs annually Historical use of solvents and other measures in place conforming to 2014: 1.5m in meeting its hazardous chemicals by plants ISO 14001 2014: 87% of plants.
obligations and maintains a provision operated by Bodycote or by plants of 14.0m.
If the provision is acquired by Bodycote could have Environmental due diligence of insufficient to meet the cost of led to ground contamination.
remediation, then this could have environmental regulations in many an impact on the Groups results.
of the jurisdictions that Bodycote Some of the Groups heat treatment operates in impose actual or plants continue to use solvents potential obligations on Bodycote to and hazardous chemicals in small remediate contaminated sites.
com 23846.02 9 March 2015 12:35 PM Proof 2 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Operational risks Service quality The Bodycote brand is reliant on Deterioration in quality or service Bodycote has stringent quality the repeatable delivery of parts to levels can cause serious long-term systems in place managed by agreed specification to an agreed damage to Bodycotes reputation qualified staff.
with financial consequences such as Quality systems and processes the loss of a customer and the cost operated at plant level with of damages or litigation.
Work that oversight by divisional quality is released into use which is not in teams.
compliance with specification could Where necessary plants maintain arise as a result of system or human industry relevant accreditations, failure.
All plants subjected to internal and external quality audits and inspections at least once a year.
Major disruption at a facility Bodycotes business processes Any significant incident at a site Bodycote has a global network are inherently risky and there could result in the service to of 188 facilities that creates a is a possibility that a major fire Bodycotes customers from the framework to provide back-up or utility outage could lead to affected site being disrupted.
capability for any affected facility.
Business continuity plans In addition a number of sites are developed for all plants.
exposed to natural hazards, such as Independent insurer inspections earthquakes, flooding and storms.
to assess hazard and business interruption risks.
Scheduled equipment maintenance and inspections.
Information technology projects The efficient operation of the Failure to manage the Project approval and progress Group will rely increasingly on the implementation of the ERP subject to regular Board review.
proper development and operation programme successfully could result Project teams made up of of its IT systems.
Bodycote is in cost overruns and, potentially, skilled subject matter experts currently undergoing a group-wide disruption to the business.
supplemented with third party implementation of a new ERP advisers.
Best practice project management processes in place with assurance provided by third parties.
Defined disaster recovery planning and data backup procedures.
26 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2014 23846.02 9 March 2015 12:35 PM Proof 2 Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Regulatory risks Regulatory and legislative compliance The global nature of Bodycotes Failure to comply with legislation Business processes are operations means that the Group could lead to substantial financial supported by HR policies and has to comply with a wide range penalties, disruption to business, the Group Code of Conduct of local and international legislative diversion of management time, alongside training and awareness requirements, including anti-bribery personal and corporate liability and programmes.
and anti-competition legislation, loss of reputation.
The Open Door Line taxation legislation, employment law whistleblower facility which is and import and export controls.
Engagement of local specialists to support Bodycote at local, divisional and Group level.
Regular audit of the effectiveness of implemented procedures.
com 23846.02 9 March 2015 12:35 PM Proof 2 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
