Risk management Managing risk We have a robust and integrated risk management framework.
This framework sets out and enables the monitoring of responsibilities and accountabilities for risk management and internal control for the whole business.
Our risk governance structure Our risk and compliance strategy is integral The Board sets and monitors adherence to the risk strategy, to everything we do within our business.
risk appetite and risk framework.
The Board has established a risk management model that separates the businesss risk Jos Vazquez, Chief Risk Officer management responsibilities into three lines of defence as shown in the diagram below.
The Chief Risk Officer is a member of the Executive Committee and reports to the Chief Executive Officer.
He also has access to The 1st Line of Defence is responsible for ownership and the Chair of the Board Risk Committee and the Chairman of the management of the risks to the achievement of business Board and he also has a right of access to the Audit Committee, objectives on a day-to-day basis.
assuring the Risk functions independence.
The Chief Risk Officer The 2nd Line of Defence is responsible for the provision of chairs the Risk Management Committee, which oversees the proportionate oversight of risks, issues, events and incidents.
effective management of risk across the Group.
Group Audit delivers the 3rd Line of Defence through the provision to the Board of an independent view of the effectiveness of risk management and controls.
Board Investment Board Risk Audit Nomination Remuneration CSR Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Risk Management Disclosure Chief Executive Committee Committee officer 2nd Line of Defence 1st Line of Defence 3rd Line of Defence Risk ownership Oversight, challenge and support of 1st Line Independent assurance Risk and Compliance Tools: Personal Lines Group Audit High level controls and Commercial systems of governance Claims Specialist control functions Enterprise Risk Management Finance with 1st and 2nd strategy and framework Chief Information Ofce Line responsibilities: Delegated authorities Human Resources Finance Policies Chief Information Ofce Minimum standards Claims Business Services Risk appetite Human Resources Advice and guidance Legal and Company Assurance and monitoring Secretariat Oversight and governance Own Risk and Solvency Assessment 28 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report The diagram below outlines the Groups risk objectives and risk Managing risk in line with Group strategy appetite statements.
Management, and ultimately the Board, are responsible for developing our Group strategy.
Our strategic planning process Our ERM framework aims to ensure we have developed clear objectives and targets ERM is the process of organising and controlling the activities of and identified the actions needed to deliver them.
These must the whole Group so as to ensure we remain within risk appetite.
be consistent with our overall objective of a 15% RoTE and To enable ERM, we have developed a framework comprising a delivered in line with our risk appetite.
For more information number of components which are fundamental to good risk on our strategy, see page 16. management.
These are shown in the diagram overleaf.
Delivering a strategic plan will, by its very nature, result in A central component of the ERM framework is our policy taking risks.
Identification of these risks is a key aspect of the framework, which includes policies and minimum standards.
strategic planning process, placing importance on the link These inform the business how it needs to conduct its activities between strategy and its impact on capital.
We place to remain within risk appetite.
Enterprise-wide Risk Management ERM at the very heart of our approach.
We also employ a number of risk tools to manage and monitor our risks.
We test and report on the output of these tools both Risk strategy and appetite internally and externally.
Direct Line Groups risk appetite statements articulate the level We have an annual review programme to ensure our ERM and of risk the Group is prepared to accept to achieve its business policies remain fit for purpose.
To monitor whether the Group remains within our risk appetite, the statements are aligned to key business metrics and used to drive risk-aware decision-making by key business stakeholders.
These metrics form key risk indicators KRIs, which are both qualitative and quantitative, and forward and backward looking.
We review our risk appetite statements and KRIs annually, using outputs from the Internal Economic Capital Model and taking our business plan into account.
For information on our allocation of capital by risk type, see page 48.
Our strategy Risk objective Risk appetite statement The Group recognises that its long term sustainability is dependent on having sufficient Overarching risk objective economic capital to meet our liabilities as they fall due, thus protecting our reputation and the integrity of our relationship with our policyholders and other stakeholders.
As part of this, our appetite is for general insurance risk, focusing on personal lines retail and SME insurance in the United Kingdom.
We have appetite for non-insurance risks, as appropriate, to enable and assist us to undertake our primary activity of insurance.
We seek to maintain sufficient economic capital consistent with our strategic aim of achieving Maintain capital adequacy a standalone credit rating in the A range.
We also seek to hold capital resources in the range of 125%-150% of risk based capital.
We aim to meet both planned and unexpected cash outflow requirements, including those Stable and efficient access to funding requirements that arise following a 1 in 200-year insurance, market or credit risk event.
and liquidity Maintain stakeholder confidence We have no appetite for material risks resulting in reputational damage, regulatory or legal censure, fines or prosecutions and other types of non-budgeted operational risk losses associated with the Groups conduct and activities.
The Group will maintain a robust and proportionate internal control environment.
com 29 Risk management continued Our risk culture Our ERM strategy and framework sets out the mechanisms Culture to manage risk aligned to our Group strategy.
The Board approves our Group strategy, risk appetite and policy Group strategy framework.
The Board Risk Committee approves our ERM strategy and framework.
Risk culture involves applying the ERM strategy and ERM strategy frameworks principles, processes and tools in our day-to-day behaviour.
A good risk culture is one where risk management Risk appetite is a significant part of the way we work.
Our risk culture focuses on the key areas of strategy, Policy framework employees, promoting good governance, communication, systems and reporting.
Key elements of the risk management framework Our culture and ERM strategy and framework are mutually supportive.
We believe that the promotion of a good risk Risk assesment Issues Control environment culture across the Group and by all of our employees helps 1 including MRA management certication embed risk management within our business.
Solvency II Reporting and management information Solvency II is the European insurance industrys new framework for the capital adequacy regime.
It establishes a revised set of Capital model European Union-wide capital requirements and risk management standards, which aim to better protect policyholders.
Solvency II is scheduled for implementation on 1 January 2016.
The Group Risk training and communication continues to make progress to ensure we meet all requirements in line with developing best practice.
We are embedding the Groups ERM framework in respect of During 2014, we enhanced our emerging risks processes.
Solvency II, including the use of forward looking risk assessment Supported by stress and scenario testing, the processes based on the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA aim to: principles.
The Group continues to use and enhance its Internal Achieve early recognition of risks Economic Capital Model, which is used to support our business and strategic decisions from a risk-based capital perspective.
Reduce the uncertainty and volatility of business results Take a proactive approach to managing emerging risks Emerging risks Identify, manage and monitor a broader range of risks The Groups definition of emerging risk is consistent with the Mitigate the potential impact on our profit and loss account Solvency II definition in that it focuses on newly developing and balance sheet.
or changing risks that are difficult to quantify but may have a major or material impact on the business.
The Group On 1 April 2014, the FCA took over the regulation of has further defined emerging risks as fulfilling some of the Consumer Credit from the Office of Fair Trading.
Firms within following criteria: the Group currently have interim permission for consumer credit activities and will be applying for full permissions during 2015.
They are risks which are external to the Group They are new or changing risks They are subject to a high degree of uncertainty Main emerging risks: There is scope for mitigation either now or in the future Big data, including cybercrime, data regulation We record emerging risks within an Emerging Risk Register and information security which aligns to the risk taxonomy underpinning the Material Climate change Risk Register.
These emerging risks link into the ORSA reporting cycle.
They are also part of the risk-reporting framework to the New car technology, for example, driverless cars Executive Risk Management Committee and the Board Risk Major new market entrants Committee for review, challenge and approval, and feed New insurance distribution models into the Boards strategic planning process.
Changing approach to conduct regulation Change in UK legislative environment Pandemics Note: 1.
Material Risk Assessment 30 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Risks are always present in our business.
It is important to ensure that we identify, measure, monitor and report these risks throughout the business on an ongoing basis.
We also monitor changes in these risks over time.
We believe these risks are broadly unchanged over the last year.
Principal risks Owner Management and mitigation examples Insurance risk: Underwriting Managing Directors We have set underwriting guidelines for all business transacted and pricing of Personal Lines We refine pricing through analysis of comprehensive data and Commercial We face the risk that future claims and We purchase Catastrophe and Motor excess of loss reinsurance, expenses are not as predicted.
This limiting our exposure to large losses includes catastrophe risks arising from We invest in enhanced external data to analyse and losses due to unpredictable natural mitigate exposures and man-made events.
Insurance risk: Reserving Chief Financial We estimate the technical reserves using a range of actuarial and Officer statistical techniques We face the risk that the run-off of We ensure that managements best estimate of reserves is not less reserves is not as predicted, driven by than the actuarial best estimate our large Motor portfolio and periodic payment orders PPOs because of Our reserves estimates are subject to third-party reviews their long-term nature.
Strategic risk Chief Executive We have agreed strategic targets which are monitored and managed Officer We run an annual strategy process which considers Group The risk of direct or indirect adverse performance, competitor positioning and strategic opportunities impact on the earnings, capital, or value of the business as a result of the We identify and manage emerging risks using an established strategies not being optimally chosen, governance process and forums implemented or adapted to changing conditions.
Operational risk Specific members We have strong operational processes and systems, including of the Executive fraudulent claims detection systems We face the risk of losses resulting from We maintain a robust internal control environment, see page 60 inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from We have developed a bespoke risk capture, management and external events.
reporting system Market risk Chief Financial We manage and control our investment portfolio through: Officer investment strategy and guidelines approved by the Board: and We are exposed to fluctuations in the value of, or the income from, diversity in the types of assets held our investment portfolio.
We use risk-reduction techniques such as hedging foreign currency See page 121. exposures with forwards, and hedging US Dollar interest rates with swaps Counterparty risk Chief Financial We set credit limits for each counterparty Officer We only purchase reinsurance from reinsurers with a minimum We partner with many suppliers, in Arating particular for reinsurance.
The failure of any of these partners could result in We actively monitor broker credit exposures a financial loss.
Regulatory risk Chief Risk Officer We have a constructive and open relationship with our regulators We use specific risk management tools and resources, such as our Risk arises from changes in law and upstream risk team, to help manage exposure to regulatory risk regulations including changes of interpretation not being identified, We exercise risk-based monitoring to ensure we use our resources interpreted or adopted correctly, to the greatest impact including Solvency II.
Conduct risk Chief Executive Our organisational culture prioritises a consistent approach to Officer customers.
Our customers interests are at the heart of how Failure to treat our customers we operate appropriately or failure by our We have developed a robust customer conduct risk management people to behave with integrity.
framework to minimise our exposure to conduct risk, see page 65 Brand and reputational risk Specific members We regularly review our brand and reputational risk through our of the Executive governance framework We depend on the strength of We undertake substantial marketing activities to protect and build our our brands and our reputation brands, and measure their effectiveness regularly with customers and distributors.
