Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The principal risks and corresponding mitigation set out below represent the principal uncertainties that the Board believes may impact the Groups ability to deliver effectively its strategy in the future.
The list does not include all risks that the Group faces and it does not list the risks in any order of priority.
Risk Impact Mitigating factors Increasing price A decline in selling prices could have We will continue to offer our customers even better choice, price competition in the an adverse impact on the Groups sales and service supported by the continued delivery of the Makro UK grocery and and operating profits.
synergy plans and our efficiency programmes.
discount sectors Failure to respond to This could have an adverse impact on The industry is extremely competitive with the market being served competition the Groups sales and operating profits.
by numerous competitors, ranging from national multiple retailers to regional independent wholesalers.
The Group competes by closely monitoring the activities of competitors and ensuring it continues to improve the choice, price and service to its customers.
Changes in regulation Changing legislation may impact our The Group operates in an environment governed by strict ability to market or sell certain products regulations to ensure the safety and protection of customers, or could cause the Group to incur shareholders, employees and other stakeholders and the operation additional costs or liabilities that could of an open and competitive market.
These regulations include food adversely affect its business.
hygiene, health and safety, data protection, the rules of the London Stock Exchange and competition law.
In all cases, the Board takes its responsibilities very seriously, and recognises that any breach of regulation could cause reputational and financial damage to the Group.
Product quality This could have an adverse The quality and safety of our products is of critical importance and safety impact on the Groups reputation, sales and any failure in this regard would affect the confidence of and operating profits.
We work with our suppliers to ensure the integrity of the products supplied.
Food hygiene practices are taken very seriously throughout the Group, and are monitored both through internal audit procedures and by external bodies such as environmental health departments.
We have well prepared procedures for crisis management in order to act quickly when required.
We are aware that if we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to deliver to our customers satisfaction the expected standards of quality and safety in our products their loyalty to us may be potentially impacted.
This in turn could adversely impact on our market share and our financial results.
14 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Risk Impact Mitigating factors Employee engagement The continued success of the Group The Groups employment policies, remuneration and benets and retention relies heavily on the investment in packages are designed to be competitive, as well as providing the training and development of our colleagues with fullling career opportunities.
continually engages with employees across the business to ensure that we keep strengthening our team at every level.
Supplier credit Availability of supplier credit is essential The Group Finance Director regularly meets key credit for the Groups financial performance.
insurers to ensure that they have an up to date view of If the providers of credit insurance the Groups financial position.
withdraw or materially reduce the levels of cover they provide, this might affect the Groups ability to obtain products from those suppliers.
Pension funding A worsening funding position may The Group seeks to agree appropriate investment policies with require the Group to invest additional the Trustee and closely monitors the funding position with the cash contributions or provide further Trustee.
Both the Company and the Trustee take advice from assurance to cover future liabilities.
Failure of the Groups The maintenance and development of The Group has appropriate controls in place to mitigate the risk information technology information technology systems may of systems failure, including systems back up procedures and systems result in system failures, including cyber disaster recovery plans, and also has appropriate virus protection security breaches which may adversely and network security controls.
impact the Groups ability to operate.
STRATEGIC REPORT APPROVAL The Strategic Report, outlined on pages 01 to 15, incorporates the Highlights, the Business Prole and Key Performance Indicators, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Group Finance Directors Report, the Corporate Social Responsibility Report and the Risks and Uncertainties sections.
By order of the Board Mark Chilton Company Secretary 21 May 2014 15
