16310Edinburgh pp08 19 16310Edinburgh pp08 1929 05 201414:18Page10 10 STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 BUSINESS REVIEW continued Analysis of Performance Analysis of Performance analyses the relative performance of the Company to its FOR YEAR TOTAL RETURN BASIS ENDED benchmark index.
31 MARCH 2014 Relative performance represents the % arithmatic difference between the NAV and Net asset value total return 12.5 the benchmark.
Benchmark total return 8.8 Net gearing effect measures the impact of Relative performance 3.7 the debenture stocks and cash on the Analysis of Relative Performance Companys relative performance.
This will be positive if the portfolio has positive Portfolio total return 13.1 performance.
Less Benchmark total return 8.8 Interest arising from the debenture stocks Portfolio outperformance 4.3 reduces the assets available to invest and has Debenture borrowings: a negative impact on performance.
Net gearing effect 2.3 Interest 1.7 Management fees the base fee and any Base management fee 0.6 performance fee reduce the Companys net Performance fee 0.4 assets and decrease performance.
Other expenses 0.1 Tax 0.1 Other expenses and tax reduce the level of assets and therefore result in a negative effect Total 3.7 for relative performance.
Financial Position and Borrowings At 31 March 2014 the Companys net assets were valued at 1,227.8 million 2013: 1,137.7 million comprising principally a portfolio of equity investments, cash and borrowings.
Borrowings were in the 3 1 form of two 100 million debentures.
The 7 4% debenture matures in 2022 and the 11 2% debenture matures on 30 June 2014.
As discussed in the Chairmans Statement, the Company has negotiated a new 100 million bank revolving credit facility and this will be used to repay the debenture and provide more flexible gearing.
The Company also has a bank overdraft facility of up to 10% of assets held by the Custodian which was undrawn at 31 March 2014: this facility is available to facilitate settlement of short-term cash timing differences and was largely unused during the year.
Outlook, including the Future of the Company The main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business can be found in the Portfolio Managers Report of this Strategic Report.
Further details of the principal risks affecting the Company follow.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Companys key long-term investment objectives are an increase in the net asset value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index the benchmark and an increase in dividends by more than the growth in RPI.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company are an integral consideration when assessing the operations in place to monitor these objectives, including the performance of the portfolio, share price and dividends.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the risk control systems but the day-to-day operation and monitoring is delegated to the Manager.
Market Risk The uncertainty over future equity market price movements is an inherent part of the rationale for the Companys existence.
The Companys assets principally consist of quoted securities.
The prices of these securities and the income derived from them are influenced by many factors such as general economic conditions, interest rates, inflation, political events, and government policies as well as by supply and demand reflecting investor sentiment.
Such factors are outside the control of the Board and Manager and may give rise to high levels of volatility in the prices of investments held by the Company.
The asset value and price of the Companys shares and its earnings and dividends may consequently also experience volatility and may decline.
16310Edinburgh pp08 19 16310Edinburgh pp08 1929 05 201414:18Page11 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 Investment Performance Risk The Board sets performance objectives and delegates the investment management process to the Manager.
The achievement of the Companys performance objectives relative to the market requires active management of the portfolio of assets and securities.
The Managers approach is to construct a portfolio which is compatible with the Managers view of future trends in the UK and global economies.
The Manager is a long term investor, prepared to take substantial positions in securities and sectors which may well be out of fashion, but which the Manager believes will have potential for material increases in earnings and, in due course, dividends and share prices.
Strategy, asset allocation and stock selection decisions by the Manager can lead to underperformance of the benchmark and or income targets.
The Managers style may result in a concentrated portfolio with significant overweight or underweight positions in individual stocks or sectors compared to the index and consequently the Companys performance may deviate significantly, possibly for extended periods, from that of the benchmark.
In a similar way, the Manager manages other portfolios holding many of the same stocks as the Company which reflects the Managers high conviction style of investment management.
This could significantly increase the liquidity and price risk of certain stocks under certain scenarios and market conditions.
However, the Board and Manager believe that the investment process and policy outlined above should, over the long term, meet the Companys objectives of capital growth in excess of the benchmark and real dividend growth.
Investment selection is delegated to the Manager.
The Board does not specify asset allocations.
Information on the Companys performance against the benchmark and peer group is provided to the Board on a quarterly basis.
The Board uses this to review the performance of the Company, taking into account how performance relates to the Companys objectives.
The Manager is responsible for monitoring the portfolio selected and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk-reward profile.
As shown in the investment policy, derivatives may be used provided that the market exposure arising is less than 25% of the value of the portfolio.
For part of the year, forward currency contracts were used for hedging, however, no derivatives were held at the year end.
Gearing and Borrowing Risk The Company has the ability to invest up to 200 million from its debenture stocks in the equity market.
The principal gearing risk is that the level of gearing may have an adverse impact on performance.
Secondary risks relate to whether the cost of borrowing is too high, whether the term of borrowing is appropriate, and if the Company could not replace the 100 million debenture which matures on 30 June 2014.
However, the Board are confident that the steps they have taken to replace the 100 million borrowing, represented by the debenture, will be successful.
The Manager has full discretion over the amount of the borrowing it uses to gear its portfolio, whilst the issuance, repurchase or restructuring of borrowing are for the Board to decide.
Information related to borrowing and gearing is provided to the Directors as part of the Board papers.
Additionally, the Board keeps under review the cost of buying back debt.
Income Dividend Risk The Company is subject to the risk that income generation from its investments fails to reach the level of income required to meet its objectives.
The Board monitors this risk through the review of detailed income forecasts and comparison against budget.
These are contained within the Board papers.
The Board considers the level of income at each meeting.
Share Price Risk There is a risk that the Companys prospects and NAV may not be fully reflected in the share price from time-to-time.
The share price is monitored on a daily basis.
The Board is empowered to repurchase shares within agreed parameters.
The discount at which the shares trade to NAV can be influenced by share repurchases.
The Company has not repurchased shares in the last year.
16310Edinburgh pp08 19 16310Edinburgh pp08 1929 05 201414:18Page12 12 STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 BUSINESS REVIEW continued Control Systems Risk The Board delegates a number of specific risk control activities to the Manager including: good practice industry standards in fund management operations: financial controls: meeting regulatory requirements: the management of the relationship with the Custodian in respect of the custody and security of the Companys assets: and the management of the relationship with the Registrar.
Consequently in respect of these activities the Company is dependent on the Managers control systems and those of its Custodian and Registrars, both of which are monitored by the Manager in the context of safeguarding the Companys assets and interests.
There is a risk that the Manager fails to ensure that these controls are operated in a satisfactory manner.
In addition, the Company relies on the soundness and efficiency of the Custodian for good title and timeliness of receipt and delivery of securities.
A risk-based programme of internal audits is carried out by the Manager regularly to test the controls environment.
An internal controls report providing an assessment of these risks is prepared by the Manager and considered by the Audit Committee, and is formally reported to and considered by the Board.
Reliance on Third Party Providers The Company has no employees and the Directors are all appointed on a non-executive basis.
The Company is reliant upon the performance of third party providers for its executive function.
The Companys most significant contract is with the Manager, to whom responsibility both for the Companys portfolio and for the provision of company secretarial and administrative services is delegated.
The Company has other contractual arrangements with third parties to act as auditor, registrar, custodian and broker.
Failure by any service provider to carry out its obligations to the Company in accordance with the terms of its appointment could have a materially detrimental impact on the operation of the Company and could affect the ability of the Company to pursue successfully its investment policy and expose the Company to risk of loss or to reputational risk.
In particular, the Manager performs services which are integral to the operation of the Company.
The Manager may be exposed to the risk that litigation, misconduct, operational failures, negative publicity and press speculation, whether or not it is valid, will harm its reputation.
Any damage to the reputation of the Manager could result in counterparties and third parties being unwilling to deal with the Manager and by extension the Company.
This could have an adverse impact on the ability of the Company to pursue its investment policy.
The Board seeks to manage these risks in a number of ways: The Manager monitors the performance of all third party providers in relation to agreed service standards on a regular basis, and any issues and concerns are dealt with promptly and reported to the Board.
The Manager formally reviews the performance of all third party providers and reports to the Board on an annual basis.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager at every board meeting and otherwise as appropriate.
The Board has the power to replace the Manager and reviews the management contract formally once a year.
The day-to-day management of the portfolio is the responsibility of the named portfolio manager.
This changed from Neil Woodford to Mark Barnett, effective 28 January 2014.
Neil was Head of UK Equities at Invesco Perpetual until April 2014, when this role was taken over by Mark.
Mark has worked in equity markets since 1992 and has been part of the UK equities team at Invesco Perpetual for 17 years.
The risk that the portfolio manager might be incapacitated or otherwise unavailable is mitigated by the fact that he works within, and is supported by, the wider Invesco Perpetual UK Equity team.
The Board has set guidelines within which the portfolio manager is permitted wide discretion.
Any proposed variation outside these guidelines is referred to the Board and compliance with the guidelines and the guidelines themselves are reviewed at every board meeting.
Referendum on Scottish Independence The Company is registered in Scotland and the Board is mindful of the referendum on Scottish independence in September 2014.
The Board considers that a vote for Scottish independence will create major prolonged uncertainties, both for the Scottish economy including tax and currency and for the regulatory environment in which the Company operates.
