16310 Edinburgh pp24 32 16310 Edinburgh pp24 32 29 05 2014 14:17 Page 27 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 Invesco Pepetual and the appointment of his named successor, and the associated revisions to the investment management agreement.
Directors Directors Interests in Shares The Directors interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 34.
Disclosable Interests No Director was a party to, or had any interests in, any contract or arrangement with the Company at any time during the year or at the year end.
Directors Indemnities and Insurance The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance which provides appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors.
In addition, deeds of indemnity have been executed on behalf of the Company for each of the Directors under the Companys Articles of Association.
Subject to the provisions of UK legislation, these deeds provide that the Directors may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company in respect of liabilities they may sustain or incur in connection with their appointment.
Conflicts of Interest A Director must avoid a situation where he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or has the potential to conflict with the companys interests.
The Articles of Association of the Company give the Directors authority to authorise potential conflicts of interest and there are safeguards which apply when Directors decide whether to do so.
Firstly, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors can impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Directors have declared any potential conflicts of interest to the Company.
The Register of Potential Conflicts of Interests is kept at the Registered Office of the Company.
It is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Directors will advise the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any potential conflicts of interest.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Companys systems of internal financial and non-financial controls the internal controls which are designed to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets which have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
The Companys internal controls and risk management systems have been reviewed with the Manager against risk parameters approved by the Board.
The Board reviews, at least annually, the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance and risk management systems.
The Companys system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the Companys investment objective and or adhere to the Companys investment policy and or investment limits.
This system can therefore provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that the necessary actions were taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from their review.
No significant failings or weaknesses occurred throughout the year ended 31 March 2014 and up to the date of this annual financial report.
The Board reviews financial reports and performance against forecasts, relevant stock market criteria and the Companys peer group.
In addition, the Manager and Custodian maintain their own systems of internal controls and the Board and the Audit Committee receive regular reports from the Internal Audit and Compliance Departments of the Manager.
Formal reports are also produced annually on the internal controls and procedures in place for the operation of secretarial and administrative, custodial, investment management and accounting activities.
The programme of reviews is set up by the Manager and the reports are not necessarily directed to the affairs of any one client of the Manager.
