32 Risk management and principal risks Our open and transparent culture underpins our approach to managing Risk management and understanding risk within the business.
Darren Boland Chief Risk Officer The Board is responsible for prudent appetite and how the Group operates Risk Strategy and Appetite oversight of the Groups Business and see diagram below.
The Groups Risk Appetite incorporates financial operations, ensuring that they a range of quantitative and qualitative The Board has set a robust risk are conducted in accordance with sound measures of risk supporting our Strategic management strategy and framework business principles and with applicable Risk Objectives, against which the actual as an integral element in its pursuit of law and regulation.
This encompasses or planned exposures and uncertainties business objectives and in the fulfilment responsibility to articulate and monitor can be monitored.
This monitoring is of its obligations to shareholders, adherence to quantifiable and reflected in regular reporting to the regulators, customers and staff.
measurable statements of the Boards Executive Risk Committee and the Board appetite for exposure to all risk types.
The Groups risk management framework The Board also ensures that measures is proportionate to the risks that we face The Risk Appetite forms a fundamental are in place to provide independent and and organised around the core elements part of the way we think about and objective assurance on the effective of Risk Strategy and Appetite, Risk assess risk, setting out the types and identification and management of risk Governance, and the associated level of risk that we are willing to accept and on the effectiveness of the controls Risk Reporting.
or avoid in the pursuit of our strategy.
in place to mitigate those risks.
These are considered within our strategic The Groups risk management In order to set boundaries to the decisions and business planning but also framework is dynamic and continues to acceptance of risk exposures, the Board form a critical element in the way that we be enhanced and developed to ensure has set out the following Strategic Risk think about risk within the Business.
This it meets the needs of the Group.
Statements that underpin our risk ensures that our staff understand how Strategic Risk Statements Our goal is to manage volatility within a cyclical market for our Earnings shareholders through targeted growth opportunities, continuous adaptation in our underwriting and a focus on expense management.
Financial Capital and We ensure there are appropriate financial resources in place to Liquidity deliver on our corporate and policyholder obligations.
Our brands represent our promise to our customers Reputation and are central to our continued success.
How we treat our customers is at the core of everything we do and, Conduct through our strategy, culture and service delivery, we aim to deliver Non-financial Risk & Culture fair outcomes to our customers.
Our people are what makes us successful and we aim to continue People to invest in our employees, ensuring the Group is a rewarding place to work.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 33 their day-to-day decisions support the The results of stress, scenario and policies covering material risks that we Risk Appetite and Strategic Risk sensitivity testing and the findings, face.
Each of these policies is subject to Objectives through our business risk recommendations and management annual review and approval.
This feedback loop ensures actions arising from reviews Regulation that our Risk Appetite is cascaded and conducted by the compliance and The UK motor and home markets are embedded within the Group.
internal audit functions regulated by various bodies, including Risk reporting A key strength of the Groups risk but not limited to Prudential Regulation The risk management framework is management strategy is the integration Authority PRA, Financial Conduct designed to ensure that the Risk of risk assessment and evaluation into Authority FCA and the Competition Committee receive timely and the Groups business planning and capital and Markets Authority CMA.
appropriate reporting on our exposure management processes.
A summary of their findings in 2014 can to existing and emerging risks in each Risk governance be found below: of the core risk categories insurance, In accordance with recognised good market, counterparty credit, operational, The FCA conducted a thematic review practice, the Group operates a three lines regulatory and liquidity.
Strategic risks titled Insurers management of claims of defence governance framework.
This and the reputational consequences of household and retail travel in 2013 is set out below.
The Groups risk these risk exposures are considered and published its results in May 2014 governance is underpinned by a risk within this risk reporting.
management function headed by the Communication and ownership Such reporting is supported by: Chief Risk Officer, a member of the throughout claim Executive team reporting to the Chief Updates to the Groups risk registers Management of supply chains Executive Officer, but with independence covering current and emerging risks assured through direct and independent Clarity of product documentation access to the Chairmen of the Audit Reports on events that have resulted In addition, a Market Study was conducted Committee and the Risk Committee.
in actual or potential financial or on General Insurance Add-Ons: Final reputational losses to the Group or The Risk Strategy, Appetite and Report Confirmed Findings of the Market its customers framework are articulated in a suite of Study in July 2014.
Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA Our Board and senior management have confidence in Earnings ORSA how we are embedding our strategic risk objectives.
Capital and Liquidity Reputation Conduct There is a clear linkage between People our Strategic Risk Objectives and Strategic Risk our Risk Appetite.
Objectives Our strategic decisions and plans are aligned to and support our Risk Appetite.
Business Plan Risk Appetite Strategic Decisions The Risk Appetite is cascaded down to our Business units and their performance on a daily basis supports this.
Reportable Risk Register Risk and Key Risk Events and Emerging and Compliance Indicators Incident Risks Assessments Reviews Management esure Group Annual Report 2014 34 Risk management and principal risks continued The findings from this market study are On 1 October 2014 the latest stage Solvency II is scheduled for as follows: of the government reforms aimed at implementation on 1 January 2016. combating fraudulent claims and The PRA have released further Proposed banning default opt-out sales reducing the cost of motor insurance clarification points during 2014 and came into effect.
This legislation set the the Group remains on track to meet the Improvements to how price cost of the initial medical report in a aims of Solvency II, which includes the comparison websites provide add-on personal injury case at 180.
This reform following key ideas: options and pricing also prohibits the medical expert who Market consistent balance sheets Proposed publishing claims ratios produced the medical report from offering treatment to the injured.
Risk-based capital Formal consultation is expected in the first half of 2015 by the FCA.
In November 2014, the FCA published ORSA its findings from its thematic review into In September 2014, the CMA reported Senior management accountability Complaint handling.
The thematic its final report into the UK private motor review made the following insurance market and issued the Supervisory assessment recommendations: following findings: Further information on Solvency II can Increasing the time that firms can Wide Most Favoured Nation clauses be found on page 37 of the Risk deal with the initial expression of MFNs have been banned for Management section.
dissatisfaction Price Comparison Websites Flood Re is due for implementation in PCWs contracts Making all complaints reportable late 2015 with the aim of providing Improved transparency on No Claims affordable home insurance cover to all.
Banning the use of telephone Bonus protection Flood Re is a not-for-profit flood numbers which charge more than reinsurance fund, owned and managed the basic rate Recommendation that the FCA give by the insurance industry.
The Group further consideration to add-ons in Giving all complainants the right continues to work closely with the relation to how price information and to refer their complaint to the Association of British Insurers ABI product descriptions are provided to Financial Ombudsman Service if in developing the scheme.
consumers on PCWs they remain dissatisfied Board and Board committees Strategy and oversight Board of Directors Setting of and ensuring the adherence to the company risk strategy and independent risk Risk Committee Audit Committee oversight.
Executive Committees and Management Risk Management and Internal Audit Team Compliance Team outsourced to Mazars LLP Management Committees and Operational Teams 1st Line of Defence 2nd Line of Defence 3rd Line of Defence Operational Business area Risk Management and Compliance Team Internal Audit Risk ownership and management Oversight, challenge, embed, Independent, objective assurance on the Primary responsibility for the risks that educate and coordination of Risk internal control environment, focusing on we take in the pursuit of our business and Compliance Activities the design and operating effectiveness of objectives, and for due observance of Design, coordinate and embed a consistent the governance processes, risk risk management practices, processes framework for taking risks and monitoring management procedures, internal and controls.
compliance, but without being directly control and information systems.
responsible for the assumption of exposure to business risks.
This includes reporting to the Audit Committee and Board on risk management and internal control.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 35 The Directors consider that the principal Principal risks risks and uncertainties facing the Group are as follows: Insurance Risk Risk Impact Mitigation and management Underwriting risk from pricing If the Groups general pricing The Group continues to monitor developments strategy the risk of an strategy is not managed through regular sensitivity testing of the key variables inappropriate pricing strategy could correctly, it could result in an affecting loss performance, including loss ratios, risk lead to business being written at unintended change in the mix, pricing, quote conversion, renewal retention uneconomic rates and result in lower Groups risk profile, market ratios, claims costs, claims frequency and the than expected profitability.
This share and loss ratio.
could be driven by internal pricing Action regarding these risks is taken in an integrated changes or changes in the rating approach between the executive team, underwriting, environment within the market.
There is strong and regular monitoring in place to understand and react to the changing market rating environment, ensuring that we are well placed to benefit from any movements.
Underwriting risk from claims An unplanned deterioration Loss ratio risk is managed through a robust claims costs the risk that a material in the loss ratio, arising management process and regular monitoring and increase in claims costs could from inflation in claims sensitivity testing of the key variables affecting loss negatively impact the Groups costs beyond planned and performance, including risk mix, pricing relative to the financial performance.
This includes achievable increases market, quote conversion and renewal retention risks arising from adverse claims in premiums.
ratios, claims costs, claims frequency and the litigation outcomes, increases in adequacy of reserves.
frequency of PPOs and potential changes to the Ogden discount rate.
Reserving risk the risk that Adverse development in We have a prudent approach to reserving risk the insufficient funds have been set prior year reserves resulting Groups actuarial function analyses and projects aside to settle and handle claims as in deterioration of financial historical claims development data and uses a number the amounts fall due.
of actuarial techniques to both test and forecast claims provisions.
In addition, the Group also provides data to independent external actuaries who assess the adequacy of the Groups claims provisions.
Apart from historical analysis, the Group also takes into account changes in risk profile and underwriting policy conditions, changes in legislation or regulation and changes in other external factors including assumptions on PPOs and potential changes to the Ogden discount rate.
Financial Risk Financial risk the risk that The preparation of financial The Group reviews financial estimates and underlying inaccurate financial estimates or information requires assumptions on an ongoing basis taking into account judgements could misrepresent our management to make changes in underwriting conditions, changes in financial position and change key judgements, estimates and legislation or regulation, and market movements.
Actual results In addition, independent external actuaries assess the may differ from these adequacy of the Groups technical provisions.
estimates, which could impact Ultimately, the oversight of the Groups material key business decisions.
financial estimates and judgements resides with the Audit Committee.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 36 Risk management and principal risks continued Market Risk Risk Impact Mitigation and management Market risk from investment Changes in UK interest rates Our investment strategy does not expose the Group to activity the risk that a negative or investment markets impact material currency risk or the risks arising from active financial impact arises from holdings the return on and market trading of derivatives.
Market risk is managed through in interest rate, currency and equity valuation of the Groups regular monitoring, including the drivers of investment products, all of which are exposed to investment portfolio.
return and value at risk measures, counterparty general and specific market exposures and interest rate sensitivities.
Default risk from investment Defaults from investment The Group manages the level of investment counterparty the risk that an counterparties impact both counterparty credit risk it accepts by placing limits investment counterparty will not be the income from, and market on its exposure to a single counterparty or groups able to pay amounts in full when due valuation of, the Groups of counterparties, and on geographical counterparties in accordance with the term of the investment portfolio.
Such risks are subject contract, causing the Group to incur to regular review within the Investment Committee.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had no direct exposure to peripheral Eurozone countries sovereign debt.
Counterparty Credit Risk Credit risk from reinsurance Reinsurance counterparty The creditworthiness of reinsurers is managed on counterparty the largest defaults reduce the protection an annual basis by reviewing their financial strength counterparty credit risk we are provided through our prudent prior to finalisation of any contract.
In addition, exposed to relates to reinsurers.
This management assesses the creditworthiness of all This risk arises if they are not able will have a direct impact on reinsurers by reviewing credit grades provided by to pay amounts in full when due in the reinsurance asset and rating agencies and other publicly available accordance with the terms of the earnings in the year of information, as well as the concentration risk within contract, causing the Group to default.
In addition, the different reinsurers and the Group.
reduction in the level of An analysis of reinsurers by Standard & Poors and reinsurance due to the default AM Best ratings is produced and reviewed on a may increase the volatility in quarterly basis.
Conduct Risk The risk we conduct ourselves, Potentially resulting in Our culture and tone from the top ensures the culturally and operationally, in a reputational issues and interests of our customers and their fair treatment manner that is disadvantageous regulatory censure.
to our clients and cause them We have a strong governance framework and our detriment.
Conduct Risk and Customer Committee reviews all aspects of our customer service.
Board oversight is ensured by upward reporting of a suite of Conduct Risk Appetite statements and measures.
Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk the risk that the A reduction in liquidity could The Group continues to monitor its liquidity risk by Group, although solvent, does not have an impact on our ability considering the Groups operating cash flows, stressed have available sufficient financial to meet our financial for catastrophe scenarios, dividend payouts, liquidity resources to enable it to meet its commitments as they fall due strains and investment strategy to mitigate this risk.
obligations as they fall due or can or restrict our ability to pay The Group also considers the matching of the only secure them at excessive cost.
investment portfolio with its insurance liabilities to mitigate and manage this risk.
In addition to monitoring cash flows, the matching of the duration of assets and liabilities is also monitored within the Investment Committee.
Oversight of the Groups investment strategy and the associated liquidity risk is undertaken by the Investment Committee.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 37 Operational Risk Risk Impact Mitigation and management Financial crime the risk that Increased exposure to actual A range of preventative, monitoring and detective there is an increase in losses or attempted financial crime controls are in place to combat such fraudulent through crime.
activity could result in activity at the key points of entry policy inception financial loss, reputational and claims.
impact or regulatory The monitoring and mitigation of financial crime is intervention.
managed by the Groups financial crime team supported by the rest of the Business.
Data Security the risk of This could have a detrimental The Group has robust systems in place to mitigate compromise to the integrity, impact on our customers or such risks, including perimeter firewalls and intrusion confidentiality or availability of staff, on the reputation of the detection systems, anti-virus protection, laptop customer or staff personal Group, or on our profitability encryption, logical and physical access restrictions, information, or of commercially and share price.
There is also rigorous vetting of new and existing staff and a clear sensitive information.
the potential for regulatory desk policy.
These controls are rigorously enforced intervention or fines resulting within the Group.
Systems failure the risk that the The failure or degradation of The Group has systems monitoring and incidence current systems fail to deliver the our key platforms including management processes in place to mitigate this risk.
websites from which the A key element to the prevention of this risk is a robust majority of new business is change management programme which is subject to sourced, compromise of rigorous project management disciplines from corporate data or, in programme development through to deployment.
particular, the personal data The Group has a Reportable Events process which with which we are entrusted reports and manages any systems failure, which is and material performance reported to the Board Risk Committee.
failures by key infrastructure suppliers.
Legal and Regulatory Risk Regulatory or legal intervention There are a number of The Group continues to monitor legal and regulatory or changes the risk that legal or ongoing and future regulatory developments in the UK and Europe, through our close regulatory reforms could negatively reviews of the general relationship with our regulators the FCA and PRA impact the Groups financial insurance retail sector.
These and other official bodies and the use of proactive risk performance or position.
reviews could have an impact management tools and processes to mitigate our on the revenue streams that exposure to regulatory risk.
we currently have in place There is continued focus on the evolution of additional and future revenue streams.
insurance products and how we sell these products with the customer in mind.
Solvency II Solvency II implementation the Until Solvency II is The Group continues to monitor developments and risk that Solvency II is not implemented in January 2016 engage with the PRA to ensure that we are able to appropriately implemented within there remains some mitigate potential issues before they arise.
The esure or that there are unforeseen uncertainty regarding the current risk management, actuarial and finance teams changes that impact the capital potential implications on have been enhanced to ensure that there are position.
In addition, the focus on esure and the market.
appropriately skilled individuals available to implement management in meeting the needs the Solvency II requirements effectively.
of Solvency II increases the likelihood of another risk arising.
This section together with the reports set out on pages 1 to 37 of the Annual Report constitute the Strategic Report.
Signed on behalf of the Board.
Stuart Vann Darren Ogden Chief Executive Officer Chief Finance Officer esure Group Annual Report 2014
