BPs group risk team analyses the groups risk prole and maintains the group risk management system.
Our group audit team provides Our management of risk independent assurance to the group chief executive and board, as to whether the groups system of internal control is adequately designed and operating effectively to respond appropriately to the risks that are BP manages, monitors and reports on the principal risks and uncertainties significant to BP.
that can impact our ability to deliver our strategy of meeting the worlds Risk governance and oversight energy needs responsibly while creating long-term shareholder value: these risks are described in the Risk factors on page 48.
Key risk governance and oversight committees include the following: Our management systems, organizational structures, processes, Executive committees standards, code of conduct and behaviours together form a system of Executive team meeting for strategic and commercial risks.
internal control that governs how we conduct the business of BP and manage associated risks.
Group operations risk committee for health, safety, security, environment and operations integrity risks.
BPs risk management system BPs risk management system is designed to be a consistent and clear Group financial risk committee for finance, treasury, trading and framework for managing and reporting risks from the groups operations to cyber risks.
The system seeks to avoid incidents and maximize business Group disclosure committee for financial reporting risks.
outcomes by allowing us to: Group people committee for employee risks.
t Understand the risk environment, and assess the specic risks and potential exposure for BP.
Resource commitment meeting for investment decision risks.
t Determine how best to deal with these risks to manage overall potential Group ethics and compliance committee for legal and regulatory exposure.
t Manage the identied risks in appropriate ways.
t Board and its committees Monitor and seek assurance of the effectiveness of the management of these risks and intervene for improvement where necessary.
t Report up the management chain and to the board on a periodic basis Audit committee.
on how significant risks are being managed, monitored, assured and the improvements that are being made.
Safety, ethics and environment assurance committee.
Our risk management activities Gulf of Mexico committee.
Day-to-day risk Business and Oversight and Board committees management strategic risk governance For information on the board and its committees see page 58. management Identify, manage Set policy and report risks Plan, manage and monitor Risk management processes performance principal risks As part of BPs annual planning process, we review the groups principal and assure risks and uncertainties.
These may be updated throughout the year in response to changes in internal and external circumstances.
We aim for a consistent basis of measuring risk to allow comparison on a like-for-like basis, taking into account potential likelihood and impact, and to inform how we prioritize specic risk management activities and invest Facilities, Business Executive Board resources to manage them.
assets and segments and corporate Our risk prole operations and functions functions The nature of our business operations is long term, resulting in many of our risks being enduring in nature.
Nonetheless, risks can develop and evolve Day-to-day risk management management and staff at our over time and their potential impact or likelihood may vary in response to facilities, assets and functions identify and manage risk, promoting safe, internal and external events.
BP requirements, which take into We identify those risks as having a high priority for particular oversight by account applicable laws and regulations, underpin the practical plans the board and its various committees in the coming year.
Those identied developed to help reduce risk and deliver strong, sustainable performance.
These may be updated throughout the year For example, our operating management system OMS integrates BP in response to changes in internal and external circumstances.
requirements on health, safety, security, environment, social responsibility, operational reliability and related issues.
The oversight and management of other risks is undertaken in the Business and strategic risk management our businesses and normal course of business throughout the business and in executive functions integrate risk into key business processes such as strategy, and board committees.
For example market pricing and liquidity reviews planning, performance management, resource and capital allocation, are conducted on a regular basis by the board and executive committees, and project appraisal.
We do this by using a standard framework for including the group financial risk committee, to consider how we respond collating risk data, assessing risk management activities, making further to market conditions and when making or reviewing investment decisions.
improvements and planning new activities.
For further information see page 10.
Oversight and governance functional leadership, the executive team, There can be no certainty that our risk management activities will mitigate the board and relevant committees provide oversight to identify, or prevent these, or other risks, from occurring.
understand and endorse management of significant risks to BP.
They also Further details of the principal risks and uncertainties we face are set put in place systems of risk management, compliance and control to out in Risk factors on page 48. mitigate these risks.
Executive committees set policy and oversee the management of significant risks, and dedicated board committees review and monitor certain risks throughout the year.
46 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Strategic report Risks for particular oversight by the board and its Safety and operational risks committees in 2015 Process safety, personal safety and environmental risks The nature of the groups operating activities exposes us to a wide range of The risks for particular oversight by the board and committees in 2015 significant health, safety and environmental risks such as incidents associated remain the same as those for 2014 except that we have replaced risks with releases of hydrocarbons when drilling wells, operating facilities and associated with delivery of our 10-point plan, which has now been transporting hydrocarbons.
delivered, with those relating to major project delivery one of our group key performance indicators.
Our OMS helps us manage these risks and drive performance improvements.
It sets out the rules and principles which govern key risk management Gulf of Mexico oil spill activities such as inspection, maintenance, testing, business continuity and A wide range of risks have arisen as a result of the Gulf of Mexico oil crisis response planning and competency development.
These include legal, operational, reputational and compliance risks.
conduct our drilling activity through a global wells organization in order to promote a consistent approach for designing, constructing and managing BPs management and mitigation of these risks is overseen by the boards Gulf of Mexico committee, which seeks to ensure that BP fulls all wells.
legitimate obligations while protecting and defending BPs interests.
For more information on safety and our OMS see page 39.
The committees responsibilities include oversight and review of the following activities: the legal strategy for litigation: the strategy connected Security with settlements and claims: the environmental work to remediate or Hostile acts such as terrorism or piracy could harm our people and disrupt our mitigate the effects of the oil spill: management strategy and actions to operations.
We monitor for emerging threats and vulnerabilities to manage our restore the groups reputation in the US: and compliance with government physical and information security.
settlement and administrative agreements arising out of the accident and Our central security team provides guidance and support to a network of oil spill.
regional security advisers who advise and conduct assurance with respect to the management of security risks affecting our people and operations.
We See Legal proceedings page 228, Financial statements Note 2 and also maintain disaster recovery, crisis and business continuity management Gulf of Mexico committee page 69 for further information.
We continue to monitor the situation in the Middle East and North Africa Strategic and commercial risks closely.
Geopolitical Compliance and control risks The diverse locations of our operations around the world expose us to a wide Ethical misconduct and legal or regulatory non-compliance range of political developments and consequent changes to the economic and Ethical misconduct or breaches of applicable laws or regulations could operating environment.
Geopolitical risk is inherent to many regions in which damage our reputation, adversely affect operational results and shareholder we operate, and heightened political or social tensions or changes in key value, and potentially affect our licence to operate.
relationships could adversely affect the group.
Our code of conduct and our values and behaviours, applicable to all We seek to actively manage this risk through development and maintenance employees, are central to managing this risk.
Additionally, we have various of relationships with governments and stakeholders and becoming trusted group requirements and training covering areas such as anti-bribery and partners in each country and region.
In addition, we closely monitor events corruption, anti-money laundering, competition anti-trust law and international such as the situation that arose in Ukraine in 2014 and implement risk trade regulations.
We seek to keep abreast of new regulations and legislation mitigation plans where appropriate.
and plan our response to them.
We offer an independent condential helpline, Major project delivery OpenTalk, for employees, contractors and other third parties.
Under the terms Renewing our portfolio requires ongoing innovation and development in of the US Department of Justice settlement, an ethics monitor will also review exploration, production, processing and distribution.
Major projects contribute and provide recommendations concerning BPs ethics and compliance signicantly to reshaping our portfolio and delivering our strategy.
To manage the risks associated with major project delivery, each stage of a Find out more about our code of conduct, our business ethics and projects life cycle must meet certain criteria to proceed to the next stage, the ethics monitor on pages 45, 44 and 37 respectively.
or it will be re-assessed to improve value or be discontinued.
Additionally, executive directors regularly review capital allocation at the resource Trading non-compliance commitment meetings.
In the upstream our global projects organization In the normal course of business, we are subject to risks around our trading focuses specically on major projects and the risks to their delivery.
We activities which could arise from shortcomings or failures in our systems, risk undertake post-project evaluations to review decision-making processes, management methodology, internal control processes or employees.
project execution and project outcomes, and share these with other major We have specic operating standards and control processes to manage these projects as appropriate to support continuous improvement.
risks, including guidelines specic to trading, and seek to monitor compliance through our dedicated compliance teams.
We also seek to maintain a positive For information on our major projects portfolio see page 26, and for and collaborative relationship with regulators and the industry at large.
a recent example of how we remodel projects see Increasing value on page 21.
For further information see Upstream gas marketing and trading Cybersecurity activities on page 28, Downstream supply and trading on page 31 The threats to the security of our digital infrastructure continue to evolve and Financial statements Note 27. rapidly and, like many other global organizations, our reliance on computers and network technology is increasing.
A cybersecurity breach could have a significant impact on business operations.
We seek to manage this risk through cybersecurity standards, ongoing monitoring of threats, testing of cyber response procedures and close co-operation with authorities.
Over the past few years our employee campaigns on topics such as email phishing and the protection of our information and equipment have helped to raise awareness of these issues.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 47 Dened on page 252.
