Major project delivery failure to invest in the best opportunities or deliver major projects successfully could adversely affect our Risk factors financial performance.
We face challenges in developing major projects, particularly in geographically and technically challenging areas.
Operational challenges The risks discussed below, separately or in combination, could have a and poor investment choice, efficiency or delivery at any major project that material adverse effect on the implementation of our strategy, our underpins production or production growth could adversely affect our business, financial performance, results of operations, cash ows, liquidity, financial performance.
prospects, shareholder value and returns and reputation.
Geopolitical we are exposed to a range of political developments and Gulf of Mexico oil spill consequent changes to the operating and regulatory environment.
We operate and may seek new opportunities in countries and regions The spill has had and could continue to have a material adverse impact where political, economic and social transition may take place.
instability, changes to the regulatory environment or taxation, international There is significant uncertainty regarding the extent and timing of the sanctions, expropriation or nationalization of property, civil strife, strikes, remaining costs and liabilities relating to the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill insurrections, acts of terrorism and acts of war may disrupt or curtail our the incident, including the amount of claims, fines and penalties that operations or development activities.
These may in turn cause production become payable by BP including as a result of any ultimate determination to decline, limit our ability to pursue new opportunities, affect the of BPs appeal of the ruling of gross negligence, the outcome or resolution recoverability of our assets or cause us to incur additional costs, particularly of current or future litigation and any costs arising from any longer-term due to the long-term nature of many of our projects and significant capital environmental consequences of the incident, the impact of the incident on expenditure required.
our reputation and the resulting possible impact on our licence to operate.
Rosneft investment our investment in Rosneft may be impacted by The provisions recognized in the income statement represent the current events in or relating to Russia and our ability to recognize our share of best estimates of expenditures required to settle certain present Rosnefts income, production and reserves may be adversely impacted.
obligations that can be reliably estimated at the end of the reporting period, and there are future expenditures for which we currently cannot measure Events in or relating to Russia, including further trade restrictions and other our obligations reliably.
These uncertainties are likely to continue for a sanctions, could adversely impact our investment in Russia.
To the extent significant period.
See Financial statements Note 2. we are unable in the future to exercise significant inuence over our investment in Rosneft or pursue growth opportunities in Russia, our The risks associated with the incident could also heighten the impact of business and strategic objectives in Russia and our ability to recognize our other risks the group is exposed to as described below.
share of Rosnefts income, production and reserves may be adversely impacted.
Strategic and commercial risks Liquidity, financial capacity and financial, including credit, Prices and markets our financial performance is subject to uctuating exposure failure to work within our financial framework could impact our prices of oil, gas, rened products, exchange rate uctuations and the ability to operate and result in financial loss.
Failure to accurately forecast, manage or maintain sufficient liquidity and Oil, gas and product prices are subject to international supply and demand credit could impact our ability to operate and result in financial loss.
Trade and margins can be volatile.
Political developments, increased supply from and other receivables, including overdue receivables, may not be recovered new oil and gas sources, technological change, global economic conditions and a substantial and unexpected cash call or funding request could disrupt and the inuence of OPEC can impact supply and prices for our products.
our financial framework or overwhelm our ability to meet our obligations.
Decreases in oil, gas or product prices could have an adverse effect on revenue, margins and profitability and, if significant, we may have to write An event such as a significant operational incident, legal proceedings or a geopolitical event in an area where we have significant activities, could down assets and re-assess the viability of certain projects.
A prolonged period of low prices may impact our cash ows, profit, capital expenditure reduce our credit ratings.
This could potentially increase nancing costs and limit access to nancing or engagement in our trading activities on and ability to maintain our long-term investment programme.
Conversely, an increase in oil, gas and product prices may not improve margin acceptable terms, which could put pressure on the groups liquidity.
Credit rating downgrades could trigger a requirement for the company to review performance as there could be increased scal take, cost ination and more onerous terms for access to resources.
The profitability of our its funding arrangements with the BP pension trustees and may cause other impacts on financial performance.
In the event of extended rening and petrochemicals activities can be volatile, with periodic over-supply or supply tightness in regional markets and uctuations in constraints on our ability to obtain nancing, we could be required to reduce capital expenditure or increase asset disposals in order to provide demand.
See Liquidity and capital resources on page 211 and Exchange rate uctuations can create currency exposures and impact Financial statements Note 27. underlying costs and revenues.
Crude oil prices are generally set in US Joint arrangements and contractors we may have limited control dollars, while products vary in currency.
Many of our major project development costs are denominated in local currencies, which may be over the standards, operations and compliance of our partners, contractors and sub-contractors.
subject to uctuations against the US dollar.
Access, renewal and reserves progression our inability to access, We conduct many of our activities through joint arrangements, renew and progress upstream resources in a timely manner could associates or with contractors and sub-contractors where we may have adversely affect our long-term replacement of reserves.
limited inuence and control over the performance of such operations.
Our partners and contractors are responsible for the adequacy of the resources Delivering our group strategy depends on our ability to continually replenish and capabilities they bring to a project.
If these are found to be lacking, a strong exploration pipeline of future opportunities to access and produce there may be financial, operational or safety risks for BP.
Should an incident oil and natural gas.
Competition for access to investment opportunities, occur in an operation that BP participates in, our partners and contractors heightened political and economic risks in certain countries where may be unable or unwilling to fully compensate us against costs we may significant hydrocarbon basins are located and increasing technical incur on their behalf or on behalf of the arrangement.
Where we do not challenges and capital commitments may adversely affect our strategic have operational control of a venture, we may still be pursued by regulators progress.
This, and our ability to progress upstream resources and sustain or claimants in the event of an incident.
long-term reserves replacement, could impact our future production and financial performance.
48 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Strategic report Digital infrastructure and cybersecurity breach of our digital security sometimes conducted in hazardous, remote or environmentally sensitive or failure of our digital infrastructure could damage our operations and our locations, where the consequences of such events could be greater than in reputation.
A breach or failure of our digital infrastructure due to intentional actions Drilling and production challenging operational environments and other such as attacks on our cybersecurity, negligence or other reasons, could uncertainties can impact drilling and production activities.
seriously disrupt our operations and could result in the loss or misuse of Our activities require high levels of investment and are often conducted in data or sensitive information, injury to people, disruption to our business, extremely challenging environments which heighten the risks of technical harm to the environment or our assets, legal or regulatory breaches and integrity failure and the impact of natural disasters.
The physical potentially legal liability.
These could result in significant costs or characteristic of an oil or natural gas eld, and cost of drilling, completing or reputational consequences.
operating wells is often uncertain.
We may be required to curtail, delay or Climate change and carbon pricing public policies could increase cancel drilling operations because of a variety of factors, including costs and reduce future revenue and strategic growth opportunities.
unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in geological Changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to climate change formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions could result in substantial capital expenditure, taxes and reduced and compliance with governmental requirements.
In the future, these could potentially impact our upstream Security hostile acts against our staff and activities could cause harm to assets, revenue generation and strategic growth opportunities.
people and disrupt our operations.
Competition inability to remain efficient, innovate and retain an Acts of terrorism, piracy, sabotage and similar activities directed against our appropriately skilled workforce could negatively impact delivery of our operations and facilities, pipelines, transportation or digital infrastructure strategy in a highly competitive market.
could cause harm to people and severely disrupt business and operations.
Our strategic progress and performance could be impeded if we are Our activities could also be severely affected by conict, civil strife or unable to control our development and operating costs and margins, or to political unrest.
sustain, develop and operate a high-quality portfolio of assets efficiently.
We could be adversely affected if competitors offer superior terms for Product quality supplying customers with off-specication products access rights or licences, or if our innovation in areas such as exploration, could damage our reputation, lead to regulatory action and legal liability, production, rening or manufacturing lags the industry.
Our performance and potentially impact our financial performance.
could also be negatively impacted if we fail to protect our intellectual Failure to meet product quality standards could cause harm to people and property.
the environment, damage our reputation, result in regulatory action and Our industry faces increasing challenge to recruit and retain skilled and legal liability, and impact financial performance.
experienced people in the elds of science, technology, engineering and mathematics.
Successful recruitment, development and retention of Compliance and control risks specialist staff is essential to our plans.
US government settlements our settlements with legal and regulatory Crisis management and business continuity potential disruption bodies in the US in respect of certain charges related to the Gulf of Mexico to our business and operations could occur if we do not address an oil spill may expose us to further penalties, liabilities and private litigation or incident effectively.
could result in suspension or debarment of certain BP entities.
Our business and operating activities could be disrupted if we do not respond, or are perceived not to respond, in an appropriate manner to any Settlements with the US Department of Justice DoJ and the US major crisis or if we are not able to restore or replace critical operational Securities and Exchange Commission SEC impose significant compliance capacity.
and remedial obligations on BP and its directors, ofcers and employees, including the appointment of an ethics monitor, a process safety monitor Insurance our insurance strategy could expose the group to material and an independent third-party auditor.
Failure to comply with the terms uninsured losses.
of these settlements could result in further enforcement action by the DoJ BP generally purchases insurance only in situations where this is legally and the SEC, expose us to severe penalties, financial or otherwise, and and contractually required.
We typically bear losses as they arise rather subject BP to further private litigation, each of which could impact our than spreading them over time through insurance premiums.
This means operations and have a material adverse effect on the groups reputation uninsured losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial and financial performance.
Failure to satisfy the requirements or comply position, particularly if they arise at a time when we are facing material with the terms of the administrative agreement with the US Environmental costs as a result of a significant operational event which could put pressure Protection Agency EPA, under which BP agreed to a set of safety and on our liquidity and cash ows.
operations, ethics and compliance and corporate governance requirements, could result in suspension or debarment of certain Safety and operational risks BP entities.
Process safety, personal safety, and environmental risks we are Regulation changes in the regulatory and legislative environment could exposed to a wide range of health, safety, security and environmental risks increase the cost of compliance, affect our provisions and limit our access that could result in regulatory action, legal liability, increased costs, damage to new exploration opportunities.
to our reputation and potentially denial of our licence to operate.
Governments that award exploration and production interests may impose Technical integrity failure, natural disasters, human error and other adverse specic drilling obligations, environmental, health and safety controls, events or conditions could lead to loss of containment of hydrocarbons or controls over the development and decommissioning of a eld and other hazardous materials, as well as res, explosions or other personal possibly, nationalization, expropriation, cancellation or non-renewal of and process safety incidents, including when drilling wells, operating contract rights.
Royalties and taxes tend to be high compared with those of facilities and those associated with transportation by road, sea or pipeline.
other commercial activities, and in certain jurisdictions there is a degree of There can be no certainty that our operating management system or other uncertainty relating to tax law interpretation and changes.
Governments policies and procedures will adequately identify all process safety, personal may change their scal and regulatory frameworks in response to public safety and environmental risks or that all our operating activities will be pressure on nances, resulting in increased amounts payable to them or conducted in conformance with these systems.
See Safety on page 39. their agencies.
Such events, including a marine incident, or inability to provide safe Such factors could increase the cost of compliance, reduce our profitability environments for our workforce and the public while at our facilities, in certain jurisdictions, limit our opportunities for new access, require us to premises or during transportation, could lead to injuries, loss of life or divest or write-down certain assets or curtail or cease certain operations, or environmental damage.
We could as a result face regulatory action and affect the adequacy of our provisions for pensions, tax, decommissioning, legal liability, including penalties and remediation obligations, increased environmental and legal liabilities.
Potential changes to pension or financial costs and potentially denial of our licence to operate.
Our activities are market regulation could also impact funding requirements of the group.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 49 Following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, there have been cases of additional oversight and more stringent regulation of BP and other companies oil and gas activities in the US and elsewhere, particularly relating to environmental, health and safety controls and oversight of drilling operations, which could result in increased compliance costs.
In addition, we may be subjected to a higher number of citations and level of fines imposed in relation to any alleged breaches of safety or environmental regulations, which could result in increased costs.
Ethical misconduct and non-compliance ethical misconduct or breaches of applicable laws by our businesses or our employees could be damaging to our reputation.
Incidents of ethical misconduct or non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including anti-bribery and corruption and anti-fraud laws, trade restrictions or other sanctions, or non-compliance with the recommendations of the ethics monitor appointed under the terms of the DoJ and EPA settlements, could damage our reputation, result in litigation, regulatory action and penalties.
Treasury and trading activities ineffective management of treasury and trading activities could lead to business disruption, financial loss, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation.
We are subject to operational risk around our treasury and trading activities in financial and commodity markets, some of which are regulated.
Failure to process, manage and monitor a large number of complex transactions across many markets and currencies while complying with all regulatory requirements could hinder profitable trading opportunities.
There is a risk that a single trader or a group of traders could act outside of our delegations and controls, leading to regulatory intervention and resulting in financial loss and potentially damaging our reputation.
Reporting failure to accurately report our data could lead to regulatory action, legal liability and reputational damage.
External reporting of financial and non-financial data, including reserves estimates, relies on the integrity of systems and people.
Failure to report data accurately and in compliance with applicable standards could result in regulatory action, legal liability and damage to our reputation.
For a period of three years after the SEC settlement in December 2012, we are unable to rely on the US safe harbor provisions regarding forward-looking statements, which may expose us to future litigation and liabilities in connection with our public disclosures.
See Legal proceedings on page 228.
The Strategic report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf by David J Jackson, company secretary on 3 March 2015.
50 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014
