STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Principal risks and uncertainties Like all businesses, the Group faces a number of potential risks which, if Ukraine and Iraq remain an accepted risk, although the high percentage not properly controlled, could hinder the successful implementation of its of assets in tax wrappers mitigates the impact of market turbulence on strategy and have a material impact on the long-term performance.
Board believes that a successful risk management framework balances risk and reward.
The Board has responsibility for risk management and The Financial Conduct Authority FCA platform rules as issued in Policy internal control, further details of which can be found in the Corporate Statement PS13 1 were implemented by us as from 1 March 2014 Governance statement.
following a full communication to our clients explaining the rationale and the actual changes in January 2014.
The new rules mean that for Each year we highlight the risk of earnings being impacted by market Platform business we must move away from commission income to volatility or a fall in interest rates.
Markets were less volatile in 2014, explicit platform fees that clients pay directly to us for our services.
over the year the FTSE All-Share index rose by 9.4%.
This helped the Transitional rules apply however, enabling us to continue to earn business to grow the value of clients investments which in turn helped commission on existing platform assets until 5 April 2016 after increase Group revenue.
Interest rates on cash deposits continued to fall which any commissions received will be passed entirely on to the during the year, and in the low interest rate environment we expect to client.
Where we still receive commission the vast majority is now continue to see downward pressure on this revenue stream in the short passed back to our clients in the form of a significantly higher loyalty term.
Furthermore, on 10 June 2014 the Financial Conduct Authority bonus.
FCA issued Policy Statement PS14 9 setting out changes to the client assets sourcebook CASS which restricts the use of term deposits for The risk factors mentioned below do not purport to be exhaustive as client money from 1 July 2014, and this is going to provide a further there may be additional risks that the Group has not yet identified or has significant revenue headwind in the coming year.
Market volatility arising deemed to be immaterial that could have a material adverse effect on from such factors as the Euro crisis or Geo-political events such as the business.
Risk Management Executive Committee and Audit Committee Framework Risk Committee Group Risk Register Process Rank Assess Mitigate Identify Monitor Operational Managers Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 23 Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Industry Risks Fluctuations in the capital markets Focus on recurring revenue streams over the more volatile Fluctuations in capital markets may adversely affect trading activity transaction-based alternative.
and or the value of the Groups assets under administration or High proportion of assets under administration in tax wrappers so management, from which we derive revenues.
clients less likely to withdraw funds and lose tax benefits.
Cash option enables clients to shelter from market volatility.
Changing markets and increased competition Strong market position with pricing power.
The Group operates in a highly competitive environment with Full control over flexible platform.
developing demographic trends and our continued profitability Experienced management team with a strong track record of depends on our ability to respond to these pressures and trends.
innovation and responsiveness to the market.
Client focused with a high level of client satisfaction.
Evolving technology Track record of successful development with a high awareness and The Groups technology needs to remain current if we are to develop sponsorship of the importance of technology at Board level.
our systems to accommodate changing preferences, increased Substantial development and scalability project teams in place.
volumes, new products and the emergence of new industry standards.
IT change management controls including, where appropriate, Risks arising from technology change projects need to be minimised.
oversight by project board and steering committees.
Regulatory Strong compliance culture and culture geared towards FCA focus on The Group may be materially adversely affected as a result of new or consumer outcomes.
revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or Financial strength of the organisation provides comfort should the enforcement of existing laws and regulations emanating from the UK capital resource requirement be increased.
Alternative recurring revenue models are successfully operated by the Group and these are being used to mitigate the reduction in The Group has needed to replace its significant platform commission commission income.
revenue stream following the implementation of the new FCA Platform Competitive prices and service offering have been maintained to Rules.
help ensure business will not be lost to competitors many of whom are in any case faced with the same rule change.
Changes in taxation law The Government has a clear priority to reinvigorate savings in order Changes made to tax legislation could reduce the attractiveness of to plan for an ageing population, which is currently under-provided some of the Groups investment products such as ISAs and SIPPs.
This creates opportunity for SIPP and ISA business.
HMRC has recently confirmed that commission rebates paid to clients remain tax-free in both the ISA and SIPP wrappers.
Recent announcements to potentially permit transfers of Child Trust Funds to Junior ISAs from April 2015, and to raise the limit to 15,000, show positive Government support for ISAs.
Recent Budget announcement of changes to pensions rules provides opportunities for increased income drawdown and other retirement business.
Damage to the Groups reputation Clients educated to improve awareness of potential boiler room and The risk of reputational damage through our own actions or the actions other online scams, and security procedures are communicated to clients.
of unassociated third parties such as copycat websites to fraudulently Ongoing monitoring and response to emerging threats.
target client funds needs to be minimised.
Dedicated Financial Crime and Information Security teams monitor HLs controls.
Operational Risks Errors, breakdowns or security breaches in respect of the Groups High level of resilience built into daily operations.
information, data, software or information technology systems IT performance, scalability and security are deemed top priorities by Serious or prolonged security breaches, cyber-attacks, errors or the Board.
breakdowns in the Groups software or IT systems must be avoided, Large, experienced in-house team of IT professionals, established and IT changes must be carefully controlled to avoid introducing name suppliers and dedicated Information Security Team.
system integrity problems or other business continuity issues.
IT change management controls including, where appropriate, oversight by project board and steering committees.
Business continuity Critical applications and infrastructure mirrored across primary and The risk of disruption to the business as a result of IT or power failure, two secondary sites, and two alternative sites available for staff fire, flood, acts of terrorism, cyber-attacks, relocation problems and relocation should the main headquarters be out of action.
Business Continuity Plan produced in line with best practice methodologies and tested regularly.
24 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Employee actions damaging reputation High level of internal controls including checks on new staff.
The risk of reputational damage e. g. from employee misconduct, failure to Dedicated Financial Crime and Information Security teams.
manage inside information, conflicts of interest, or fraud must be controlled.
Key personnel Succession planning encouraged throughout Group via management Key personnel must be recruited and retained to prevent a material and staff objectives.
adverse effect on the Groups operations and implementation of its Success of the Group should attract high calibre candidates.
A continuous programme of SAYE and share option schemes is in operation to incentivise staff and encourage retention.
Litigation or claims made against the Group High levels of Professional Indemnity Insurance cover.
The Group needs to protect against the risk of litigation and actions Comprehensive internal review procedures for marketing literature.
Reliance on third parties Due diligence forms part of the selection process for key suppliers, Outsourced service providers must meet appropriate standards and ongoing review of key business partners.
to protect the Group from the risk of regulatory sanctions and reputational damage.
Strategic risk Very experienced management team, with a highly successful Management must remain focused on appropriate strategies and track record to date.
Management has demonstrated an excellent implement the Groups strategy effectively.
understanding of the market and continues to monitor this effectively through regular dialogue with clients.
Performance of in-house managed funds HL only manages Fund of Funds to focus on core strength.
Investment performance of the Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager Fund analysis focuses on stock selection skills of manager rather funds needs to remain good relative to the market or in absolute than basic performance analysis.
terms, or the Group may be vulnerable to outflows in those funds and HL Multi-Manager Funds are well diversified at the underlying fund a consequential reduction in revenues.
level as well as by number of funds, so are less vulnerable to sector specific poor performance than more focused funds.
Well established and proven investment process overseen by an internal Investment Committee.
Financial Risks Liquidity Highly cash generative business with low working capital The Group must remain able to meet liabilities as they become due and requirement, and the Group maintains a substantial surplus above be able to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding as necessary.
regulatory and working capital requirements.
Treasury management policy provides for the availability of liquid funds at short notice.
Bank default Only use UK banks where we do not believe the Government would Given the current economic climate and in particular the allow them to fail.
unprecedented problems faced by banks, the Group must protect Deposits spread across several banks, with limits placed on each.
against the risk that a bank could fail.
Regular review and challenge of Treasury Policy by management.
Interest rates The size and diversity of cash balances we have gives us scope Risk of decline in earnings due to a decline in interest rates or to develop alternative cash services which could alleviate margin regulatory changes affecting interest income.
Access to competitive rates due to large value of deposits placed and ability to determine the interest on client balances.
Close interaction with the FCA on all regulatory changes.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 25
