Risk profile 1 Risk Page App Unaudited 2 Managing our risk profile Risk profile 111 2 A strong balance sheet remains core to our philosophy.
Managing risk 112 Our portfolios continue to be aligned to our risk Risk management framework 112 appetite and strategy.
Risk factors 113 Our risk management framework is supported Risks managed by HSBC 114 by strong forward-looking risk identification.
Risk management processes and procedures 117 Maintaining capital strength and a strong Risk governance 204 liquidity position Risk appetite 205 Our transitional common equity tier 1 capital ratio 2 Top and emerging risks 118 remains strong at 10.9%.
Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk 118 We have sustained our strong liquidity position Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks throughout 2014. to our business model 119 The ratio of customer advances to deposits remains Regulatory commitments and consent orders 120 significantly below 90%.
Risks related to our business operations, governance and internal control systems 122 Strong governance 2 Areas of special interest 124 Robust risk governance and accountability is embedded across the Group.
Financial crime compliance and regulatory compliance 124 The Board, advised by the Group Risk Committee, Private Bank 124 approves our risk appetite.
Regulatory stress tests 125 Our global risk operating model supports adherence to globally consistent standards and risk management Oil and gas prices 126 policies across the Group.
Russia 126 Eurozone 126 Our top and emerging risks 4 Credit risk 127 206 Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk.
4 Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks Liquidity and funding 163 215 to our business model.
4 Market risk 175 221 Risks related to our business operations, governance 2 Operational risk 186 228 and internal control systems.
Compliance risk 189 229 Legal risk 229 Global security and fraud risk 230 Systems risk 231 Vendor risk management 231 3 Risk management of insurance operations 190 231 2 Other material risks 199 Reputational risk 199 235 Fiduciary risk 200 235 Pension risk 200 236 Sustainability risk 201 237 1 Appendix to Risk risk policies and practices.
For details of HSBCs policies and practices regarding risk management and governance see the Appendix to Risk on page 204.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 111 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Managing risk Three lines of defence Managing risk We use a three lines of defence model in the Unaudited management of risk.
As a provider of banking and financial services, First line every employee is responsible for the risks we actively manage risk as a core part of our day-to-day activities.
that form part of their day to day jobs.
The first line of defence ensures that all key risks within their Risk management framework operations are identified, mitigated and monitored by appropriate internal controls within an overall control Our risk management framework, which is employed at environment.
all levels of the organisation, is set out on page 24.
The key elements are discussed below.
Second line global functions such as Risk, Finance and Human Resources form the second line of defence.
The Groups Risk Appetite Statement is a key component They are responsible for providing assurance, challenge in our management of risk and is described on page 24. and oversight of the activities conducted by the first Risk governance framework line.
Robust risk governance and accountability are Third line Internal Audit forms the third line of embedded throughout the Group through an established defence, providing independent assurance to senior framework that ensures appropriate oversight of and management and the Board over the first and second accountability for the effective management of risk at lines of defence.
all levels of the organisation and across all risk types.
For details of our operational risk management framework, Adherence to consistent standards and risk management see page 186. policies is required across HSBC by our Global Standards and our Global Risk operating model.
People The Board has ultimate responsibility for approving All employees are required to identify, assess and HSBCs risk appetite and the effective management of manage risk within the scope of their assigned risk.
responsibilities and, as such, they are critical to the effectiveness of the three lines of defence.
Personal The Group Risk Committee advises the Board on accountability for Global Standards is reinforced by risk appetite and its alignment with strategy, risk HSBC Values.
governance and internal controls and high-level risk related matters.
Clear and consistent employee communication on risk conveys strategic messages and sets the tone from The Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee senior leadership.
A suite of mandatory training on reports to the Board on matters relating to financial critical risk and compliance topics is deployed to embed crime and financial system abuse and provides a skills and understanding and strengthen the risk culture forward-looking perspective on financial crime risk.
It reinforces the attitude to risk in the The Conduct & Values Committee was established in behaviour expected of employees, as described in our January 2014 to oversee the design and application of risk policies.
The training is updated regularly, describing HSBCs policies, procedures and standards, to ensure technical aspects of the various risks assumed by the that we conduct business responsibly and consistently Group and how they should be managed effectively.
adhere to HSBC Values and to advise the Board Staff are supported in their roles by a disclosure line accordingly.
which enables them to raise concerns confidentially see page 20.
Executive accountability for the ongoing monitoring, assessment and management of the risk environment Our risk culture is reinforced by our approach to and the effectiveness of our risk management policies remuneration.
Individual awards, including those for resides with the Risk Management Meeting of the executives, are based on compliance with HSBC Values GMB.
Day-to-day risk management activities are and the achievement of financial and non-financial the responsibility of senior managers of individual objectives which are aligned to our risk appetite and businesses, supported by global functions as described global strategy.
under Three lines of defence below.
For further information on risk and remuneration, see the Report The executive and non-executive risk governance of the Group Remuneration Committee on page 300. structures and their interactions are set out on page 204, Independent Risk function with similar arrangements in place for major operating subsidiaries.
Global Risk, headed by the Group Chief Risk Officer, is responsible for enterprise-wide risk oversight including The report of the Group Risk Committee is on page 280.
The the establishment of global policy, the monitoring of Report of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee is on page 282.
The report of the Conduct & Values Committee is on risk profiles and forward-looking risk identification page 286. and management.
Global Risk also has functional responsibility for risk management in support of HSBCs global businesses and regions through an integrated network of Risk sub-functions which are independent HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 112 from the sales and trading functions of our businesses.
2009, as amended, in certain significant stress This independence ensures the necessary balance in situations.
Structural separation of banking and trading activities We run Global Risk like a business, ensuring that the proposed or enacted in a number of jurisdictions could function is dynamic and responsive to the needs of its have a material adverse effect on our operations and stakeholders.
We are subject to tax-related risks in the countries Risks faced by HSBC in which we operate which could have a material All of our activities involve, to varying degrees, the adverse effect on our operating results.
analysis, evaluation, acceptance and management Risks related to our business, business of risks or combinations of risks.
operations, governance and internal control Risk factors systems We have identified a comprehensive suite of risk factors The delivery of our strategic priorities is subject to which covers the broad range of risks our businesses are execution risk.
We may not achieve all the expected benefits of our A number of the risk factors have the potential to affect strategic initiatives.
the results of our operations or financial condition, but We operate in markets that are highly competitive.
may not necessarily be deemed as top or emerging risks.
Our risk management measures may not be successful.
However, they inform the ongoing assessment of our top and emerging risks which may result in our risk appetite Operational risks are inherent in our business.
The risk factors are: Our operations are subject to the threat of fraudulent activity.
Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk Our operations are subject to disruption from the Current economic and market conditions may external environment.
Our operations utilise third-party suppliers and service We are subject to political and economic risks in the providers.
countries in which we operate, including the risk of Our operations are highly dependent on our government intervention.
We may suffer adverse effects as a result of the We may not be able to meet regulatory requests for renewed economic and sovereign debt tensions in the data.
Our operations have inherent reputational risk.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our results.
We may suffer losses due to employee misconduct.
We rely on recruiting, retaining and developing Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to appropriate senior management and skilled personnel.
our business model Our financial statements are based in part on Failure to implement our obligations under the judgements, estimates and assumptions which are deferred prosecution agreements could have a subject to uncertainty.
material adverse effect on our results and operations.
HSBC could incur losses or be required to hold Failure to comply with certain regulatory requirements additional capital as a result of model limitations or would have a material adverse effect on our results and failure.
Third parties may use us as a conduit for illegal Failure to meet the requirements of regulatory stress activities without our knowledge, which could have tests could have a material adverse effect on our a material adverse effect on us.
capital position, operations, results and future prospects.
We have significant exposure to counterparty risk.
Market fluctuations may reduce our income or the We are subject to a number of legal and regulatory value of our portfolios.
actions and investigations, the outcomes of which are inherently difficult to predict, but unfavourable Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our outcomes could have a material adverse effect on businesses.
our operating results and brand.
Any reduction in the credit rating assigned to HSBC Unfavourable legislative or regulatory developments, Holdings, any subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings or any or changes in the policy of regulators or governments, of their respective debt securities could increase the could have a material adverse effect on our operations, cost or decrease the availability of our funding and financial condition and prospects.
adversely affect our liquidity position and interest margins.
HSBC Holdings and its UK subsidiaries may become subject to stabilisation provisions under the Bank Act HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 113 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Risks managed by HSBC obligations with respect to its debt securities, and Risks concerning borrower credit quality are inherent to provide profits for payment of future dividends in our businesses.
Our insurance business is subject to risks relating to insurance claim rates and changes in insurance We may be required to make substantial customer behaviour.
contributions to our pension plans.
HSBC Holdings is a holding company and, as a result, Risks managed by HSBC is dependent on loan payments and dividends from The principal risks associated with our banking and its subsidiaries to meet its obligations, including insurance manufacturing operations are described in the tables below.
Description of risks banking operations Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Credit risk page 127 The risk of financial loss if a Credit risk arises principally Credit risk is: customer or counterparty fails from direct lending, trade measured as the amount which could be lost if a customer or to meet an obligation under a finance and leasing business, counterparty fails to make repayments.
In the case of derivatives, contract.
but also from certain other the measurement of exposure takes into account the current markproducts such as guarantees to-market value to HSBC of the contract and the expected potential and derivatives.
change in that value over time caused by movements in market rates: monitored within limits approved by individuals within a framework of delegated authorities.
These limits represent the peak exposure or loss to which HSBC could be subjected should the customer or counterparty fail to perform its contractual obligations: and managed through a robust risk control framework which outlines clear and consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk managers.
Liquidity and funding risk page 163 The risk that we do not have Liquidity risk arises from Liquidity and funding risk is: sufficient financial resources mismatches in the timing of measured using internal metrics including stressed operational cash to meet our obligations as cash flows.
flow projections, coverage ratios and advances to core funding they fall due or that we can Funding risk arises when the ratios: only do so at excessive cost.
liquidity needed to fund monitored against the Groups liquidity and funding risk framework illiquid asset positions cannot and overseen by regional Asset and Liability Management be obtained at the expected Committees ALCOs, Group ALCO and the Risk Management terms and when required.
Meeting: and managed on a stand-alone basis with no reliance on any Group entity unless pre-committed or central bank unless this represents routine established business as usual market practice.
Market risk page 175 The risk that movements in Exposure to market risk is Market risk is: market factors, including separated into two portfolios: measured in terms of value at risk, which is used to estimate foreign exchange rates and trading portfolios comprise potential losses on risk positions as a result of movements in market commodity prices, interest positions arising from rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of rates, credit spreads and market-making and confidence, augmented with stress testing to evaluate the potential equity prices, will reduce our warehousing of customerimpact on portfolio values of more extreme, though plausible, events income or the value of our derived positions.
or movements in a set of financial variables: portfolios.
non-trading portfolios monitored using measures including the sensitivity of net interest comprise positions that income and the sensitivity of structural foreign exchange which are primarily arise from the applied to the market risk positions within each risk type: and interest rate management managed using risk limits approved by the GMB for HSBC Holdings of our retail and and our various global businesses.
These units are allocated across commercial banking assets business lines and to the Groups legal entities.
and liabilities, financial investments designated as available for sale and held to maturity, and exposures arising from our insurance operations page 198.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 114 Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Operational risk page 186 The risk of loss resulting from Operational risk arises from Operational risk is: inadequate or failed internal day to day operations or measured using both the top risk analysis process and the risk processes, people and systems external events, and is and control assessment process, which assess the level of risk and or from external events, relevant to every aspect of effectiveness of controls: including legal risk along with our business.
monitored using key indicators and other internal control activities: accounting, tax, security and Compliance risk and fiduciary and fraud, people, systems, risk are discussed below.
managed primarily by global business and functional managers.
They projects, operations and Other operational risks are organisational change risk.
identify and assess risks, implement controls to manage them and covered in the Appendix to monitor the effectiveness of these controls utilising the operational Risk page 204. risk management framework.
Global Operational Risk is responsible for the framework and for overseeing the management of operational risks within businesses and functions.
Compliance risk page 189 The risk that we fail to Compliance risk is part of Compliance risk is: observe the letter and spirit of operational risk, and arises measured by reference to identified metrics, incident assessments all relevant laws, codes, rules, from rules, regulations, other whether affecting HSBC or the wider industry, regulatory feedback regulations and standards of standards and Group policies, and the judgement and assessment of the managers of our global good market practice, and including those relating to businesses and functions: incur fines and penalties and anti-money laundering, antimonitored against our compliance risk assessments and metrics, the suffer damage to our business bribery and corruption, results of the monitoring and control activities of the second line of as a consequence.
counter-terrorist and defence functions, including the Financial Crime Compliance and proliferation financing, Regulatory Compliance functions, and the results of internal sanctions compliance and and external audits and regulatory inspections: and conduct of business.
managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies The DPA is discussed on and procedures, training employees in them, and monitoring activity page 120 and the Monitor on to assure their observance.
Proactive risk control and or remediation page 27. work is undertaken where required.
Other material risks Reputational risk page 199 The risk that illegal, unethical Reputational risk is the risk of Reputational risk is: or inappropriate behaviour failure to meet stakeholder measured by reference to our reputation as indicated by our by the Group itself, members expectations as a result of any dealings with all relevant stakeholders, including media, regulators, of staff or clients or event, behaviour, action or customers and employees: representatives of the inaction, either by HSBC itself, monitored through a reputational risk management framework, Group will damage HSBCs its employees or those with taking into account the results of the compliance risk monitoring reputation, leading potentially whom it is associated, that activity outlined above: and to a loss of business, fines or may cause stakeholders to penalties.
form a negative view of HSBC.
managed by every member of staff and is covered by a number of policies and guidelines.
There is a clear structure of committees and individuals charged with mitigating reputational risk, including the Group Reputational Risk Policy Committee and regional business equivalents.
Fiduciary risk page 200 The risk of breaching our Fiduciary risk is part of Fiduciary risk is: fiduciary duties, defined as operational risk, and arises measured by each designated business monitoring against their any duty where HSBC holds, from our business activities own risk appetite statements and by the operational risk and manages, oversees or has where we act in a fiduciary control assessment process, which assesses the level of risk and responsibilities for assets for capacity designated the effectiveness of the key controls: a third party that involves businesses as Trustee, monitored through a combination of testing, key indicators and a legal and or regulatory Investment Manager or other metrics such as client and regulatory feedback: and duty to act with the highest as mandated by law or standard of care and with regulation.
managed within the designated businesses via established utmost good faith.
governance frameworks, and comprehensive policies, procedures and training programmes.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 115 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Risks managed by HSBC Description of risks banking operations continued Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Pension risk page 236 The risk that contributions Pension risk arises from Pension risk is: from Group companies and investments delivering an measured in terms of the schemes ability to generate sufficient members fail to generate inadequate return, economic funds to meet the cost of their accrued benefits: sufficient funds to meet the conditions leading to monitored through the specific risk appetite that has been cost of accruing benefits for corporate failures, adverse developed at both Group and regional levels: and the future service of active changes in interest rates or managed locally through the appropriate pension risk governance members, and the risk that inflation, or members living structure and globally through the Risk Management Meeting.
the performance of assets held longer than expected in pension funds is insufficient longevity risk.
Pension risk to cover existing pension includes operational risks liabilities.
Sustainability risk page 237 The risk that the Sustainability risk arises from Sustainability risk is: environmental and social the provision of financial measured by assessing the potential sustainability effect of a effects of providing financial services to companies or customers activities and assigning a Sustainability Risk Rating to services outweigh the projects which run counter all high risk transactions: economic benefits.
to the needs of sustainable monitored quarterly by the Risk Management Meeting and monthly development.
by Group Sustainability Risk management: and managed using sustainability risk policies covering project finance lending and sector-based sustainability polices for sectors with high environmental or social impacts.
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are separately operations are also subject to the operational risks and regulated from our banking operations.
Risks in the the other material risks presented above in relation to insurance entities are managed using methodologies and the banking operations, and these are covered by the processes appropriate to insurance activities, but remain Groups risk management processes.
subject to oversight at Group level.
Our insurance Description of risks insurance manufacturing operations Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Financial risks page 194 Our ability to effectively match Exposure to financial risks Financial risks are: the liabilities arising under arises from: measured separately for each type of risk: insurance contracts with the market risk of changes in market risk is measured in terms of exposure to fluctuations in asset portfolios that back the fair values of financial key financial variables: them are contingent on the assets or their future cash credit risk is measured as the amount which could be lost if a management of financial risks flows from fluctuations in customer or counterparty fails to make repayments: and such as market, credit and variables such as interest liquidity risks, and the extent liquidity risk is measured using internal metrics including stressed rates, foreign exchange to which these risks are borne rates and equity prices: operational cash flow projections.
credit risk and the monitored within limits approved by individuals within a framework Liabilities to policyholders potential for financial loss of delegated authorities: and under unit-linked contracts following the default of managed through a robust risk control framework which outlines move in line with the value of third parties in meeting clear and consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk the underlying assets, and as their obligations: and managers.
Subsidiaries manufacturing products with guarantees are such the policyholder bears liquidity risk of entities usually exposed to falls in market interest rates and equity prices to the majority of the financial not being able to make the extent that the market exposure cannot be managed by utilising risks.
payments to policyholders any discretionary participation or bonus features within the policy Contracts with DPF share the as they fall due as there contracts they issue.
performance of the underlying are insufficient assets that assets between policyholders can be realised as cash.
and the shareholder in line with the type of contract and the specific contract terms.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 116 Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Insurance risk page 198 The risk that, over time, The cost of claims and Insurance risk is: the cost of acquiring and benefits can be influenced measured in terms of life insurance liabilities: administering a contract, by many factors, including monitored by the RBWM Risk Management Committee, which claims and benefits may mortality and morbidity checks the risk profile of the insurance operations against a exceed the aggregate amount experience, lapse and risk appetite for insurance business agreed by the GMB: and of premiums received and surrender rates and, if the managed both centrally and locally using product design, investment income.
policy has a savings element, underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling procedures.
the performance of the assets held to support the liabilities.
The Stress Testing Management Board, which is chaired Risk management processes and by the Group Finance Director, is responsible for stress procedures testing strategy and stewardship.
Stress testing models In addition to risk appetite, the following processes are are approved through the Groups Model Oversight integral to risk management at HSBC: Committee framework.
Updates on stress testing are risk identification through our top and emerging risk provided at each meeting of the Risk Management process: Meeting of the GMB.
The Group Risk Committee is informed and consulted, and approves, as appropriate.
mapping our risk profile: and The development of macroeconomic scenarios is a stress testing and scenario analysis.
critical part of the process.
Potential scenarios are defined and generated by an expert panel comprising Risk identification economic experts from various global teams including We identify and monitor risks continuously.
This process, Risk and Finance.
Variables and assumptions which is informed by analysis of our risk factors and the underpinning the scenarios, including economic results of our stress testing programme, gives rise to indicators such as yield curves, exchange rates and the classification of certain key risks as top or emerging.
volatilities, are expanded and enriched by internal and Changes in our assessment of top and emerging risks external teams.
Once approved by the governing may result in adjustments to our business strategy and, committee, they are circulated to the regional and global potentially, our risk appetite.
business stress testing teams along with instructions for Our current top and emerging risks are discussed below.
Scenarios are translated into financial impacts, such as Mapping our risk profile on our forecast profitability and RWAs, using a suite of Risks are assumed by our global businesses in stress testing models and methodologies.
Models are accordance with their risk appetite and are managed at subject to independent model review and go through a Group, global business and regional levels.
All risks are process of validation and approval.
Model overlays may recorded and monitored through our risk map process, be considered where necessary.
which describes our risk profile by risk type in the Stress testing results are subject to a review and different regions and global businesses.
challenge process at regional and Group levels and In addition to our principal banking and insurance risks, action plans are developed to mitigate identified risks.
the risk map process identifies and monitors risks such The extent to which these action plans would be as model, financial management, capital, Islamic finance implemented in the event of particular scenarios and strategic risks.
These risks are regularly assessed occurring depends on senior managements evaluation through our risk appetite framework, stress tested and of the risks and their potential consequences, taking into considered for classification as top and emerging risks.
In addition to the Group-wide risk scenarios, each major Stress testing HSBC subsidiary conducts regular macroeconomic and We conduct stress testing scenarios across the Group on event-driven scenario analyses specific to their region.
both an enterprise-wide basis and at a major subsidiary They may also participate in local regulatory stress level, reflecting our business strategy and its resultant testing programmes.
Our stress testing and scenario analysis programme examines the sensitivities of our capital plans Stress testing is applied to risks such as market risk, and unplanned demand for regulatory capital under a liquidity and funding risk and credit risk to evaluate the number of scenarios and ensures that top and emerging potential effect of stress scenarios on portfolio values, risks are appropriately considered.
These scenarios structural long-term funding positions, income or capital.
include, but are not limited to, adverse macroeconomic Reverse stress testing is run annually on both Group and events, failures at country, sector and counterparty subsidiary entity bases.
This stress test is conducted by levels, geopolitical occurrences and a variety of assuming the business model is non-viable and working projected major operational risk events.
backwards to identify a range of occurrences that could HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 117 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Top and emerging risks bring that event about.
Non-viability might occur before Emerging markets, particularly those with domestic the banks capital is depleted, and could result from a vulnerabilities, remain exposed to monetary policy variety of events.
These include idiosyncratic or systemic normalisation in the US and to greater risk aversion.
events or combinations thereof, and or could imply While high by international standards, mainland Chinas failure of the Groups holding company or one of its GDP growth in 2014 was the lowest in over two decades major subsidiaries.
They would not necessarily mean and recent forecasts indicate a lower trajectory than in the simultaneous failure of all the major subsidiaries.
Years of excessive investment, notably in Reverse stress testing is used to strengthen our the property market, has stoked potential financial resilience by helping to inform early-warning triggers, bubbles, requiring the implementation of a new management actions and contingency plans designed to economic growth model.
mitigate the potential stresses and vulnerabilities which Potential impact on HSBC the Group might face.
HSBCs results could be adversely affected by a HSBC participated in regulatory stress testing prolonged period of low or negative interest rates, programmes in a number of jurisdictions during 2014, low inflation levels or deflation and or low oil prices.
We earn a significant proportion of our profits from our operations in emerging markets.
Our results could Top and emerging be adversely affected by a prolonged slowdown in risks T E emerging market growth.
Unaudited Global trade and capital flows may contract as a Our approach to identifying and monitoring top and result of weaker economic growth, the introduction emerging risks is described on page 22. of protectionist measures, the emergence of During 2014, senior management paid particular geopolitical risks or increasing redenomination risk.
attention to a number of top and emerging risks.
Our This may curtail our profitability.
current top and emerging risks are as follows: Mitigating actions Macroeconomic and geopolitical risks We closely monitor economic developments in key markets and sectors with the aim of ensuring trends Economic outlook and government E are identified, the implications for specific customers, intervention customer segments or portfolios are assessed and E Increased geopolitical risk appropriate mitigating action, which may include revising key risk appetite metrics and limits, is taken Economic outlook and government as circumstances evolve.
E intervention We use stress testing, both internal and regulatory programmes, to assess the effect of changes in Economic growth in both developed and emerging economic conditions on our operations.
Regulatory market countries remained weak in 2014. stress tests are discussed on page 124.
Oil and commodity prices have declined significantly since the middle of 2014 as a result of increasing global Increased geopolitical risk E demand-supply imbalances.
The precipitous fall in Our operations are exposed to risks arising from political energy prices over such a short span of time changes instability and civil unrest in many parts of the world, both the nature and the distribution of risks.
It sharpens which may have a wider effect on regional stability and fiscal and financing challenges for energy exporters, regional and global economies.
and although it brings benefits for oil importers, it also accentuates deflationary risks among some of these Geopolitical risk increased during 2014.
Military escalation particularly in the eurozone.
In addition, the prospect and or civil war remain a possibility in Ukraine, while of low oil prices for a prolonged period may reduce sanctions targeting the Russian government, institutions investment in exploration and thus poses the danger and individuals, together with falling oil prices, have had of significantly reduced future supply.
an adverse effect on the Russian economy.
The economic recovery in the eurozone is still at risk.
In the Middle East, the civil war in Syria has been Deflationary pressures persist as a result of low oil prices complicated by the seizure of parts of Iraq and Syria by and despite much looser monetary policy.
Acceleration Islamic State, a terrorist group.
Elsewhere in the region, in the structural reform agenda could also accentuate chaos in Libya, ongoing tensions between Israel and deflationary pressures in the short-term.
The eurozone Palestine and fraught negotiations over Irans nuclear is discussed further in Areas of special interest on programme are combining to increase risks to stability.
Japan fell into a technical recession in the In Asia, there was no easing in the maritime sovereignty third quarter of 2014 and policy responses may not be disputes involving mainland China and its neighbours, sufficient to support a recovery in economic activity.
while tensions remain high over the line of control Resilience in US economic activity represents an upside between India and Pakistan, raising concerns over a to the world economy.
possible wider conflict between the two nuclear-armed neighbours.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 118 Civil unrest and demonstrations in a number of countries Regulatory developments affecting our T during 2014, including Turkey and Hong Kong, have also business model and Group profitability contributed to geopolitical risk as governments took Regulatory changes affect our activities, both of the measures to contain them.
Group as a whole and of some or all of our principal A number of emerging and developed markets will hold subsidiaries.
These changes include: elections in 2015, which could lead to further market the UKs Financial Services Banking Reform Act 2013 volatility.
In addition, a sustained period of low oil prices which requires the ring-fencing of our UK retail may affect stability in countries that rely heavily on oil banking activities from wholesale banking, together production as a significant source of revenue.
with the structural separation of other activities as Potential impact on HSBC envisaged in the legislation and rules adopted in the US including the Volcker Rule adopted in December Our results are subject to the risk of loss from 2013 under the Dodd-Frank Act, measures adopted unfavourable political developments, currency in France restricting certain trading activities and fluctuations, social instability and changes in potential further changes under European government policies on matters such as Commission proposals for structural measures for expropriation, authorisations, international larger EU banks: ownership, interest-rate caps, foreign exchange transferability and tax in the jurisdictions in which the implementation of extra-territorial laws, including we operate.
the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA and other related initiatives to share tax information Actual conflict could expose our staff to physical risk such as those being pursued by the OECD more and or result in physical damage to our assets.
generally: Mitigating actions changes in the regime for the operation of capital We continuously monitor the geopolitical outlook, markets, notably mandatory central clearing of over in particular in countries where we have material the counter OTC derivatives, including under the exposures and or a physical presence.
Dodd-Frank Act and the EUs European Market Infrastructure Regulation EMIR : Our internal credit risk rating of sovereign counterparties takes these factors into account and changes arising from the increasing focus by regulators on how institutions conduct business, drives our appetite for conducting business in those particularly with regard to the delivery of fair countries.
Where necessary, we adjust our country outcomes for customers and orderly transparent limits and exposures to reflect our risk appetite and markets, promoting effective competition in the mitigate risks as appropriate.
interests of consumers including the outcome of the Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks current investigation by the UK Competition and to our business model Markets Authority on the personal current account and SME banking market in the UK and recent Regulatory developments affecting our T indications of further FCA focus on UK wholesale business model and Group profitability markets : Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions, T the outcome of the Fair and Effective Financial commitments and consent orders and Markets Review being undertaken by the Bank of requirements relating to conduct of business England which will consider changes in the operation and financial crime negatively affecting our of wholesale financial markets in the UK: results and brand restrictions on the structure of remuneration imposed Dispute risk T under CRD IV and UK regulations and increasing requirements to detail management accountability Financial service providers face increasingly stringent within the Group to meet the requirements of the and costly regulatory and supervisory requirements, Senior Managers Regime in the UK including the often involving the provision of large amounts of data, continued focus in the UK on the progress being particularly in the areas of capital and liquidity made in implementing wider recommendations management, conduct of business, operational made by the Parliamentary Commission on Banking structures and the integrity of financial services delivery.
Standards on matters relating to institutional Increased government intervention and control over culture, employee conduct and obligations more financial institutions both on a sector-wide basis and generally such as whistleblowing etc.
: individually, together with measures to reduce systemic the implementation of CRD IV, notably the UK risk, may significantly alter the competitive landscape application of the capital buffer framework and its locally, regionally and or globally for some or all of the interaction with Pillar 2: Groups businesses.
These measures may be introduced as formal requirements in a supra-equivalent manner the effect of proposals for the UK Financial Policy and to differing timetables by different regulatory Committee to be given more powers to impose regimes.
leverage constraints on UK banks: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 119 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Top and emerging risks considered properly and can be implemented in the proposals from the Financial Stability Board an effective manner.
which are subject to consultation and translation into national regulations but which would require We have developed and are implementing a global G-SIBs to hold minimum levels of capital and approach to the management of conduct and have subordinated debt as total loss absorbing capacity established a Conduct & Values Committee as a subTLAC : committee of the Board to oversee the management of conduct across the Group.
requirements flowing from arrangements for the resolution strategy of the Group and its individual We have enhanced our governance around central operating entities, which may have different effects clearing counterparties and appointed specialists to in different countries: manage the associated liquidity and collateral risks.
the continuing stress tests by supervisory authorities We continue to enhance and strengthen governance and the implication for capital requirements and and resourcing more generally around regulatory capital transfers within the Group: change management and the implementation of required measures to actively address this ongoing the tightening by regulators in a number of countries and significant agenda of regulatory change.
of credit controls on mortgage lending and unsecured portfolios: and Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions, T the continued risk of further changes to regulation commitments and consent orders and relating to taxes affecting financial service providers, requirements relating to conduct of business including financial transaction taxes.
and financial crime negatively affecting our results and brand Potential impact on HSBC Financial service providers are at risk of regulatory Proposed changes in and or the implementation of sanctions or fines related to conduct of business regulations including mandatory central clearing of and financial crime.
The incidence of regulatory OTC derivatives, EMIR, ring-fencing and similar proceedings against financial service firms is increasing, requirements, the Volcker Rule, recovery with a consequent increase also in civil litigation arising and resolution plans, FATCA and findings from from or relating to issues which are subject to regulatory competition orientated enquiries and investigations investigation, sanction or fine.
In addition, criminal may affect the manner in which we conduct our prosecutions of financial institutions for, among other activities and how the Group is structured.
alleged conduct, breaches of AML and sanctions Requirements for higher levels of capital or TLAC may regulations, antitrust violations, market manipulation, increase the funding costs for the Group and reduce aiding and abetting tax evasion, and providing unlicensed our return on equity.
cross-border banking services, have become more commonplace and may increase in frequency due to Mandatory central clearing of OTC derivatives also increased media attention and higher expectations from brings new risks to HSBC in our role as a clearing prosecutors and the public.
Moreover, financial service member, as we will be required to underwrite losses incurred by central clearing counterparties from the providers may face similar or broader legal proceedings, default of other clearing members and their clients.
investigations or regulatory actions across many Hence central clearing brings with it a new element of jurisdictions as a result of, among other things, increased interconnectedness between clearing members and media attention and higher expectations from regulators clients which we believe may increase rather than and the public.
Any such prosecution or investigation of, or legal proceeding or regulatory action brought against, reduce our exposure to systemic risk.
HSBC or one or more of its subsidiaries could result in Increased regulatory scrutiny of conduct of business substantial fines, penalties and or forfeitures and could including incentive structures, remuneration, have a material adverse effect on our results, business, product governance and sales processes and financial condition, prospects and reputation, including management accountability may affect the industry in the potential loss of key licences, requirement to exit areas such as employee recruitment and retention, certain businesses and withdrawal of funding from product pricing and profitability in both retail and depositors and other stakeholders.
HSBCs businesses may be affected by these developments.
Regulatory commitments and consent orders These measures have the potential to increase our In December 2012, HSBC Holdings, HSBC North America cost of doing business and curtail the types of Holdings Inc. HNAH and HSBC Bank USA, N. A. HSBC business we can carry out, with the consequent Bank USA entered into agreements with US and UK risk of decreased profitability.
authorities regarding past inadequate compliance with AML and sanctions laws.
Among these agreements, HSBC Mitigating actions Holdings and HSBC Bank USA entered into a five-year We are engaged closely with governments and deferred prosecution agreement US DPA with the US regulators in the countries in which we operate Department of Justice DoJ and HSBC Holdings entered to help ensure that the new requirements are HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 120 into a two-year DPA with the New York County District periods specified in them or otherwise as may be Attorney the DANY DPA.
HSBC Holdings also entered extended, could result in supervisory action.
Any such into an undertaking with the FSA the FCA Direction action could have a material adverse effect on the to comply with certain forward-looking obligations consolidated results and operation of HSBC.
with respect to AML and sanctions requirements.
In Mitigating actions addition, HSBC Holdings entered into a cease and desist order with the US FRB with respect to compliance with Steps to address many of the requirements of the US US AML and sanctions requirements.
DPA, the FCA Direction and the GLBA Agreement have either already been taken or are under way in The agreements with the DoJ and the FRB and the FCA consultation with the relevant regulatory agencies.
Direction require us to retain an independent monitor These include simplifying the Groups control to evaluate our progress in fully implementing our structure, strengthening the governance structure obligations and produce regular assessments of the with new leadership appointments, revising key effectiveness of our Financial Crime Compliance policies and implementing Global Standards to function.
The Monitor is discussed on page 27. detect, deter and protect against financial crime see HSBC has fulfilled all of the requirements imposed by the page 26.
In addition, we have substantially increased DANY DPA, which expired by its terms at the end of the spending and staffing in the Financial Crime two-year period of that agreement in December 2014.
Compliance and Regulatory Compliance functions While we still have significant work to do to build and in the past few years.
improve our AML and sanctions compliance programme, During 2014, we approved a new global strategy for and our DPA with the DoJ and other settlement transaction monitoring.
Globally standardised AML agreements remain in place, the expiration of the investigations processes have been developed and DANY DPA is an important milestone.
are being implemented, starting in priority countries.
HSBC Bank USA is also subject to an agreement entered Conduct of business into with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCC in December 2012, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Regulators in the UK and other countries have continued GLBA Agreement and other consent orders.
to increase their focus on conduct matters relating to fair outcomes for customers and orderly transparent Potential impact on HSBC markets including, for example, attention to sales It is difficult to predict the outcome of the regulatory processes and incentives, product and investment proceedings involving our businesses.
Unfavourable suitability, product governance, employee activities outcomes may have a material adverse effect on and accountabilities as well as the risks of market abuse our reputation, brand and results, including loss in relation to benchmark, index, other rate setting of business and withdrawal of funding.
processes, wider trading activities and more general conduct of business concerns.
Our significant involvement in facilitating In the UK, the FCA is making increasing use of existing international capital flows and trade exposes the and new powers of intervention and enforcement, Group to the risk of financial crime or inadvertently including powers to consider past business undertaken breaching restrictions and sanctions imposed by the and implement customer compensation and redress US Office of Foreign Assets Control and other schemes or other, potentially significant, remedial work.
The FCA is also now regulating areas of activity not Breach of the US DPA at any time during its term may previously regulated by them, such as consumer credit, allow the DoJ to prosecute HSBC Holdings or HSBC and considering competition issues in the markets they Bank USA in relation to the matters which are the regulate.
Additionally, the FCA and other regulators subject of the US DPA.
increasingly take actions in response to customer The design and execution of AML and sanctions complaints or where they see poor customer outcomes remediation plans is complex and requires major and or market abuses, either specific to an institution or investments in people, systems and other more generally in relation to a particular product.
This complexity creates significant have been examples of this approach by regulators in the execution risk, which could impact our ability to context of the possible mis-selling of PPI, of interest rate effectively manage financial crime risk and remedy hedging products for SMEs and of wealth management AML and sanctions compliance deficiencies in a timely products.
This could, in turn, impact HSBCs ability to The Group also remains subject to a number of other satisfy the Monitor or comply with the terms of the regulatory proceedings including investigations and US DPA, the FCA Direction, or the FRB Cease and reviews by various national regulatory, competition Desist Order, and may require HSBC to take additional and enforcement authorities relating to certain past remedial measures in the future.
submissions made by panel banks and the process for Failure to comply with the requirements of consent making submissions in connection with the setting orders or the GLBA Agreement within the time of Libor and other interbank offered and benchmark HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 121 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Top and emerging risks interest rates.
There are also ongoing investigations into Risks related to our business operations, foreign exchange, precious metals and credit default governance and internal control systems swap related activities.
Details of these investigations can be found in Note 40 on the Financial Statements.
T Heightened execution risk People risk T Potential impact on HSBC Internet crime and fraud T HSBC may face regulatory censure or sanctions including fines and or be exposed to legal T Information security risk proceedings and litigation.
Data management T Regulators in the UK and other countries may identify Model risk future industry-wide mis-selling, market conduct or T other issues that could affect the Group.
This may E Third party risk management lead from time to time to significant direct costs or liabilities and or changes in the practices of such T Heightened execution risk businesses.
Also, decisions taken by the Financial Ombudsman Service in the UK or similar overseas The financial services industry is currently facing an bodies could, if applied to a wider class or grouping unprecedented period of scrutiny.
Regulatory requests, of customers, have a material adverse effect on the legal matters and business initiatives all require a operating results, financial condition and prospects of significant amount of time and resources to implement.
The magnitude and complexity of projects within HSBC required to meet these demands has resulted Mitigating actions in heightened execution risk.
There also remains Programmes to enhance the management of conduct heightened risk around the execution of a number of business are progressing in all global businesses of disposals across the Group in line with our strategy.
Potential impact on HSBC Performance management arrangements for These factors may affect the successful delivery of managers and staff are being reviewed, focusing on our strategic priorities.
reward linked to values-based behaviour and good conduct.
The potential risks of disposals include regulatory breaches, industrial action, loss of key personnel Enhancements to surveillance capabilities and and interruption to systems and processes during benchmark rate setting processes are ongoing and business transformation.
They can have both financial HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries are cooperating and reputational implications.
fully with all regulatory investigations and reviews.
Mitigating actions Dispute risk T We have strengthened our prioritisation and HSBC is party to legal proceedings and regulatory governance processes for significant projects and matters in a number of jurisdictions arising out of its have invested in our project implementation and IT normal business operations.
Further details are provided capabilities.
in Note 40 on the Financial Statements.
Risks related to disposals are carefully assessed and Potential impact on HSBC monitored and are subject to close management oversight.
Dispute risk gives rise to potential financial loss and significant reputational damage which could T People risk adversely affect customer and investor confidence.
The demands being placed on the human capital of the Mitigating actions Group are unprecedented.
The cumulative workload We continue to focus on identifying emerging arising from a regulatory reform programme that is often regulatory and judicial trends in order to limit extra-territorial and still evolving is hugely consumptive exposure to litigation or regulatory enforcement of human resources, placing increasingly complex and action in the future.
conflicting demands on a workforce where the expertise is in short supply and globally mobile.
We are enhancing our financial crime and regulatory compliance controls and resources.
Potential impact on HSBC Changes in remuneration policy and practice resulting from the new regulations under CRD IV apply globally to all employees of EU headquartered banks.
The key change is the application of a cap on variable pay that can be paid to any material risk-taker based on qualitative and quantitative criteria issued by the HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 122 EBA.
This presents significant challenges for HSBC We have increased our defences through enhanced because a significant number of our material risk monitoring and have implemented additional takers are based outside the EU.
controls, such as two-factor authentication, to reduce the possibility of losses from fraud.
The policy statement issued by the PRA extends the Remuneration Code to require all PRA-authorised Information security risk T firms to apply clawback to vested paid variable remuneration on a Group-wide basis for any material The security of our information and technology risk takers receiving variable pay from 1 January 2015. infrastructure is crucial for maintaining our banking applications and processes while protecting our The introduction by the PRA and FCA in the UK of the customers and the HSBC brand.
HSBC and other Senior Managers and Certification regimes and of multinational organisations continue to be the targets of the related Rules of Conduct the detail of which is cyber-attacks which may disrupt services including the currently subject to consultation are intended to availability of our external facing websites, compromise set clearer expectations of the accountabilities and organisational and customer information or expose behaviour of both senior and more junior employees.
However, there are a number of uncertainties around the precise impact of these regimes at present Potential impact on HSBC including on more senior employees, on non-UK Information security risk gives rise to potential based employees and on non-executive directors.
financial loss and reputational damage which could Organisational changes to support the Groups adversely affect customer and investor confidence.
strategy and or implement regulatory reform Loss of customer data would also trigger regulatory programmes have the potential to lead to increased breaches which could result in fines and penalties staff turnover.
Mitigating actions Mitigating actions The changes in remuneration under the new CRD IV We have invested significantly in addressing this risk regulations has necessitated a review of our through increased training to raise staff awareness of remuneration policy, especially the balance between the requirements, enhanced multi-layered controls fixed and variable pay, to ensure we can remain protecting our information and technical competitive on a total compensation basis and retain infrastructure, heightened monitoring and our key talent.
management of potential cyber-attacks and Risks related to organisational change and disposals continued vulnerability assessment.
are subject to close management oversight.
Data management T We continue to increase the level of specialist resources within Financial Crime Compliance, HSBC must have a clear data strategy to meet the Regulatory Compliance and stress testing and to volume, granularity, frequency and scale of regulatory engage with our regulators as they finalise new and other reporting requirements.
As a G-SIB, HSBC is regulations.
also required to comply with the principles for effective risk data aggregation and risk reporting as set out by the Internet crime and fraud T Basel Committee on Banking Supervision the Basel Committee in its paper.
HSBC is increasingly exposed to fraudulent and criminal activities as a result of increased usage of internet and Potential impact on HSBC mobile services by customers.
We also face the risk of Ineffective data management could adversely breakdowns in processes or procedures and systems affect our ability to aggregate and report complete, failure or unavailability, and our business is subject to accurate and consistent data to regulators, investors disruption from events that are wholly or partially and senior management on a timely basis.
beyond our control, such as internet crime and acts of terrorism.
Financial institutions that fail to meet their Basel Committee data obligations by the required deadline Potential impact on HSBC may face supervisory measures.
Internet crime could result in financial loss and or Mitigating actions customer data and sensitive information being compromised.
They may also give rise to losses in Since the Data Strategy Board was established in service to customers.
The same threats apply equally 2012, we have set a data strategy for the Group and when we rely on external suppliers or vendors for defined Group-level principles, standards and policies services provided to us and our customers.
to enable consistent data aggregation, reporting and management.
Mitigating actions We continually assess these threats as they evolve and adapt our controls to mitigate them.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 123 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Top and emerging risks Areas of special interest increasing the monitoring and assurance over these A number of key initiatives and projects to implement controls.
our data strategy and work towards meeting our Basel Committee data obligations are in progress.
Areas of special interest Model risk T Unaudited During 2014, we considered a number of HSBC uses models for a range of purposes in managing particular areas because of the effect they may its business, including regulatory and economic capital have on the Group.
Whilst these areas may calculations, stress testing, granting credit, pricing already have been identified in top and emerging and financial reporting.
Model risk is the potential for risks, further details of the actions taken during adverse consequences as a result of decisions based on the year are provided below.
incorrect model outputs and reports or the use of such information for purposes for which it was not designed.
Financial crime compliance and regulatory Model risk could arise from models that are poorly compliance developed, implemented or used, or from the modelled outcome being misunderstood and acted upon In recent years, we have experienced increasing levels of inappropriately by management.
The regulatory compliance risk as regulators and other agencies pursued environment and supervisory concerns over banks investigations into historical activities, and we continued use of internal models to determine regulatory capital to work with them in relation to existing issues.
This has further contribute to model risk.
included the matters giving rise to the DPAs reached with US authorities in relation to investigations regarding Potential impact on HSBC inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and HSBC could incur losses or be required to hold sanctions law, and the related undertaking with the FSA additional capital as a result of model limitations the FCA Direction.
The work of the Monitor, who or failure.
has been appointed to assess our progress against our various obligations is discussed on page 27.
Supervisory concerns over the internal models and We continue to respond to a number of investigations by assumptions used by banks in the calculation of the FCA into the possible mis-selling in the UK of certain regulatory capital have led to the imposition of risk products, including sales of PPI, of interest rate hedging weight and loss given default floors.
Such changes products for SMEs and of wealth management products.
have the potential to increase our capital In addition, we also remain subject to a number of other requirement and or make it more volatile.
regulatory proceedings including investigations and Mitigating actions reviews by various national regulatory, competition and enforcement authorities relating to certain past We aim to mitigate model risk through appropriate submissions made by panel banks and the process for governance over model development, usage and making submissions in connection with the setting validation, together with independent review, of Libor and other interbank offered and benchmark monitoring and feedback.
There are also investigations in progress into activities related to foreign exchange, precious E Third-party risk management metals and credit default swaps.
Details of these We have increased our risk management focus on our investigations and legal proceedings can be found use of third-party service providers, in part in response in Note 40 on the Financial Statements.
to increased scrutiny by global regulators.
This includes It is clear from both our own and wider industry how outsourcing decisions are made, how the key experience that the level of activity among regulators relationships are managed and the consistency of risk and law enforcement agencies in investigating possible management across the range of third parties used.
Risks breaches of regulations has increased, and that the arising from the use of third-party service providers may direct and indirect costs of such breaches can be be less transparent and therefore more challenging to significant.
Coupled with a substantial rise in the volume manage or influence.
of new regulation, much of which has some element of extra-territorial reach, and the geographical spread Potential impact on HSBC of our businesses, we believe that the level of inherent Any deficiency in the management of third-party compliance risk that we face as a Group will continue to service providers could lead to a variety of risks remain high for the foreseeable future.
including business disruption, regulatory failings, loss Further information about the Groups compliance of confidential information and financial crime.
risk management may be found on page 189.
Mitigating actions Private Bank We are enhancing our third-party risk management Past practices at our Swiss private bank and the financial capability in line with guidance issued by the OCC and affairs of some of our Swiss private banking clients have FRB, strengthening controls over third-party use and been subject to recent media coverage.
The media focus has been on historical events that show the standards to HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 124 which we operate today were not universally in place in capital ratio of HSBC was deemed by the PRA to fall our Swiss operations eight years ago.
to a minimum of 8.7%, taking into account approved management mitigating actions.
This was above the Since then, we have fundamentally changed the way target minimum of 4.5%.
HSBC is run and have established much tighter central control around who are our customers.
We have put in The EBA conducted a Europe-wide stress test in the first place tough, world-class financial crime, regulatory half of 2014, administered via the PRA for UK banks.
The compliance and tax transparency standards, enforced by base scenario covered a wide range of risks including a team of over 7,000 compliance staff.
credit, market, securitisation, sovereign and funding risks.
The adverse macroeconomic scenario included GPB, and in particular its Swiss private bank, has country-specific shocks to sovereign bond spreads, undergone a radical transformation.
We have taken short-term interest rates and residential property significant steps over the past several years to prices, together with a decline in world trade, currency implement reforms and exit clients who did not meet depreciation in Central and Eastern Europe and slowstrict new HSBC standards, including those where we had downs or contractions in GDP growth around the world.
concerns in relation to tax compliance.
As a result of this repositioning, HSBCs Swiss private bank has reduced its The EBA disclosed results of the stress test exercise on client base by almost 70% since 2007.
Our stressed CET1 capital ratio was projected to fall to a low point of 8.7% at the end of We are fully committed to the exchange of information 2015, above the EBA minimum threshold of 5.5%.
Our with relevant authorities and are actively pursuing fully-loaded stressed CET1 ratio was projected to be measures that ensure clients are tax transparent, even in 9.3% at the end of 2016, which compared favourably advance of a regulatory or legal requirement to do so.
with other major European banks.
We are also cooperating with relevant authorities investigating these matters.
The PRA and EBA results demonstrate HSBCs continued capital strength.
Regulatory stress tests The ECB conducted its comprehensive assessment in Stress testing is an important tool for regulators to the first half of 2014, which comprised an Asset Quality assess vulnerabilities in the banking sector and in Review and the ECBs stress testing process, the latter individual banks, the results of which could have a using the EBA scenarios.
HSBC France and HSBC Malta significant effect on minimum capital requirements, fell within scope and both passed the exercise, the risk and capital management practices and planned results of which were also published in October 2014. capital actions, including the payment of dividends, The CET1 ratio for HSBC France was projected to fall going forward.
from 12.9% in 2013 to 6.6% by the end of 2016, remaining above the regulatory minimum.
The fall We are subject to regulatory stress testing in many reflected the impact of stress on HSBC Frances business jurisdictions.
These have increased both in frequency model, which includes the Groups euro Rates trading and in the granularity of information required by business, and the effect of ECB credit loss benchmarks supervisors.
They include the programmes of the PRA, on the loan portfolio.
the FRB, the EBA, the ECB, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority HKMA and other regulators.
Assessment by HNAH participates in the Comprehensive Capital Analysis regulators is on both quantitative and qualitative bases, and Review CCAR and Dodd-Frank Stress Testing the latter focusing on portfolio quality, data provision, DFAST programmes of the FRB and HSBC Bank USA stress testing capability, forward-looking capital in the OCCs DFAST programme.
Both made their first management processes and internal management submissions under these programmes on 6 January processes.
On 26 March 2014, the FRB informed HNAH that it objected to the submitted capital plan on qualitative In 2014, the Group took part in the first PRA concurrent grounds and a resubmission of its capital plan was stress test exercise involving major UK banks.
The required by 5 January 2015, together with improvements exercise was run on an enterprise-wide basis and to its stress testing processes.
However, the FRB comprised the EBA base scenario and a stress scenario approved the capital actions included in HNAHs CCAR that predominantly followed the EBA stress scenario submission and HNAH was allowed to proceed with the with an additional overlay of variables reflecting the payment of dividends on the outstanding preferred vulnerabilities facing the UK banking system, including shares and trust preferred securities of HNAH and its significant declines in the value of sterling, residential subsidiaries.
HNAHs stressed CET1 capital ratio was and commercial property prices and bond and equity forecast by the FRB to fall to a minimum of 9.4% under prices, along with a downturn in economic activity and the supervisory severely adverse scenario, above the rising unemployment.
HSBCs submission was made to regulatory minimum ratio of 4.5%.
HNAH made its CCAR the PRA at the end of June 2014.
The Group also 2015 submission, which also served as the required reparticipated in the complementary programme of submission for the CCAR 2014, and HSBC Bank USA made regular data provision to the Bank of England under its DFAST 2015 submission, on 5 January 2015. its Firm Data Submission Framework.
Disclosure by the FRB and HNAH and HSBC Bank USA of The PRA disclosed the results of the 2014 Concurrent the results of the exercises, based on the supervisory Stress Test on 16 December 2014.
The stressed CET1 scenarios published in November 2014, will be made in HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 125 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Areas of special interest Credit risk March 2015.
In addition, the FRB will also provide its Following these reviews, about US$0.5bn of exposures non-objection or objection to HNAHs capital plan and have been identified as being of sufficient concern to the capital actions included within its 2015 CCAR require close management.
Whilst weakening credit is submission.
evident in this population, no new customers were identified as being impaired at this stage.
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation participated in the HKMA stress test exercise in the first Russia half of 2014.
The HKMA stress scenario envisaged a During 2014, tensions have risen between the Russian significant deceleration of growth in mainland China Federation Russia and western countries the West in and a sharper contraction in Hong Kong.
The Wests response to date has been Oil and gas prices to impose sanctions on a selected list of Russian individuals, banks and corporates during the course of Oil and commodity prices have declined significantly 2014.
Monitoring and action in response to the sanctions since the middle of 2014 as a result of increasing global requirements is ongoing and will impose some restrictions demand and supply imbalances and changes in market on HSBCs business in Russia, although the effect on the sentiment.
There is considerable uncertainty regarding Group is not expected to be significant.
Our exposures to the future price levels during 2015 and beyond.
counterparties incorporated or domiciled in Ukraine are Prolonged depressed oil prices will affect countries, not considered material.
industries and individual companies differently: The fourth quarter of 2014 saw significant falls in the Country level: net oil importers are likely to benefit value of the Russian rouble and the price of crude oil, from reduced oil prices.
In advanced economies, this and multiple interest rate rises implemented by Russias is likely to increase consumer disposable income central bank.
The impact of these developments is being while in emerging market countries it is more likely monitored by management and, combined with the to benefit the governments fiscal position.
The sanctions, means the outlook for Russia remains highly impact on oil exporting countries will depend on the uncertain with the economy expected to contract in importance of the oil receipts to fiscal revenues, the 2015. extraction costs and the amount of fiscal reserves that the countries are able to draw upon.
Our exposures to Russia mainly consist of loans and advances.
At 31 December 2014 these amounted to Industry level: the oil and gas industry and supporting US$4bn.
services will be affected, though this will vary In addition to the above, a number of our multinational depending on the relevant sub-sector.
Large clients have indirect exposure to Russia through integrated producers are likely to remain resilient.
majority or minority stakes in Russia-based entities, Within the pure producers sector, the higher via dependency of supply or from reliance on exports.
cost pure producers, such as shale and oil sands The operations and businesses of such clients may be producers, are likely to experience higher levels of negatively affected should the scope and nature of stress.
Similarly, infrastructure and services providers sanctions and other actions be widened or the Russian are likely to come under stress as producers curtail economy deteriorate.
Also, we run operations in capital expenditure.
Industries where oil and gas neighbouring countries where the financial system has represent major costs, such as haulage, transport strong links to the Russian economy.
Management is and shipping, are likely to benefit if prices remain monitoring the quantum and potential severity of such depressed.
The oil and gas sector has been considered a higher risk sector for some time and has been under enhanced Eurozone monitoring and controls with risk appetite and new In recent years the EU has introduced a series of money lending under increased scrutiny.
legislative changes designed to better equip it to deal HSBC has a diversified lending profile to the oil and gas with a financial crisis and to reduce the risks of contagion sector.
Lending in GB&M is concentrated predominately in the event of an EU member country experiencing in upstream activities and with large investment-grade financial difficulties.
The outcome of current global integrated producers.
CMB mainly focuses on negotiations on the terms of the Greek bail out is highly lending to service companies and pure producers.
The debt may be rescheduled or Greece exposures are diversified across a number of countries.
may default on its debts: there is also the possibility that Greece may eventually exit the euro.
Our exposures to The overall portfolio has drawn risk exposures amounting Greece mainly consist of loans and advances and reverse to about US$34bn, with just over 47% consisting of repos.
At 31 December 2014 these amounted to US$4bn exposures to oil service companies and non-integrated and US$2bn respectively.
Included in loans and advances producers.
In-depth client reviews have been conducted are US$2bn related to the shipping industry, on larger clients considered to be potentially vulnerable to denominated in US dollars and booked in the UK.
We depressed oil prices for a period of one to two years, believe the shipping industry is less sensitive to the particularly, but not exclusively, focusing on oil service Greek economy as it is mainly dependent on companies, and producers and their suppliers reliant on international trade.
expensive extraction methods such as shale or oil sands.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 126 Credit risk 1 Page App Tables Page Credit risk 129 206 Summary of credit risk 129 Gross loans to customers and banks over five years 130 Loan impairment charge over five years 130 Loan impairment charges by geographical region 130 Loan impairment charges by industry 130 Loan impairment allowances over five years 130 Credit risk management 206 Credit exposure 130 Maximum exposure to credit risk 130 Other credit risk mitigants 130 Maximum exposure to credit risk 131 Loan and other credit-related commitments 131 Concentration of exposure 132 206 Financial investments 132 Trading assets 132 Derivatives 132 Loans and advances 132 Gross loans and advances to customers by industry sector and by geographical region 132 Credit quality of financial instruments 133 207 Credit quality classification Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality 134 Past due but not impaired gross financial Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments by instruments 136 geographical region 136 Ageing analysis of days for past due but not impaired gross financial instruments 136 Impaired loans 137 Movement in impaired loans by geographical region 137 Renegotiated loans and forbearance 138 208 Renegotiated loans and advances to customers by geographical region 139 Movement in renegotiated loans by geographical region 140 Impairment of loans and advances 141 Loan impairment charge to the income statement by industry sector 141 Loan impairment charge to the income statement by assessment type 141 Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers by geographical region 142 Movement in impairment allowances by industry sector and geographical region 142 Movement in impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers and banks 143 Impairment assessment 212 Wholesale lending 144 Total wholesale lending 144 Commercial real estate 145 Commercial real estate lending 145 Commercial real estate loans and advances including loan commitments by level of collateral 147 Other corporate, commercial and financial non-bank loans and advances including loan commitments by level of collateral rated CRR EL8 to 10 only 148 Loans and advances to banks including loan commitments by level of collateral 149 Other credit risk exposures 149 Derivatives 149 Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives by product type 150 OTC collateral agreements by type 150 Reverse repos non-trading by geographical region 151 Reverse repos non-trading by geographical region 151 Loan Management Unit 213 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 127 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk 1 Page App Tables Page Personal lending 151 Total personal lending 151 Mortgage lending 152 HSBC Finance US Consumer and Mortgage Lending Other personal lending 153 residential mortgages 153 HSBC Finance: foreclosed properties in the US 153 Trends in two months and over conctractual delinquency in the US 153 Gross loan portfolio of HSBC Finance and real estate secured balances 154 Number of renegotiated real estate secured accounts remaining in HSBC Finances portfolio 154 HSBC Finance loan modifications and re-age programmes 154 Collateral and other credit enhancements held 156 Residential mortgage loans including loan commitments by level of collateral 156 Supplementary information 157 Gross loans and advances by industry sector over 5 years 157 Reconciliation of reported and constant currency impaired loans, allowances and charges by geographical region 158 Reconciliation of reported and constant currency loan impairment charges to the income statement 158 Loan impairment charges by industry sector over 5 years 159 Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers 159 Movement in impairment allowances over 5 years 159 Gross loans and advances to customers by country 160 Refinance risk 214 HSBC Holdings 161 HSBC Holdings maximum exposure to credit risk 161 Securitisation exposures and other structured products 161 214 Overall exposure of HSBC 161 Carrying amount of HSBCs consolidated holdings of ABSs 162 Definitions and classifications of ABSs and CDOs 214 Representations and warranties related to mortgage sales and securitisation activities 162 1 Appendix to Risk risk policies and practices.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 128 Summary of credit risk Credit risk Unaudited Unaudited 2014 2013 Page Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a US$bn US$bn customer or counterparty fails to meet an At year-end Maximum exposure to credit obligation under a contract.
It arises principally risk 3,133 3,112 131 from direct lending, trade finance and leasing 1 Gross loans and advances business, but also from other products such personal lending 393 411 132 as guarantees and credit derivatives and from wholesale lending 706 716 132 holding assets in the form of debt securities.
Total 1,099 1,127 132 There were no material changes to our policies and Impaired loans practices for the management of credit risk in 2014. personal lending 15 19 137 wholesale lending 14 18 137 A summary of our current policies and practices regarding credit risk is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 204.
Total 29 37 137 Impaired loans as a % of Our maximum exposure to credit risk is presented on gross loans and advances page 131 and credit quality on page 133.
While credit personal lending 3.9% 4.6% risk arises across most of our balance sheet, losses have wholesale lending 2.0% 2.5% typically been incurred on loans and advances and total 2.7% 3.3% securitisation exposures and other structured products.
US$bn US$bn As a result, our disclosures focus primarily on these two Impairment allowances areas.
personal lending 4.6 6.6 143 This year we have redesigned the Credit risk section in wholesale lending 7.8 8.6 143 order to enhance clarity and reduce duplication.
It now Total 12.4 15.2 143 begins with a summary of credit risk followed by an Loans and advances net of 1 overview of our gross exposures.
We describe various impairment allowances 1,087 1,112 measures of credit quality such as past due status, For year ended 31 December impaired loans and renegotiated loans before analysing Loan impairment charge personal lending 1.8 3.1 141 impairment allowances.
There are specific sections on wholesale lending 2.3 2.9 141 wholesale lending and personal lending where additional Total 4.1 6.0 141 detail is provided and we cover areas of particular focus such as our exposure to commercial real estate in For footnotes, see page 202. wholesale lending and our Consumer and Mortgage See page 158 for further details in respect of the constant Lending CML portfolio in personal lending.
For an analysis of loans and advances by followed by a section describing our securitisation country see page 160. exposures and other structured products.
Information Wholesale gross loans and advances increased by on our exposures to oil and gas, Russia and Greece is US$21bn.
Asia grew by US$16bn and North America by provided in Areas of special interest on page 126.
US$10bn with more modest levels of growth in the Following the change in balance sheet presentation Middle East and North Africa and Latin America.
This explained on page 347, non-trading reverse repos are was offset by a decrease of US$15bn in Europe.
Loan shown separately on the balance sheet and are no longer impairment charges were lower in 2014 as we continued included in Loans and advances to customers and to benefit from the improvement in various economies Loans and advances to banks.
Comparative data have and the low interest rate environment.
As a result, any analysis Personal lending balances, excluding the planned US that references loans and advances to customers or CML portfolio run off, grew by US$7.7bn.
This was banks excludes non-trading reverse repos.
The amount primarily driven by increased mortgage and other of the non-trading reverse repos to customers and banks lending in Asia and growth in the mortgage portfolio in is set out on page 151. both North America and Latin America.
The growth was Loan impairment charges, loan impairment allowances partially offset by lower lending balances in Europe due and impaired loans all reduced compared with 2013. to repayments on the mortgage and credit card portfolio Gross loans and advances decreased by US$28bn in the UK.
The CML portfolio declined by a further which included adverse foreign exchange movements US$5.7bn during the year.
Loan impairment charges of US$51bn: excluding these movements customer were down as a result of improvements in the US lending grew in 2014. housing market and the continued run-off of the CML portfolio.
The commentary that follows is on a constant currency basis, whilst tables are presented on a reported basis.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 129 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk 1 Gross loans to customers and banks over five years US$bn Credit exposure Unaudited Maximum exposure to credit risk Impaired 18 14 15 15 Audited 15 Not impaired The table on page 131 provides information on balance 32 24 19 15 27 sheet items, offsets and loan and other credit-related 698 692 666 commitments.
Commentary on balance sheet 647 620 movements is provided on page 58.
The offset on 393 391 392 367 378 derivatives increased in line with the increase in maximum exposure amounts.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The offset on corporate and commercial loans to Personal Wholesale customers decreased by US$31bn.
This reduction was in Loan impairment charge over five years US$bn the UK where a small number of clients benefit from the Unaudited use of net interest arrangements across their overdraft 11.2 and deposit positions.
During the year, as we aligned our 9.3 approach in our Payments and Cash Management business to be more globally consistent, many of these 5.4 clients increased the frequency with which they settled these balances thereby reducing the amount of offset 3.1 2.9 2.8 2.4 2.2 2.3 1.8 available.
Maximum exposure to credit risk table page 131 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The table presents our maximum exposure to credit risk from Personal Wholesale balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments Loan impairment charges by geographical region US$bn before taking account of any collateral held or other credit Unaudited enhancements unless such enhancements meet accounting offsetting requirements.
For financial assets recognised on 2013 2014 2.6 the balance sheet, the maximum exposure to credit risk equals their carrying amount: for financial guarantees and similar 2.0 1.7 contracts granted, it is the maximum amount that we would have to pay if the guarantees were called upon.
For loan 1.2 1.1 commitments and other credit-related commitments, it is 0.6 generally the full amount of the committed facilities.
0.5 0.3 The offset in the table relates to amounts where there is a legally enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty Europe Asia MENA North Latin default and where, as a result, there is a net exposure for credit America America risk purposes.
However, as there is no intention to settle these balances on a net basis under normal circumstances, they do Loan impairment charges by industry US$bn not qualify for net presentation for accounting purposes.
Unaudited In the case of derivatives the offset column also includes 2013 2014 collateral received in cash and other financial assets.
2.5 2.2 2.0 1.9 Other credit risk mitigants While not disclosed as an offset in the Maximum 0.8 0.6 exposure to credit risk table, other arrangements are in 0.3 place which reduce our maximum exposure to credit risk.
0.1 0.1 These include a charge over collateral over borrowers First lien Other Commercial Other Financial specific assets such as residential properties.
Other residential personal real corporate credit risk mitigants include short positions in securities mortgages lending estate commercial and financial assets held as part of linked insurance Loan impairment allowances over five years investment contracts where the risk is predominantly Unaudited borne by the policyholder.
In addition, we hold collateral Loan impairment allowances US$bn in the form of financial instruments that are not Loan impairment allowances as a % of impaired loans recognised on the balance sheet.
55% 53% 51% 53% 48% See Note 32 and from page 147 and page 156 respectively on 37% 38% 35% 35% 30% the Financial Statements for further details on collateral in respect of certain loans and advances and derivatives.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 131 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk portfolio was in government and government agency debt Concentration of exposure Unaudited securities.
We had significant exposures to US Treasury and government agency debt securities US$26bn Concentrations of credit risk are described in the Appendix to Risk on page 206. and UK US$9.3bn and Hong Kong US$6.9bn government debt securities.
The geographical diversification of our lending portfolio and our broad range of global businesses and products For an analysis of debt and equity securities held for trading, see Note 12 on the Financial Statements.
ensured that we did not overly depend on a few markets to generate growth in 2014.
This diversification also Derivatives supported our strategy for growth in faster-growing Derivative assets were US$345bn at 31 December 2014 markets and those with international connectivity.
Details of derivative amounts cleared Financial investments through an exchange, central counterparty and noncentral counterparty are shown on page 150.
Our holdings of available-for-sale government and government agency debt securities, corporate debt For an analysis of derivatives, see page 150 and Note 16 on the securities, ABSs and other securities were spread across Financial Statements.
a wide range of issuers and geographical regions in 2014, Loans and advances to customers with 15% invested in securities issued by banks and other financial institutions and 72% in government or The following tables analyse loans and advances to government agency debt securities.
We also held assets customers by industry sector and by the location of the backing insurance and investment contracts.
principal operations of the lending subsidiary or, in the case of the operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai For an analysis of financial investments, see Note 18 on the Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East Financial Statements.
Limited HSBC Bank Middle East and HSBC Bank USA, Trading assets by the location of the lending branch.
The distribution of loans across geographical regions and industries Trading securities remained the largest concentration remained similar to last year.
within trading assets at 77% compared with 75% in 2013.
The largest concentration within the trading securities For an analysis of loans and advances by country see page 160.
For the purpose of the following disclosure, retail loans Credit quality of financial instruments Audited which are past due up to 90 days and are not otherwise classified as impaired in accordance with our disclosure A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the credit quality of financial instruments is provided in the convention are not disclosed within the expected loss Appendix to Risk on page 207.
EL grade to which they relate, but are separately classified as past due but not impaired.
We assess credit quality on all financial instruments The overall credit quality of assets remained stable which are subject to credit risk.
with Strong and Good categories making up 84% of The five classifications describing the credit quality of the portfolio, Satisfactory 13%, Sub-standard and Past our lending, debt securities portfolios and derivatives due but not impaired 2% and Impaired 1%.
are defined on page 207 unaudited.
Additional credit quality information in respect of our consolidated holdings of ABSs is provided on page 162.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 135 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Past due but not impaired gross financial of their facilities, they have not met the impaired loan instruments criteria described on page 137.
Audited Overall, past due but not impaired balances decreased by Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments are US$2.2bn, mainly due to continued run-off and loan sales those loans where, although customers have failed to in the CML portfolio.
make payments in accordance with the contractual terms Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments by geographical region Audited North Latin 4 Europe Asia MENA America America Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers held at amortised cost 2,409 4,260 704 4,634 1,350 13,357 personal 1,159 2,880 182 3,759 896 8,876 corporate and commercial 1,244 1,102 508 623 445 3,922 financial non-bank financial institutions 6 278 14 252 9 559 Other financial instruments 6 52 31 97 25 211 At 31 December 2014 2,415 4,312 735 4,731 1,375 13,568 Loans and advances to customers held at amortised cost 2,399 4,211 757 6,453 1,640 15,460 personal 1,287 2,764 174 4,817 1,133 10,175 corporate and commercial 1,092 1,197 580 1,635 505 5,009 financial non-bank financial institutions 20 250 3 1 2 276 Other financial instruments 45 49 50 101 73 318 At 31 December 2013 2,444 4,260 807 6,554 1,713 15,778 For footnote, see page 202.
Ageing analysis of days for past due but not impaired gross financial instruments Audited Up to 29 30-59 60-89 90-179 180 days days days days days and over Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers held at amortised cost 10,427 2,057 801 54 18 13,357 personal 6,477 1,717 676 5 1 8,876 corporate and commercial 3,417 328 114 48 15 3,922 financial non-bank financial institutions 533 12 11 1 2 559 Other financial instruments 130 33 18 12 18 211 At 31 December 2014 10,557 2,090 819 66 36 13,568 Loans and advances to customers held at amortised cost 11,689 2,587 1,057 76 51 15,460 personal 7,170 2,124 865 16 10,175 corporate and commercial 4,290 418 190 60 51 5,009 financial non-bank financial institutions 229 45 2 276 Other financial instruments 214 55 26 12 11 318 At 31 December 2013 11,903 2,642 1,083 88 62 15,778 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 136 otherwise consider, and where it is probable that Impaired loans Audited without the concession the borrower would be unable to meet the contractual payment obligations Impaired loans and advances are those that meet any of in full, unless the concession is insignificant and there the following criteria: are no other indicators of impairment.
Renegotiated wholesale loans and advances classified as Customer loans remain classified as impaired until there is Risk Rating CRR 9 or CRR 10.
These grades are sufficient evidence to demonstrate a significant assigned when the bank considers that either the reduction in the risk of non-payment of future customer is unlikely to pay their credit obligations cash flows, and there are no other indicators of in full, without recourse to security, or when the impairment.
customer is more than 90 days past due on any For loans that are assessed for impairment on a material credit obligation to HSBC.
collective basis, the evidence to support reclassification retail loans and advances classified as Expected Loss as no longer impaired typically comprises a history of EL 9 or EL 10.
These grades are typically assigned to payment performance against the original or revised retail loans and advances more than 90 days past due terms, depending on the nature and volume of unless individually they have been assessed as not renegotiation and the credit risk characteristics impaired.
For loans that are renegotiated loans and advances that have been assessed for impairment on an individual basis, all subject to a change in contractual cash flows as a available evidence is assessed on a case-by-case basis.
result of a concession which the lender would not For further details of the CRR and the EL scales see page 207.
Impaired loans decreased by US$7.2bn during the year.
when their contractual payment terms have been Personal impaired loans declined mainly due to the modified, because we have significant concerns about continued run off and loan sales in the CML portfolio in the borrowers ability to meet contractual payments North America.
In personal lending, Net repayments when due.
On renegotiation, where the existing and other includes US$2.9bn of CML portfolio assets agreement is cancelled and a new agreement is made that were reclassified as held for sale and also sold on substantially different terms, or if the terms of an during the year.
existing agreement are modified such that the renegotiated loan is substantially a different financial Impaired loans in wholesale lending declined mainly in instrument, the loan would be derecognised and Europe and, to a lesser extent, in North America and recognised as a new loan for accounting purposes.
Latin America due to repayments and a reduction in However, the newly recognised financial asset will new impaired loans which reflected improvements in retain the renegotiated loan classification.
Concessions the economic conditions in these markets.
These on loans made to customers which do not affect the decreases were offset by an increase in Asia.
payment structure or basis of repayment, such as waivers of financial or security covenants, do not Renegotiated loans and forbearance Audited directly provide concessionary relief to customers in Current policies and procedures regarding renegotiated loans terms of their ability to service obligations as they fall and forbearance are described in the Appendix to Risk on due and are therefore not included in this page 208. classification.
The contractual terms of a loan may be modified for The most significant portfolio of renegotiated loans a number of reasons, including changes in market remained in North America, substantially all of which conditions, customer retention and other factors not were retail loans held by HSBC Finance.
related to the current or potential credit deterioration The following tables show the gross carrying amounts of a customer.
Forbearance describes concessions of the Groups holdings of renegotiated loans and made on the contractual terms of a loan in response to advances to customers by industry sector, geography an obligors financial difficulties.
We classify and report and credit quality classification.
The following table shows movements in renegotiated loans and write-offs reduced as a result of improvements loans during the year.
Renegotiated loans reduced by in the US housing market and economic conditions.
Renegotiated loans in Renegotiated loans in wholesale lending decreased by personal lending reduced by US$4bn.
The reductions were mainly concentrated in other movements is US$1.9bn of CML portfolio assets Europe and Latin America and were the result of that were transferred to held for sale.
New renegotiated increased write-offs and repayments.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 140 Impairment of loans and advances The tables below analyse the impairment allowances Audited recognised for impaired loans and advances that are A summary of our current policies and practices regarding either individually or collectively assessed, and collective impairment assessment is provided in the Appendix to Risk impairment allowances on loans and advances that are on page 212.
For an analysis of loan impairment charges and classified as not impaired.
other credit risk provisions by global business, see page 76.
Loan impairment charge to the income statement by industry sector Unaudited North Latin 4 Europe Asia MENA America America Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Personal 245 321 25 117 1,095 1,803 first lien residential mortgages 75 6 24 26 15 52 7 other personal 320 315 49 91 1,080 1,855 Corporate and commercial 790 327 6 196 937 2,256 manufacturing and international trade and services 520 197 36 116 382 1,251 commercial real estate and other propertyrelated 78 29 28 27 176 282 8 other commercial 192 101 2 53 379 723 5 Financial 44 4 32 13 1 4 Total loan impairment charge for the year ended 31 December 2014 1,079 644 1 300 2,033 4,055 Personal 32034546963 1,522 3,196 first lien residential mortgages 11 7 13 647 11 627 7 other personal 33135259316 1,511 2,569 Corporate and commercial 1,467 152 13 253 1,115 2,974 manufacturing and international trade and services 800 134 37 125 594 1,690 commercial real estate and other propertyrelated 432 2 5 79 322 826 8 other commercial 23520 45 49 199 458 5 Financial 55 14 77 19 5 122 Total loan impairment charge for the year ended 31 December 2013 1,732 483 44 1,235 2,642 6,048 Loan impairment charge to the income statement by assessment type Unaudited North Latin 4 Europe Asia MENA America America Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Individually assessed impairment allowances 617 351 32 190 590 1,780 new allowances 1,112 542 134 298 738 2,824 release of allowances no longer required 486 171 95 88 90 930 recoveries of amounts previously written off 9 20 7 20 58 114 12 Collectively assessed impairment allowances 462 293 33 110 1,443 2,275 new allowances net of allowance releases 757 426 2 205 1,726 3,116 recoveries of amounts previously written off 295 133 35 95 283 841 Total loan impairment charge for the year ended 31 December 2014 1,079 644 1 300 2,033 4,055 Individually assessed impairment allowances 1,376 145 86 262 623 2,320 new allowances 1,828 316 196 398 702 3,440 release of allowances no longer required 402 145 235 98 31 911 recoveries of amounts previously written off 50 26 47 38 48 209 12 Collectively assessed impairment allowances 356 338 42 973 2,019 3,728 new allowances net of allowance releases 943 479 82 1,058 2,253 4,815 recoveries of amounts previously written off 587 141 40 85 234 1,087 Total loan impairment charge for the year ended 31 December 2013 1,732 483 44 1,235 2,642 6,048 For footnotes, see page 202.
Total loan impairment charges of US$4.1bn were the corporate and commercial lending portfolios, US$2.0bn lower than in 2013 reflecting reduced primarily in North America, Europe and Latin America.
impairment charges in both the personal lending and HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 141 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk In North America, loan impairment charges relating to were partly offset by an increase in collectively assessed both first lien mortgages and other personal lending allowances in the corporate and commercial lending decreased, which reflected reduced levels of both sector as we revised certain estimates in our collective delinquency and new impaired loans in the CML portfolio, corporate loan impairment calculation, and in the financial and a fall in lending balances from continued run-off and industry sector reflecting charges compared with releases loan sales.
This was partly offset by lower favourable in 2013. market value adjustments of underlying properties as In Latin America, the reduction in loan impairment improvements in housing market conditions were less charges in the other personal lending and the corporate pronounced in 2014 than in 2013. and commercial portfolios primarily reflected the prior In Europe, the reduction in loan impairment charges was year adverse effect of changes to the impairment model primarily in corporate and commercial lending, as a result and assumption revisions for restructured loan portfolios of lower individually assessed impairment allowances in Brazil.
Individually assessed allowances were broadly reflecting the improved quality of the portfolio and stable.
There were lower loan impairment charges in economic conditions.
Loan impairment charges also Mexico in the commercial real estate and other property decreased in personal lending, albeit to a lesser extent, related sector, in particular relating to certain due to lower delinquency levels in the improved economic homebuilders.
In Brazil individually assessed allowances environment and as customers continued to reduce increased due to an impairment relating to a corporate outstanding credit card and loan balances.
These factors customer in the other commercial sector.
Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers by geographical region Unaudited North Latin 4 Europe Asia MENA America America Total % % % % % % New allowances net of allowance releases 0.37 0.22 0.14 0.32 5.00 0.53 Recoveries 0.08 0.04 0.14 0.09 0.72 0.10 Total charge for impairment losses at 31 December 2014 0.29 0.18 0.23 4.28 0.43 Amount written off net of recoveries 0.49 0.13 0.58 0.97 3.59 0.58 New allowances net of allowance releases 0.65 0.20 0.15 1.00 5.93 0.81 Recoveries 0.17 0.05 0.29 0.09 0.57 0.14 Total charge for impairment losses at 31 December 2013 0.48 0.15 0.14 0.91 5.36 0.67 Amount written off net of recoveries 0.42 0.12 0.38 1.10 3.69 0.59 For footnote, see page 202.
Movement in impairment allowances by industry sector and by geographical region Unaudited North Latin 4 Europe Asia MENA America America Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Impairment allowances at 1 January 2014 5,598 1,214 1,583 4,242 2,564 15,201 Amounts written off Personal 724 463 157 1,030 1,359 3,733 first lien residential mortgages 21 17 4 731 40 813 7 other personal 703 446 153 299 1,319 2,920 Corporate and commercial 1,202 146 47 346 684 2,425 manufacturing and international trade and services 732 86 41 81 428 1,368 commercial real estate and other property-related 342 53 6 153 39 593 8 other commercial 128 7 112 217 464 5 Financial 203 8 6 4 221 Total amounts written off 2,129 609 212 1,382 2,047 6,379 Recoveries of amounts written off in previous years Personal 271 143 35 86 283 818 first lien residential mortgages 3 3 40 33 79 7 other personal 268 140 35 46 250 739 Corporate and commercial 29 9 7 25 58 128 manufacturing and international trade and services 19 7 7 6 46 85 commercial real estate and other property-related 11 3 1 15 8 other commercial 1 2 16 11 28 5 Financial 4 1 4 9 Total recoveries of amounts written off in previous years 304 153 42 115 341 955 Charge to income statement 1,079 644 1 300 2,033 4,055 13 Exchange and other movements 397 46 6 635 362 1,446 Impairment allowances at 31 December 2014 4,455 1,356 1,406 2,640 2,529 12,386 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 142 North Latin 4 Europe Asia MENA America America Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Impairment allowances against banks: individually assessed 31 18 49 Impairment allowances against customers: individually assessed 2,981 812 1,110 276 1,016 6,195 12 collectively assessed 1,443 544 278 2,364 1,513 6,142 Impairment allowances at 31 December 2014 4,455 1,356 1,406 2,640 2,529 12,386 Impairment allowances at 1 January 2013 5,361 1,219 1,811 5,616 2,162 16,169 Amounts written off Personal 876 461 107 1,330 1,593 4,367 first lien residential mortgages 83 7 2 779 25 896 7 other personal 793 454 105 551 1,568 3,471 Corporate and commercial 1,264 96 78 277 514 2,229 manufacturing and international trade and services 680 73 64 80 386 1,283 commercial real estate and other property-related 289 7 2 141 23 462 8 other commercial 295 16 12 56 105 484 5 Financial 40 3 10 3 3 59 Total amounts written off 2,180 560 195 1,610 2,110 6,655 Recoveries of amounts written off in previous years Personal 584 153 41 82 237 1,097 first lien residential mortgages 25 4 67 23 119 7 other personal 559 149 41 15 214 978 Corporate and commercial 52 14 46 41 45 198 manufacturing and international trade and services 19 7 2 6 27 61 commercial real estate and other property-related 6 4 18 1 29 8 other commercial 27 3 44 17 17 108 5 Financial 1 1 Total recoveries of amounts written off in previous years 637 167 87 123 282 1,296 Charge to income statement 1,732 483 44 1,235 2,642 6,048 13 Exchange and other movements 48 95 76 1,122 412 1,657 Impairment allowances at 31 December 2013 5,598 1,214 1,583 4,242 2,564 15,201 Impairment allowances against banks: individually assessed 35 18 5 58 Impairment allowances against customers: individually assessed 4,019 634 1,131 410 878 7,072 12 collectively assessed 1,544 580 434 3,827 1,686 8,071 Impairment allowances at 31 December 2013 5,598 1,214 1,583 4,242 2,564 15,201 For footnotes, see page 202.
Movement in impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers and banks Audited Banks Customers individually Individually Collectively assessed assessed assessed Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2014 58 7,072 8,071 15,201 Amounts written off 6 2,313 4,060 6,379 Recoveries of loans and advances previously written off 114 841 955 Charge to income statement 4 1,776 2,275 4,055 13 Exchange and other movements 7 454 985 1,446 At 31 December 2014 49 6,195 6,142 12,386 Impairment allowances: on loans and advances to customers 6,195 6,142 12,337 personal 468 4,132 4,600 corporate and commercial 5,532 1,909 7,441 financial 195 101 296 1 as a percentage of loans and advances 0.04% 0.63% 0.62% 1.13% HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 143 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Banks Customers individually Individually Collectively assessed assessed assessed Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2013 57 6,572 9,540 16,169 Amounts written off 4 1,937 4,714 6,655 Recoveries of loans and advances previously written off 209 1,087 1,296 Charge to income statement 5 2,315 3,728 6,048 13 Exchange and other movements 87 1,570 1,657 At 31 December 2013 58 7,072 8,071 15,201 Impairment allowances: on loans and advances to customers 7,072 8,071 15,143 personal 589 6,013 6,602 corporate and commercial 6,096 1,963 8,059 financial 387 95 482 1 as a percentage of loans and advances 0.05%0.70%0.80% 1.35% For footnotes, see page 202. banking requirements in key growth markets.
The fall in Wholesale lending lending in Europe of US$15bn was mainly driven by On a reported basis gross loans decreased by US$11bn, a reduction in corporate overdraft balances.
In the UK, which included adverse foreign exchange movements of a small number of clients benefited from the use of net US$32bn, mainly in Europe.
interest arrangements across their overdraft and deposit The following commentary is on a constant currency positions.
During the year, as we aligned our approach basis.
in our Payments and Cash Management business to be more globally consistent, many of these clients increased Wholesale lending grew by US$21bn in the year.
In Asia, the frequency with which they settled these balances, balances grew by US$16bn as we continued to leverage reducing their overdraft and deposit balances, which fell our position in emerging markets.
In North America, we by US$28bn.
The Middle East and North Africa and Latin also experienced strong growth of US$10bn as we America grew by US$6bn and US$4bn, respectively.
Commercial real estate lending includes the financing of redevelopment of existing stock and the augmentation corporate, institutional and high net worth individuals of both commercial and residential markets to support who are investing primarily in income producing assets economic and population growth.
In lesser developed and, to a lesser extent, in their construction and commercial real estate markets our exposures comprise development.
The business focuses mainly on traditional lending for development assets on relatively short tenors core asset classes such as retail, offices, light industrial with a particular focus on supporting the larger, better and residential building projects.
The portfolio is globally capitalised developers involved in residential construction diversified with larger concentrations in Hong Kong, the or in assets supporting economic expansion.
Many of these markets are beginning to move away from In more developed markets, our exposure mainly the rapid construction of recent years with an increasing comprises the financing of investment assets, the focus on investment assets consistent with more HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 145 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk developed markets.
A significant amount of exposure is real estate sector than applies to other lending.
In each centred on cities which are key locations of economic, case, the analysis includes off-balance sheet loan political or cultural importance.
commitments, primarily undrawn credit lines.
Total commercial real estate was US$73bn at The collateral measured in the tables below consists of 31 December 2014, a reduction of US$1.6bn which fixed first charges on real estate and charges over cash included adverse foreign exchange movements of and marketable financial instruments.
The values in the US$3.3bn, mainly in Europe.
tables represent the expected market value on an open market basis: no adjustment has been made to the Refinance risk in commercial real estate collateral for any expected costs of recovery.
Cash is valued at its nominal value and marketable securities at Commercial real estate lending tends to require the their fair value.
The LTV ratios presented are calculated repayment of a significant proportion of the principal at by directly associating loans and advances with the maturity.
Typically, a customer will arrange repayment collateral that individually and uniquely supports each through the acquisition of a new loan to settle the facility.
When collateral assets are shared by multiple existing debt.
Refinance risk is the risk that a customer, loans and advances, whether specifically or, more being unable to repay the debt on maturity, fails generally, by way of an all monies charge, the collateral to refinance it at commercial rates.
Refinance risk value is pro-rated across the loans and advances is described in more detail on page 214.
We monitor protected by the collateral.
our commercial real estate portfolio closely, assessing those drivers that may indicate potential issues with Other types of collateral which are commonly taken refinancing.
The principal driver is the vintage of the for corporate and commercial lending such as loan, when origination reflected previous market norms unsupported guarantees and floating charges over which do not apply in the current market.
Examples the assets of a customers business are not measured in might be higher LTV ratios and or lower interest cover the tables below.
While such mitigants have value, often ratios.
The range of refinancing sources in the local providing rights in insolvency, their assignable value is market is also an important consideration, with risk not sufficiently certain and they are therefore assigned increasing when lenders are restricted to banks and no value for disclosure purposes.
when bank liquidity is limited.
In addition, underlying For impaired loans the collateral values cannot be fundamentals such as the reliability of tenants, the directly compared with impairment allowances ability to let and the condition of the property are recognised.
The LTV tables below use open market important, as they influence property values.
Impairment allowances are For the Groups commercial real estate portfolios as a calculated on a different basis, by considering other cash whole, the behaviour of markets and the quality of flows and adjusting collateral values for costs of realising assets did not cause undue concern in 2014.
In the UK, collateral as explained further on page 212. which was subject to heightened concerns in recent years, the drivers described above are not currently Commercial real estate loans and advances causing sufficient concern to warrant enhanced The value of commercial real estate collateral is management attention.
determined by using a combination of professional and Further details on our UK portfolio are as follows: at internal valuations and physical inspections.
Due to the 31 December 2014, we had US$20bn 2013: US$22bn complexity of valuing collateral for commercial real of commercial real estate loans of which US$5.9bn estate, local valuation policies determine the frequency 2013: US$6.8bn were due to be refinanced within the of review on the basis of local market conditions.
Of these balances, cases subject to close Revaluations are sought with greater frequency as monitoring in our Loan Management Unit amounted to concerns over the performance of the collateral or US$2.1bn 2013: US$2.4bn.
US$1.3bn 2013: US$1.6bn the direct obligor increase.
Revaluations may also were disclosed as impaired with impairment allowances be sought where customers amend their banking of US$0.6bn 2013: US$0.6bn.
Where these loans are requirements, resulting in the Group extending further not considered impaired it is because there is sufficient funds or other significant rearrangements of exposure or evidence to indicate that the associated contractual cash collateral, which may change the customer risk profile.
flows will be recovered or that the loans will not need to As a result, the real estate collateral values used for be refinanced on terms we would consider below market CRR1-7 might date back to the last point at which such norms.
For CRR 8 and 9-10 almost all collateral would have been revalued within the last Collateral on loans and advances three years.
Details of the Groups practice regarding the use of collateral are In Hong Kong, market practice is typically for lending provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 213. to major property companies to be either secured by guarantees or unsecured.
In Europe, facilities of Collateral held is analysed separately below for a working capital nature are generally not secured by commercial real estate and for other corporate, a first fixed charge and are therefore disclosed as not commercial and financial non-bank lending.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 147 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Other corporate, commercial and financial likely performance of secondary sources of repayment non-bank loans are analysed separately below.
For should it prove necessary to rely on them.
financing activities in other corporate and commercial Accordingly, the table below reports values only for lending, collateral value is not strongly correlated to customers with CRR 8 to 10, recognising that these principal repayment performance.
Collateral values are loans and advances generally have valuations which generally refreshed when an obligors general credit are comparatively recent.
Loans and advances to banks are typically unsecured.
i. e. classified as impaired are separately disclosed.
Other credit risk exposures the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk includes financial guarantees and similar contracts granted, as In addition to collateralised lending, other credit well as loan and other credit-related commitments.
enhancements are employed and methods used to Depending on the terms of the arrangement, we mitigate credit risk arising from financial assets.
These may have recourse to additional credit mitigation are described in more detail below: in the event that a guarantee is called upon or a loan some securities issued by governments, banks and commitment is drawn and subsequently defaults.
other financial institutions benefit from additional For further information on these arrangements, credit enhancement provided by government see Note 37 on the Financial Statements.
guarantees that cover the assets.
Derivatives Details of government guarantees are included in Notes 12, 15 and 18 on the Financial Statements.
HSBC participates in transactions exposing us to counterparty credit risk.
Counterparty credit risk is the debt securities issued by banks and financial risk of financial loss if the counterparty to a transaction institutions include ABSs and similar instruments defaults before satisfactorily settling it.
It arises which are supported by underlying pools of financial principally from OTC derivatives and securities financing assets.
Credit risk associated with ABSs is reduced transactions and is calculated in both the trading and through the purchase of credit default swap CDS non-trading books.
Transactions vary in value by protection.
reference to a market factor such as interest rate, Disclosure of the Groups holdings of ABSs and associated exchange rate or asset price.
CDS protection is provided on page 162.
The counterparty risk from derivative transactions is taken into account when reporting the fair value of trading assets include loans and advances held derivative positions.
The adjustment to the fair value with trading intent.
These mainly consist of cash is known as the credit value adjustment CVA.
collateral posted to satisfy margin requirements on derivatives, settlement accounts, reverse repos and For an analysis of CVA, see Note 13 on the Financial Statements.
There is limited credit risk on cash The table below reflects by risk type the fair values and collateral posted since in the event of default of the gross notional contract amounts of derivatives cleared counterparty these would be set-off against the through an exchange, central counterparty and nonrelated liability.
Reverse repos and stock borrowing central counterparty.
are by their nature collateralised.
Collateral accepted as security that the Group is permitted to sell or repledge under these arrangements is described in Note 19 on the Financial Statements.
outside the collateral policy which includes collateral that includes wrong way risks, a submission to one of The International Swaps and Derivatives Association three regional Documentation Approval Committees ISDA Master Agreement is our preferred agreement DACs for approval is required.
These DACs require the for documenting derivatives activity.
It provides the participation and sign-off of senior representatives from contractual framework within which dealing activity regional Global Markets Chief Operating Officers, Legal across a full range of OTC products is conducted, and and Risk.
contractually binds both parties to apply close-out netting across all outstanding transactions covered by The majority of the counterparties with whom we have an agreement if either party defaults or another prea collateral agreement are European.
The majority of agreed termination event occurs.
It is common, and our our CSAs are with financial institutional clients.
preferred practice, for the parties to execute a Credit As a consequence of our policy, the type of agreement Support Annex CSA in conjunction with the ISDA we enter into is predominately ISDA CSAs, the majority Master Agreement.
Under a CSA, collateral is passed of which are written under English law.
The table below between the parties to mitigate the counterparty risk provides a breakdown of OTC collateral agreements by inherent in outstanding positions.
agreement type: We manage the counterparty exposure arising from market risk on our OTC derivative contracts by using OTC collateral agreements by type collateral agreements with counterparties and netting Unaudited Number of agreements.
Currently, we do not actively manage agreements our general OTC derivative counterparty exposure ISDA CSA English law 2,434 in the credit markets, although we may manage ISDA CSA New York law 1,628 individual exposures in certain circumstances.
ISDA CSA Japanese law 18 15 We have historically placed strict policy restrictions French Master Agreement and CSA equivalent 227 16 German Master Agreement and CSA equivalent 90 on collateral types and as a consequence the types of Others 205 collateral received and pledged are, by value, highly At 31 December 2014 4,602 liquid and of a strong quality, being predominantly cash.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 150 See page 130 and Note 32 on the Financial Statements for and are no longer included in Loans and advances to details regarding legally enforceable right of offset in the event customers and Loans and advances to banks.
of counterparty default and collateral received in respect of Comparative data have been re-presented accordingly.
As a result, any analysis in the Credit Risk section that Reverse repos non-trading by geographical references loans and advances to customers or banks region excludes non-trading reverse repos to customers or banks, respectively.
For reference, the amount of nonFollowing the change in balance sheet presentation trading reverse repos to customers and banks is set out explained on page 347, non-trading reverse repos are below.
We also Personal lending offer loans secured on existing assets, such as first liens We provide a broad range of secured and unsecured on residential property, and unsecured lending products personal lending products to meet customer needs.
such as overdrafts, credit cards and payroll loans.
Total personal lending was US$394bn at 31 December Malaysia US$0.4bn, and Taiwan US$0.3bn as a result 2014, down from US$411bn at the end of 2013 of strong demand and competitive customer offerings.
US$392bn on a constant currency basis.
We continued The quality of our Asian mortgage book remained high to run-off our CML portfolio in North America and the with negligible defaults and impairment allowances.
balance declined by a further US$5.7bn during the year.
The average LTV ratio on new mortgage lending in Hong Kong was 47% compared with an estimated 29% for Personal lending excluding the US CML run-off portfolio the overall portfolio.
grew by US$7.7bn on a constant currency basis in 2014.
This was mainly due to increased mortgage and other In North America, our Canadian mortgage balances lending in Asia and growth in the mortgage portfolio in increased by US$0.5bn during the year as a result of a the US and Brazil.
It was partially offset by a reduction in focused mortgage campaign and process improvements.
The Premier mortgage portfolio in the US also increased by US$0.9bn during 2014 as we continued to focus on Mortgage lending growth in our core portfolios.
Our business in the US Unaudited exhibited lower collectively assessed impairment charges We offer a wide range of mortgage products designed to due to continued improvement in the credit quality of meet customer needs, including capital repayment, the mortgage portfolio.
The US CML portfolio declined by interest-only, affordability and offset mortgages.
Group credit policy prescribes the range of acceptable Mortgage lending in Brazil increased by US$0.5bn as a residential property LTV thresholds with the maximum result of improvements to both our process and products upper limit for new loans set at between 75% and 95%.
offered and overall growth in the mortgage market in the country during the year.
Specific LTV thresholds and debt-to-income ratios are managed at regional and country levels and, although In Europe, there was a marginal decline of US$1.4bn or the parameters must comply with Group policy, strategy 1% due to decreased lending and effects of repayments, and risk appetite, they differ in the various locations in mainly in the UK mortgage portfolio.
which we operate to reflect the local economic and Interest-only products made up US$44bn of total housing market conditions, regulations, portfolio UK mortgage lending, including US$19bn of offset performance, pricing and other product features.
The LTV ratio on new lending The commentary that follows is on a constant currency was 60% compared with an average of 43.7% for basis the total mortgage portfolio.
The credit quality of our UK mortgage portfolio remained high and both loan Personal lending excluding the US CML run-off portfolio, impairment charges and delinquency levels declined mortgage lending balances increased by US$3.9bn during in 2014. the year.
Mortgage lending in Asia, excluding the reclassification to Other Personal lending discussed on We grew our mortgage book in France by US$0.6bn in page 153, grew by US$4.8bn.
The increases were the year due to strong demand.
primarily attributable to continued growth in Hong Kong US$2.9bn and, to a lesser extent, in Australia US$0.5bn, HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 152 Other personal lending to lower delinquency and loss severity levels than in Unaudited 2013.
Other personal lending increased by US$3.7bn in Across the first and second lien residential mortgages 2014.
This was driven by growth in personal loans and in our CML portfolio, two months and over delinquent revolving credit facilities in Asia, mainly in Hong Kong balances reduced by US$2.5bn to US$2.4bn during 2014 US$3.1bn.
We also reclassified US$1.7bn of loans in reflecting the continued portfolio run-off and loan sales.
mainland China from Residential mortgages to other personal lending as the supporting collateral over some of HSBC Finance: foreclosed properties in the US Unaudited the properties either under construction or completed 2014 2013 was yet to be fully registered.
These increases were US$m US$m partially offset by a reduction in credit card lending of Number of foreclosed properties at US$0.7bn in the UK and US$0.3bn in Turkey, due to year-end 2,139 4,254 repayments.
Term lending in North America, primarily Number of properties added to foreclosed inventory in the period 3,716 9,752 Canada, declined by US$0.7bn during the year.
There was Average gain loss on sale of also a US$0.2bn reduction in the auto finance dealers run 18 foreclosed properties 1% 1% off portfolio in Brazil.
Average total loss on foreclosed 19 properties 51% 51% HSBC Finance US Consumer and Mortgage Lending Average time to sell foreclosed 17 residential mortgages properties days 189 154 Unaudited For footnotes, see page 202.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Residential mortgages: The number of foreclosed properties at 31 December first lien 21,915 27,305 2014 significantly decreased compared with the end of Other personal lending: 2013 as during 2014 more properties were sold than second lien 2,509 3,014 were added to the foreclosed inventory.
We added Total A at 31 December 24,424 30,319 fewer properties to the inventory as many of them were Impairment allowances 1,679 3,028 sold prior to taking title as a result of the ongoing sale of as a percentage of A 6.9% 10.0% receivables from the CML portfolio.
HSBC Bank USA HSBC Finance In HSBC Bank USA, mortgage balances grew by US$0.9bn Mortgage lending balances in HSBC Finance declined during 2014 as we implemented our strategy to grow the by US$5.7bn during 2014.
In addition to the continued HSBC Premier customer base.
Credit quality improved loan sales in the CML portfolio, we transferred a further further during 2014 and balances which were two US$2.9bn to assets held for sale during the year, and months and over delinquent in our first lien residential expect to sell these in multiple transactions over the next mortgage portfolio declined by US$0.3bn to US$1.1bn at 12 months.
We also continued to sell all agency eligible new originations in the secondary market as a The decrease in impairment allowances reflected lower means of managing our interest rate risk and improving levels of both new impaired loans and loan balances structural liquidity.
outstanding as a result of continued liquidation of the portfolio.
This included loan sales and loss estimates due Trends in two months and over contractual delinquency in the US Unaudited 2014 2013 US$m US$m In personal lending in the US First lien residential mortgages 3,271 5,931 Consumer and Mortgage Lending 2,210 4,595 other mortgage lending 1,061 1,336 Second lien residential mortgages 216 406 Consumer and Mortgage Lending 154 276 other mortgage lending 62 130 Credit card 17 25 Personal non-credit card 7 25 Total at 31 December 3,511 6,387 % % As a percentage of the equivalent loans and receivables balances First lien residential mortgages 8.6 14.0 Second lien residential mortgages 5.0 8.1 Credit card 2.4 3.4 Personal non-credit card 1.4 4.9 Total at 31 December 8.1 13.1 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 153 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Gross loan portfolio of HSBC Finance real estate secured balances Unaudited Total Total nonTotal Total Impairment Modified renegotiated renegotiated gross impairment allowances 20 Re-aged and re-aged Modified loans loans loans allowances gross loans US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m % At 31 December 2014 6,637 6,581 587 13,805 10,619 24,424 1,679 7 At 31 December 2013 8,167 8,213 768 17,148 13,171 30,319 3,028 10 For footnote, see page 202.
Number of renegotiated real estate secured accounts remaining in HSBC Finances portfolio Unaudited Number of renegotiated loans 000s Total number Modified of loans Re-aged and re-aged Modified Total 000s At 31 December 2014 85 64 6 155 297 At 31 December 2013 102 78 8 188 352 HSBC Finance loan modifications and re-age two minimum qualifying monthly payments within 60 programmes days.
In certain circumstances where the debt has been restructured in bankruptcy proceedings, fewer or no HSBC Finance maintains loan modification and re-age payments may be required.
Real estate secured loans loan renegotiation programmes in order to manage involving a bankruptcy and accounts whose borrowers customer relationships, improve collection opportunities are subject to a Chapter 13 plan filed with a bankruptcy and, if possible, avoid foreclosure.
court generally may be considered current upon receipt Since 2006, HSBC Finance has implemented an extensive of one qualifying payment, while accounts whose loan renegotiation programme, and a significant portion borrowers have filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy of its loan portfolio has been subject to renegotiation at protection may be re-aged upon receipt of a signed some stage in the life of the customer relationship as a reaffirmation agreement.
In addition, some products consequence of the economic conditions in the US and accounts may be re-aged without receipt of a payment the characteristics of HSBC Finances customer base.
in certain special circumstances e. g. in the event of a The volume of loans that qualify for modification has natural disaster or a hardship programme.
reduced significantly in recent years and we expect this 2014 compared with 2013 trend to continue.
Volumes of new loan modifications are decreasing due to improvements in economic At 31 December 2014, renegotiated real estate secured conditions, the cessation of new real estate secured accounts in HSBC Finance represented 91% 2013: 91% and personal non-credit card receivables originations, of North Americas total renegotiated loans.
US$8.0bn and the continued run-off and loan sales in the CML of renegotiated real estate secured loans were portfolio.
During 2014, the aggregate number of renegotiated loans in HSBC Finance Qualifying criteria reduced, due to the run-off and loan sales in the CML portfolio, despite renegotiation activity continuing.
For an account to qualify for renegotiation it must meet certain criteria, and HSBC Finance retains the right to Within the constraints of our Group credit policy, HSBC decline a renegotiation.
The extent to which HSBC Finances policies allow for multiple renegotiations Finance renegotiates accounts that are eligible under its under certain circumstances.
Consequently, a significant existing policies varies according to its view of prevailing proportion of loans included in the table above have economic conditions and other factors which may undergone multiple re-ages or modifications.
In this change from year to year.
In addition, exceptions to regard, multiple modifications have remained consistent policies and practices may be made in specific situations at 70% to 75% of total modifications.
in response to legal or regulatory agreements or orders.
The accounts that received second or subsequent Renegotiated real estate secured are not eligible for renegotiations during the year do not appear in the a subsequent renegotiation for 12 months, with a statistics presented.
These statistics treat a loan as an maximum of five renegotiations permitted within addition to the volume of renegotiated loans on its first a five-year period.
Borrowers must be approved for a renegotiation only.
modification and, to activate it, must generally make HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 154 Types of loan renegotiation programmes in HSBC Finance borrowers ability to pay, and the loan is disclosed as impaired.
The loan remains disclosed as impaired from that A temporary modification is a change to the contractual terms date forward until the borrower has demonstrated a history of a loan that results in HSBC Finance giving up a right to of repayment performance for the period of time required contractual cash flows over a pre-defined period.
With a for either modifications or re-ages, as described above.
temporary modification the loan is expected to revert back to the original contractual terms, including the interest rate Valuation of foreclosed properties in the US charged, after the modification period.
An example is reduced We obtain real estate by foreclosing on the collateral pledged as interest payments.
Prior to foreclosure, carrying A substantial number of HSBC Finance modifications involve amounts of the loans in excess of fair value less costs to sell are interest rate reductions, which lower the amount of interest written down to the discounted cash flows expected to be income HSBC Finance is contractually entitled to receive in recovered, including from the sale of the property.
Historically, modifications were granted for Broker price opinions are obtained and updated every 180 days terms as low as six months, although, more recent and real estate price trends are reviewed quarterly to reflect any modifications have a minimum term of two years.
Our methodology is Loans that have been re-aged are classified as impaired regularly validated by comparing the discounted cash flows with the exception of first-time loan re-ages that were less expected to be recovered based on current market conditions than 60 days past due at the time of re-age.
These remain including estimated cash flows from the sale of the property classified as impaired until they have demonstrated a history to the updated broker price opinion, adjusted for the estimated of payment performance against their original contracted historical difference between interior and exterior appraisals.
The terms for at least 12 months.
fair values of foreclosed properties are initially determined on the basis of broker price opinions.
Within 90 days of foreclosure, a A permanent modification is a change to the contractual more detailed property valuation is performed reflecting terms of a loan that results in HSBC Finance giving up a right information obtained from a physical interior inspection of the to contractual cash flows over the life of the loan.
An example property and additional allowances or write-downs are recorded is a permanent reduction in the interest rate charged.
Updates to the valuation are performed no less Permanent or long-term modifications which are due to an than once every 45 days until the property is sold, with declines underlying hardship event remain classified as impaired for or increases recognised through changes to allowances.
Second lien mortgages in the US The term re-age describes a renegotiation by which the contractual delinquency status of a loan is reset to current The majority of second lien residential mortgages were taken after demonstrating payment performance.
The overdue up by customers who held a first lien mortgage issued by a third principal and or interest is deferred and paid at a later date.
Second lien residential mortgage loans have a risk profile Loan re-ageing enables customers who have been unable characterised by higher LTV ratios, because in the majority of to make a small number of payments to have their loan cases the loans were taken out to complete the refinancing of delinquency status reset to current so that their credit score properties.
Loss severity on default of second liens has typically is not affected by the overdue balances.
approached 100% of the amount outstanding, as any equity in the property is consumed through the repayment of the first lien Loans that have been re-aged remain classified as impaired loan.
until they have demonstrated a history of payment performance against the original contractual terms for Impairment allowances for these loans were determined at least 12 months.
by applying a roll-rate migration analysis which captures the propensity of these loans to default based on past experience.
A temporary or permanent modification may also lead to a Once we believe that a second lien residential mortgage loan re-ageing of a loan although a loan may be re-aged without is likely to progress to write-off, the loss severity assumed in any modification to its original terms and conditions.
establishing our impairment allowance is close to 100% in the Where loans have been granted multiple concessions, subject CML portfolios, and more than 80% in HSBC Bank USA.
to the qualifying criteria discussed above, the concession is deemed to have been made due to concern regarding the HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 155 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Collateral and other credit enhancements held collateral in satisfying a debt in the event of the Audited borrower failing to meet its contractual obligations, and Loans and advances held at amortised cost where the collateral is cash or can be realised by sale in an established market.
The collateral valuation excludes Details of the Groups practice regarding the use of collateral are any adjustments for obtaining and selling the collateral provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 213. and, in particular, loans shown as not collateralised or The tables below provide a quantification of the value partially collateralised may also benefit from other forms of fixed charges we hold over specific assets where we of credit mitigants.
The personal lending currency effect on gross loans and on gross loans and advances of US$32bn was made up as advances of US$19bn was made up as follows: Europe follows: Europe US$21bn, Asia US$4.8bn, Latin America US$13bn, Asia US$2.6bn, Latin America US$1.8bn, North US$4.7bn, North America US$1.5bn and Middle East and America US$1.8bn.
The wholesale lending currency effect North Africa US$0.3bn.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 158 Loan impairment charges by industry sector over five years Unaudited 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loan impairment charge release Personal 1,803 3,196 5,362 9,318 11,187 Corporate and commercial 2,256 2,974 2,802 2,114 2,198 5 Financial 4 122 4 73 163 Year ended 31 December 4,055 6,048 8,160 11,505 13,548 For footnotes, see page 202.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 160 The above tables analyse loans and advances by industry by certain Group operations in the normal conduct sector and by the location of the principal operations of of their business.
It is reviewed and managed within the lending subsidiary or, in the case of the operations of regulatory and internal limits for exposures by our Global The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC Risk function, which provides high-level centralised Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East and HSBC Bank USA, by the oversight and management of credit risks worldwide.
location of the lending branch.
HSBC Holdings maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2014 is shown below.
Its financial assets HSBC Holdings principally represent claims on Group subsidiaries in Audited Europe and North America.
Risk in HSBC Holdings is overseen by the HSBC Holdings All the derivative transactions are with HSBC Asset and Liability Management Committee HALCO.
undertakings that are banking counterparties 2013: The major risks faced by HSBC Holdings are credit risk, 100% and for which HSBC Holdings has in place master liquidity risk and market risk in the form of interest netting arrangements.
Since 2012, the credit risk rate risk and foreign exchange risk, of which the most exposure has been managed on a net basis and the significant is credit risk.
remaining net exposure is specifically collateralised in Credit risk in HSBC Holdings primarily arises from the form of cash.
transactions with Group subsidiaries and from guarantees issued in support of obligations assumed HSBC Holdings maximum exposure to credit risk Audited 2014 2013 Exposure to Exposure to Maximum credit risk Maximum credit risk exposure Offset net exposure Offset net US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand: balances with HSBC undertakings 249 249 407 407 Derivatives 2,771 2,610 161 2,789 2,755 34 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 43,910 43,910 53,344 53,344 Financial investments in HSBC undertakings 4,073 4,073 1,210 1,210 Financial guarantees and similar contracts 52,023 52,023 52,836 52,836 Loan and other credit-related commitments 16 16 1,245 1,245 At 31 December 103,042 2,610 100,432 111,831 2,755 109,076 The credit quality of loans and advances and financial Overall exposure of HSBC Audited investments, both of which consist of intra-Group 23 Carrying amount lending, is assessed as strong or good, with 100% 2014 2013 of the exposure being neither past due nor impaired US$bn US$bn 2013: 100%.
Asset-backed securities 48.9 50.1 fair value through profit or loss 3.6 3.1 Securitisation exposures and other 24 available for sale 29.7 42.7 24 structured products held to maturity 13.4 1.1 Audited loans and receivables 2.2 3.2 This section contains information about our exposure At 31 December 48.9 50.2 to asset-backed securities ABSs, some of which are For footnotes, see page 202. held through consolidated structured entities and are summarised in the table below.
The following table summarises the carrying amount of our ABS exposure by categories of collateral and includes A summary of the nature of HSBCs exposures is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 214. assets held in the GB&M legacy credit portfolio with a carrying value of US$23bn 2013: US$28bn.
At 31 December 2014, the available-for-sale reserve in respect of ABSs was a deficit of US$777m 2013: deficit of US$1,643m.
For 2014, the impairment write-back in respect of ABSs was US$276m 2013: write-back of US$289m.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 161 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Liquidity and funding 23 Carrying amount of HSBCs consolidated holdings of ABSs Audited Designated Of which at fair value held through Available Held to through Loans and consolidated Trading for sale maturity profit or loss receivables Total SEs US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Mortgage-related assets: Sub-prime residential 122 3,081 308 3,511 2,075 US Alt-A residential 96 3,022 11 110 3,239 2,411 US Government agency and sponsored enterprises: MBSs 82 10,401 13,436 23,919 Other residential 928 1,220 330 2,478 652 Commercial property 654 3,627 516 4,797 2,854 Leveraged finance-related assets 172 3,660 218 4,050 2,526 Student loan-related assets 242 3,545 119 3,906 3,284 Other assets 1,264 1,114 19 646 3,043 758 At 31 December 2014 3,560 29,670 13,447 19 2,247 48,943 14,560 Mortgage-related assets: Sub-prime residential 178 2,977 403 3,558 2,782 US Alt-A residential 101 3,538 18 134 3,791 2,926 US Government agency and sponsored enterprises: MBSs 178 18,661 1,110 19,949 Other residential 618 1,925 399 2,942 1,513 Commercial property 133 5,667 104 669 6,573 5,146 Leveraged finance-related assets 294 5,011 251 5,556 4,310 Student loan-related assets 196 3,705 121 4,022 3,495 Other assets 1,271 1,265 34 1,186 3,756 989 At 31 December 2013 2,969 42,749 1,128 138 3,163 50,147 21,161 For footnote, see page 202.
Representations and warranties related to servicers, originators, underwriters, trustees or sponsors of securitisations, have been the subject of lawsuits and mortgage sales and securitisation activities Unaudited governmental and regulatory investigations and inquiries.
We have been involved in various activities related to the sale and securitisation of residential mortgages that are At 31 December 2014, a liability of US$27m 2013: not recognised on our balance sheet.
These activities US$99m was recognised in respect of various include: representations and warranties regarding the origination and sale by HSBC Bank USA of mortgage loans, primarily the purchase of US$24bn of third-party originated to government sponsored entities.
These relate to, mortgages by HSBC Bank USA and their securitisation among other things, the ownership of the loans, the by HSBC Securities USA Inc. HSI between 2005 validity of the liens, the loan selection and origination and 2007: process and compliance with the origination criteria HSI acting as underwriter for the third-party issuance established by the agencies.
In the event of a breach of private label mortgage-backed securities MBSs of its representations and warranties, HSBC Bank USA with an original issuance value of US$37bn, most of may be obliged to repurchase the loans with identified which were sub-prime: and defects or to indemnify the buyers.
The estimated the origination and sale by HSBC Bank USA liability was based on the level of outstanding of mortgage loans, primarily to governmentrepurchase demands, the level of outstanding requests sponsored entities.
for loan files and the expected future repurchase demands in respect of mortgages sold to date which In selling and securitising mortgage loans, various were either two or more payments delinquent or might representations and warranties may be made to become delinquent at an estimated conversion rate.
purchasers of the mortgage loans and MBSs.
When Repurchase demands of US$3m were outstanding at purchasing and securitising mortgages originated by 2014 2013: US$44m.
third parties and underwriting third-party MBSs, the For further information on legal proceedings and regulatory obligation to repurchase loans in the event of a breach matters, see Note 40 on the Financial Statements.
of loan level representations and warranties resides predominantly with the organisation that originated the loan.
Participants in the US mortgage securitisation market that purchased and repackaged whole loans, such as HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 162 Liquidity and funding 1 Page App Tables Page Liquidity and funding 164 215 Primary sources of funding 215 Liquidity and funding in 2014 164 Customer deposit markets 164 Wholesale senior funding markets 164 Liquidity regulation 164 Management of liquidity and funding risk 165 215 Inherent liquidity risk categorisation 215 Core deposits 216 Advances to core funding ratio 165 216 Advances to core funding ratios 165 Stressed coverage ratios 165 216 Stressed one-month and three-month coverage ratios 165 Stressed scenario analysis 216 Liquid assets of HSBCs principal operating entities 166 217 Liquid assets of HSBCs principal entities 166 Net contractual cash flows 166 217 Net cash inflows outflows for inter-bank loans and intra-group deposits and reverse repo, repo and short positions 167 Wholesale debt monitoring 218 Liquidity behaviouralisation 218 Funds transfer pricing 219 Contingent liquidity risk arising from committed The Groups contractual undrawn exposures monitored lending facilities 167 under the contingent liquidity risk limit structure 167 Sources of funding 168 Repos and stock lending 219 Funding sources and uses 168 Cross-border intra-Group and cross-currency liquidity and funding risk 169 Advances to core funding ratios by material currency 169 Wholesale term debt maturity profile Wholesale funding cash flows payable by HSBC under 169 financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities 170 Encumbered and unencumbered assets 171 220 Summary of assets available to support potential future funding and collateral needs on and off-balance sheet 171 Collateral 171 The effect of active collateral management 220 Off-balance sheet collateral received and pledged for reverse repo, stock borrowing and derivative transactions 171 Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and 171 Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets unencumbered assets 172 Additional contractual obligations 173 Contractual maturity of financial liabilities 173 Cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities 173 Management of cross-currency liquidity and funding risk 221 HSBC Holdings 174 221 Cash flows payable by HSBC Holdings under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities 174 1 Appendix to Risk risk policies and practices.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 163 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Liquidity and funding HSBC UK, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and Liquidity and funding HSBC USA are defined in footnotes 26 to 28 on page 202.
The Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not ACF ratio is discussed on page 216. have sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due, or will have to do Customer deposit markets so at an excessive cost.
The risk arises from On constant currency basis mismatches in the timing of cash flows.
Retail Banking and Wealth Management There were no material changes to our policies and RBWM customer account balances increased by 4%, practices for the management of liquidity and funding driven by our two home markets of the UK and Hong risks in 2014.
Kong and the majority of our priority growth markets.
Following the change in balance sheet presentation Commercial Banking explained on page 347, the advances to deposits ratio now excludes non-trading reverse repos and repos Customer accounts increased by 7% in 2014, driven by with customers.
The change had no effect on the growth in Payments and Cash Management accounts in 31 December 2013 ratio as disclosed.
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding Global Banking and Markets liquidity and funding is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 215.
Customer accounts increased by 2% in 2014, mainly from a rise in Payments and Cash Management accounts.
Our liquidity and funding risk management framework The objective of our liquidity framework is to allow us to Global Private Banking withstand very severe liquidity stresses.
It is designed to be GPB customer account balances decreased by 10% adaptable to changing business models, markets and compared with the end of 2013 following the continued regulations.
repositioning of the GPB business and a client portfolio Our liquidity and funding risk management framework requires: disposal.
liquidity to be managed by operating entities on a stand-alone basis with no implicit reliance on the Group or Wholesale senior funding markets central banks: Conditions in the bank wholesale debt markets were all operating entities to comply with their limits for the generally positive in 2014, supporting increased primary advances to core funding ratio: and market issuance volumes across the capital structure all operating entities to maintain a positive stressed cash from banks when compared with 2013.
Periods of flow position out to three months under prescribed volatility remained, however, particularly during the Group stress scenarios.
latter months of the year when concerns around the decline in the oil price and growth in Europe combined Liquidity and funding in 2014 Unaudited with a variety of other factors to leave the outlook uncertain, with market confidence affected as a result.
The liquidity position of the Group strengthened in 2014, and we continued to enjoy strong inflows of customer In 2014, we issued the equivalent of US$20bn 2013: deposits and maintained good access to wholesale US$16bn of senior term debt securities in the public markets.
Customer accounts increased by 4% US$47bn capital markets in a range of currencies and maturities on a constant currency basis.
On a reported basis, from a number of Group entities.
customer account balances decreased marginally by 1% US$11bn.
Loans and advances to customers increased Liquidity regulation Unaudited by 3% US$28bn on a constant currency basis.
On a reported basis, loans and advances to customers The European adoption of the Basel Committee decreased by 2% US$17bn.
These changes resulted in a framework legislative texts known as the Capital small decrease in our advances to deposits ratio to 72% Requirements Regulation and Directive CRR CRD IV 2013:73% was published in June 2013, and required the reporting of the liquidity coverage ratio LCR and the net stable HSBC UK recorded a decrease in its advances to core funding ratio NSFR to European regulators from funding ACF ratio to 97% at 31 December 2014 2013: January 2014, which was subsequently delayed until 100%, mainly because core deposits increased more 30 June 2014.
A significant level of interpretation has than advances, and due to the disposal of legacy assets.
been required to report and calculate the LCR as defined The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation in the CRR text as certain areas were only addressed by recorded an increase in its ACF ratio to 75% at the finalisation of the LCR delegated act in January 2015, 31 December 2014 2013: 72%, mainly because which will not become a regulatory standard until advances increased more than core deposits.
The European calibration of NSFR is still HSBC USA recorded an increase in its ACF ratio to 100% pending following the Basel Committees final recommendation in October 2014. at 31 December 2014 2013: 85%, mainly because of growth in customer advances.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 164 assumed haircuts, and cash inflows related to assets Management of liquidity and funding risk Audited contractually maturing within the time period.
Our liquidity and funding risk management framework In general, customer advances are assumed to be LFRF employs two key measures to define, monitor renewed and as a result do not generate a cash inflow.
and control the liquidity and funding risk of each of our 25 Advances to core funding ratios operating entities.
The ACF ratio is used to monitor the Audited structural long-term funding position, and the stressed At 31 December coverage ratio, incorporating Group-defined stress 2014 2013 % % scenarios, is used to monitor the resilience to severe 26 HSBC UK liquidity stresses.
Year-end 97 100 Maximum 102 107 The three principal entities listed in the tables below Minimum 97 100 represented 66% 2013: 66% of the Groups customer Average 100 104 accounts.
Including the other principal entities, the The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 27 percentage was 95% 2013: 94%.
Corporation Year-end 75 72 Maximum 75 77 Advances to core funding ratio Minimum 72 70 The table to the right shows the extent to which loans Average 74 74 28 and advances to customers in our principal banking HSBC USA Year-end 100 85 entities were financed by reliable and stable sources of Maximum 100 85 funding.
Minimum 85 78 Average 95 82 ACF limits set for principal operating entities at Total of HSBCs other principal 31 December 2014 ranged between 80% and 120%.
29 entities Year-end 92 93 Core funding represents the core component of Maximum 94 93 customer deposits and any term professional funding Minimum 92 89 with a residual contractual maturity beyond one year.
Average 93 91 Capital is excluded from our definition of core funding.
Stressed coverage ratios The one-month stressed coverage ratio for HSBC UK The ratios tabulated below express stressed cash inflows increased as certain assets previously treated as realisable as a percentage of stressed cash outflows over both under stress between 1 and 3 months were reassessed as one-month and three-month time horizons.
Operating being either realisable within 1 month or beyond 3 entities are required to maintain a ratio of 100% or months.
The three-month stressed coverage ratio greater out to three months.
Inflows included in the numerator of the stressed The stressed coverage ratios for the other entities coverage ratio are generated from liquid assets net of remained broadly unchanged.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 165 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Liquidity and funding Liquid assets of HSBCs principal operating loans maturing within three months are not included in entities liquid assets, but are treated as contractual cash inflows.
The table below shows the estimated liquidity value Liquid assets are held and managed on a stand-alone before assumed haircuts of assets categorised as liquid operating entity basis.
Most of the liquid assets shown and used for the purposes of calculating the three-month are held directly by each operating entitys Balance Sheet stressed coverage ratios, as defined under the LFRF.
Management function, primarily for the purpose of managing liquidity risk, in line with the LFRF.
The level of liquid assets reported reflects the stock of unencumbered liquid assets at the reporting date, Liquid assets also include any unencumbered liquid adjusted for the effect of reverse repo, repo and assets held outside Balance Sheet Management for any collateral swaps maturing within three months as the other purpose.
The LFRF gives ultimate control of all liquidity value of these transactions is reflected as a unencumbered assets and sources of liquidity to Balance contractual cash flow reported in the net contractual Sheet Management.
For a summary of our liquid asset policy and definitions of the classifications shown in the table below, see the Appendix to Like reverse repo transactions with residual contractual Risk on page 217. maturities within three months, unsecured interbank Liquid assets of HSBCs principal entities Audited 30 Estimated liquidity value 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$m US$m 26 HSBC UK Level 1 131,756 168,877 Level 2 4,688 1,076 Level 3 66,011 63,509 202,455 233,462 27 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Level 1 109,683 108,713 Level 2 4,854 5,191 Level 3 7,043 7,106 121,580 121,010 28 HSBC USA Level 1 51,969 43,446 Level 2 15,184 12,709 Level 3 197 5,044 Other 9,492 8,000 76,842 69,199 29 Total of HSBCs other principal entities Level 1 141,659 144,774 Level 2 10,419 12,419 Level 3 13,038 13,663 165,116 170,856 For footnotes, see page 202.
All assets held within the liquid asset portfolio are reverse repo, repo including intra-Group transactions unencumbered.
and short positions for the principal entities shown.
These contractual cash inflows and outflows are reflected Liquid assets held by HSBC UK decreased as a result gross in the numerator and denominator, respectively, of of switching from central bank reserves to short-term the one and three-month stressed coverage ratios and reverse repo placements.
A corresponding improvement should be considered alongside the level of liquid assets.
can be seen in HSBC UKs net repo cash flow shown in the net contractual cash flow table.
Outflows included in the denominator of the stressed coverage ratios include the principal outflows associated Liquid assets held by The Hongkong and Shanghai with the contractual maturity of wholesale debt Banking Corporation remained broadly unchanged.
securities reported in the table headed Wholesale Liquid assets held by HSBC USA increased, mainly due to funding cash flows payable by HSBC under financial a reduction in short-term repos and the reclassification liabilities by remaining contractual maturities on of some assets as liquid in line with the LFRF.
For a summary of our policy and definitions of the classifications Net contractual cash flows shown in the table below, see the Appendix to Risk on page 218.
The following table quantifies the contractual cash flows from interbank and intra-Group loans and deposits, and HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 166 Net cash inflows outflows for interbank and intra-Group loans and deposits and reverse repo, repo and short positions Audited At 31 December 2014 At 31 December 2013 Cash flows Cash flows from Cash flows Cash flows from within 1 month 1 to 3 months within 1 month 1 to 3 months US$m US$m US$m US$m Interbank and intra-Group loans and deposits 26 HSBC UK 14,110 2,846 19,033 5,272 27 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 1,277 6,862 2,314 7,487 28 HSBC USA 18,353 1,648 24,268 729 29 Total of HSBCs other principal entities 1,322 6,158 4,295 10,149 Reverse repo, repo, stock borrowing, stock lending and outright short positions including intra-Group 26 HSBC UK 16,070 11,551 39,064 149 27 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 8,139 8,189 12,662 4,297 28 HSBC USA 4,928 11,001 29 Total of HSBCs other principal entities 22,110 11,120 40,223 9,551 For footnotes, see page 202.
UK had undrawn committed lending facilities to these Contingent liquidity risk arising from conduits of US$11bn 2013: US$15bn, of which Solitaire committed lending facilities Audited represented US$9.5bn 2013: US$11bn and the remaining US$1.6bn 2013: US$4bn pertained The Groups operating entities provide commitments to Mazarin.
Although HSBC UK provides a liquidity to various counterparties.
In terms of liquidity risk, facility, Solitaire and Mazarin have no need to draw on it the most significant risk relates to committed lending so long as HSBC purchases the commercial paper issued, facilities which, whilst undrawn, give rise to contingent which it intends to do for the foreseeable future.
At liquidity risk as they could be drawn during a period of 31 December 2014, the commercial paper issued by liquidity stress.
Commitments are given to customers Solitaire and Mazarin was entirely held by HSBC UK.
and committed lending facilities are provided to Since HSBC controls the size of the portfolio of securities consolidated multi-seller conduits established to enable held by these conduits, no contingent liquidity risk clients to access flexible market-based sources of finance exposure arises as a result of these undrawn committed see page 443, consolidated securities investment lending facilities.
conduits and third-party sponsored conduits.
The table below shows the level of undrawn The consolidated securities investment conduits include commitments to customers outstanding for the five Solitaire Funding Limited Solitaire and Mazarin largest single facilities and the largest market sector, Funding Limited Mazarin.
They issue asset-backed and the extent to which they are undrawn.
commercial paper secured against the portfolio of securities held by them.
At 31 December 2014, HSBC The Groups contractual undrawn exposures at 31 December monitored under the contingent liquidity risk limit structure Audited The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 26 28 27 HSBC UK HSBC USA HSBC Canada Corporation 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Commitments to conduits Consolidated multi-seller conduits total lines 9.8 10.1 2.3 2.5 0.2 1.0 largest individual lines 0.9 0.7 0.5 0.5 0.2 0.7 Consolidated securities investment conduits total lines 11.1 14.8 Third party conduits total lines 0.1 0.7 Commitments to customers 31 five largest 2.6 4.4 7.1 6.3 1.7 1.5 1.5 2.4 32 largest market sector 16.6 9.5 10.0 8.2 3.5 3.4 3.2 2.7 For footnotes, see page 202.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 167 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Liquidity and funding operating activities and the sources of funding primarily Sources of funding Audited supporting these activities.
The assets and liabilities that do not arise from operating activities are presented as a Our primary sources of funding are customer current net balancing source or deployment of funds.
accounts and customer savings deposits payable on demand or at short notice.
We issue wholesale securities The level of customer accounts continued to exceed the secured and unsecured to supplement our customer level of loans and advances to customers.
The positive deposits and change the currency mix, maturity profile funding gap was predominantly deployed in liquid assets or location of our liabilities.
cash and balances with central banks and financial investments as required by the LFRF.
The Funding sources and uses table below, which provides a consolidated view of how our balance sheet Loans and other receivables due from banks continued is funded, should be read in light of the LFRF, which to exceed deposits taken from banks.
The Group requires operating entities to manage liquidity and remained a net unsecured lender to the banking sector.
funding risk on a stand-alone basis.
For a summary of sources and utilisation of repos and stock The table analyses our consolidated balance sheet lending, see the Appendix to Risk on page 219. according to the assets that primarily arise from 33 Funding sources and uses Audited 2014 2013 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m Sources Uses 1 1 Customer accounts 1,350,642 1,361,297 Loans and advances to customers 974,660 992,089 1 1 Deposits by banks 77,426 86,507 Loans and advances to banks 112,149 120,046 Repurchase agreements Repurchase agreements 1 1 non-trading 107,432 164,220 non-trading 161,713 179,690 Debt securities issued 95,947 104,080 Trading assets 304,193 303,192 Subordinated liabilities 26,664 28,976 reverse repos 1,297 10,120 Financial liabilities designated stock borrowing 7,969 10,318 at fair value 76,153 89,084 settlement accounts 21,327 19,435 other trading assets 273,600 263,319 Liabilities under insurance contracts 73,861 74,181 Trading liabilities 190,572 207,025 Financial investments 415,467 425,925 repos 3,798 17,421 Cash and balances with central stock lending 12,032 12,218 banks 129,957 166,599 settlement accounts 17,454 17,428 Net deployment in other balance other trading liabilities 157,288 159,958 sheet assets and liabilities 100,537 118,288 Total equity 199,979 190,459 At 31 December 2,198,676 2,305,829 At 31 December 2,198,676 2,305,829 For footnote, see page 202.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 168 25 Cross-border, intra-Group and cross-currency Advances to core funding ratios by material currency Unaudited liquidity and funding risk At 31 Unaudited December The stand-alone operating entity approach to liquidity and 2014 funding mandated by the LFRF restricts the exposure of our % 26 HSBC UK operating entities to the risks that can arise from extensive Local currency sterling 98 reliance on cross-border funding.
Operating entities US dollars 100 manage their funding sources locally, focusing Euros 99 predominantly on the local customer deposit base.
The Consolidated 97 RBWM, CMB and GPB customer relationships that give rise 27 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation to core deposits within an operating entity generally reflect Local currency Hong Kong dollars 81 a local customer relationship with that operating entity.
US dollars 74 Access to public debt markets is co-ordinated globally by Consolidated 75 28 the Global Head of Balance Sheet Management and the HSBC USA Group Treasurer with Group ALCO monitoring all planned Local currency US dollars 100 Consolidated 100 public debt issuance on a monthly basis.
As a general 29 principle, operating entities are only permitted to issue in Total of HSBCs other principal entities Local currency 97 their local currency and are encouraged to focus on local US dollars 101 private placements.
The public issuance of debt Consolidated 92 instruments in foreign currency is tightly controlled and For footnotes, see page 202. generally restricted to HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank.
A central principle of our stand-alone approach to LFRF is For all HSBCs operating entities, the only significant foreign that operating entities place no future reliance on other currencies that exceed 5% of Group balance sheet liabilities Group entities.
However, operating entities may, at their are the Hong Kong dollar, euro, sterling and US dollar.
discretion, utilise their respective committed facilities from Wholesale term debt maturity profile other Group entities if necessary.
In addition, intra-Group Unaudited large exposure limits are applied by national regulators to The maturity profile of our wholesale term debt individual legal entities locally, which restricts the obligations is set out in the table on page 170, unsecured exposures of legal entities to the rest of the Wholesale funding principal cash flows payable by HSBC Group to a percentage of the lenders regulatory capital.
under financial liabilities by remaining contractual Our LFRF also considers the ability of each entity to maturities.
continue to access foreign exchange markets under The balances in the table do not agree directly with stress when a surplus in one currency is used to meet those in the consolidated balance sheet as the table a deficit in another currency, for example, by using the presents gross cash flows relating to principal payments foreign currency swap markets.
Where appropriate, and not the balance sheet carrying value, which includes operating entities are required to monitor stressed debt securities and subordinated liabilities measured at coverage ratios and ACF ratios for non-local currencies fair value.
Foreign currency swap markets in currency pairs settled through the Continuous Link Settlement Bank are considered to be extremely deep and liquid and it is assumed that capacity to access these markets is not exposed to idiosyncratic risks.
The table below shows the ACF ratios by material currencies for the year ended 31 December 2014.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 169 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Liquidity and funding HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 170 Wholesale funding cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities Unaudited Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years Due not but not but not but not but not but not but not more than more than more than more than more than more than more than Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Debt securities issued 17,336 17,161 19,030 9,352 9,055 27,312 40,855 31,928 172,029 unsecured CDs and CP 5,637 9,337 9,237 4,793 3,010 3,506 4,158 185 39,863 unsecured senior MTNs 1,300 5,679 7,684 2,922 4,794 17,676 23,523 20,715 84,293 unsecured senior structured notes 1,363 1,082 2,049 1,149 979 4,757 8,444 6,789 26,612 secured covered bonds 205 2,765 2,942 5,912 secured ABCP 8,602 8,602 secured ABS 212 1,063 60 283 272 915 1,562 4,367 others 222 458 403 1,297 2,380 Subordinated liabilities 150 3 185 113 5,556 40,487 46,494 subordinated debt securities 150 3 185 113 5,556 34,750 40,757 preferred securities 5,737 5,737 At 31 December 2014 17,336 17,311 19,030 9,355 9,240 27,425 46,411 72,415 218,523 Debt securities issued 25,426 9,752 17,942 11,659 10,587 31,839 46,934 31,066 185,205 unsecured CDs and CP 7,589 7,206 9,867 3,239 5,043 4,449 2,749 40,142 unsecured senior MTNs 6,284 71 5,448 4,221 3,062 21,428 33,091 21,433 95,038 unsecured senior structured notes 987 1,423 1,952 1,689 1,718 3,712 6,036 5,021 22,538 secured covered bonds 1,250 225 2,747 3,317 7,539 secured ABCP 10,383 10,383 secured ABS 74 1,052 675 1,260 764 1,861 2,311 7,997 others 109 164 1,295 1,568 Subordinated liabilities 28 1,171 144 6 1,460 3,374 41,801 47,984 subordinated debt securities 28 1,171 144 6 460 3,374 34,899 40,082 preferred securities 1,000 6,902 7,902 At 31 December 2013 25,426 9,780 19,113 11,803 10,593 33,299 50,308 72,867 233,189 An asset is defined as encumbered if it has been pledged Encumbered and unencumbered assets Unaudited as collateral against an existing liability, and as a result is no longer available to the Group to secure funding, The table on page 172, Analysis of on-balance sheet satisfy collateral needs or be sold to reduce the funding encumbered and unencumbered assets, summarises the requirement.
An asset is therefore categorised as total on and off-balance sheet assets that are capable of unencumbered if it has not been pledged against an supporting future funding and collateral needs and existing liability.
Unencumbered assets are further shows the extent to which these assets are currently analysed into four separate sub-categories: readily pledged for this purpose.
The objective of this disclosure realisable assets, other realisable assets, reverse is to facilitate an understanding of available and repo stock borrowing receivables and derivative assets unrestricted assets that could be used to support and cannot be pledged as collateral.
potential future funding and collateral needs.
At 31 December 2014, the Group held US$1,770bn of The disclosure is not designed to identify assets which unencumbered assets that could be used to support would be available to meet the claims of creditors or to potential future funding and collateral needs, predict assets that would be available to creditors in the representing 85% of the total assets that can support event of a resolution or bankruptcy.
funding and collateral needs on and off-balance sheet.
Of this amount, US$765bn US$684bn on-balance sheet were assessed to be readily realisable.
Summary of assets available to support potential future funding and collateral needs on and off-balance sheet Unaudited 2014 2013 US$bn US$bn Total on-balance sheet assets 2,634 2,671 Less: Reverse repo stock borrowing receivables and derivative assets 518 482 Other assets that cannot be pledged as collateral 281 255 Total on-balance sheet assets that can support funding and collateral needs 1,835 1,934 Add off-balance sheet assets: Fair value of collateral received from reverse repo stock borrowing derivatives that is available to sell or repledge 257 265 Total assets that can support funding and collateral needs on and off-balance sheet 2,092 2,199 Less: On-balance sheet assets pledged 146 187 Off-balance sheet collateral received from reverse repo stock borrowing derivatives which has been repledged or sold 176 187 Assets available to support future funding and collateral needs at 31 December 1,770 1,825 For a summary of our policy on collateral management and derivatives is reported on a gross basis.
The related definition of encumbrance, see the Appendix to Risk on balance sheet receivables and payables are reported on page 213. a net basis where required under IFRSs offset criteria.
As a consequence of reverse repo, stock borrowing and Collateral Unaudited derivative transactions where the collateral received could be but had not been sold or repledged, we Off-balance sheet collateral received and pledged held US$81bn 2013: US$78bn of unencumbered for reverse repo, stock borrowing and derivative collateral available to support potential future funding transactions and collateral needs at 31 December 2014.
The fair value of assets accepted as collateral that we are permitted to sell or repledge in the absence of default Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and was US$257bn at 31 December 2014 2013: US$265bn.
unencumbered assets The fair value of any such collateral sold or repledged The table below presents an analysis of on-balance was US$176bn 2013: US$187bn.
We are obliged to sheet holdings only, and shows the amounts of balance return equivalent securities.
These transactions are sheet assets on a liquidity and funding basis that are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to encumbered.
The table therefore excludes any available standard reverse repo, stock borrowing and derivative off-balance sheet holdings received in respect of reverse transactions.
repos, stock borrowing or derivatives.
The fair value of collateral received and repledged in relation to reverse repos, stock borrowing and HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 171 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Liquidity and funding Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets Unaudited Encumbered Unencumbered Reverse repos stock borrowing Assets Readily Other receivables Cannot pledged as realisable realisable and derivative be pledged collateral assets assets assets as collateral Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash and balances at central banks 123,990 425 5,542 129,957 Items in the course of collection from other banks 4,927 4,927 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 27,674 27,674 Trading assets 59,162 182,305 17,869 9,266 35,591 304,193 Treasury and other eligible bills 1,994 14,122 4 50 16,170 debt securities 46,311 94,941 23 257 141,532 equity securities 10,857 62,855 1,497 40 75,249 loans and advances to banks 2,530 4,818 2,781 17,452 27,581 loans and advances to customers 7,857 11,527 6,485 17,792 43,661 Financial assets designated at fair value 177 2,330 26,530 29,037 Treasury and other eligible bills 52 4 56 debt securities 177 1,058 7,656 8,891 equity securities 1,139 18,867 20,006 loans and advances to banks and customers 81 3 84 Derivatives 345,008 345,008 Loans and advances to banks 178 3,573 74,231 762 33,405 112,149 Loans and advances to customers 24,329 92,238 840,241 1,170 16,682 974,660 Reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 161,713 161,713 Financial investments 61,785 275,732 22,780 55,170 415,467 Treasury and other eligible bills 3,176 75,896 2,167 278 81,517 debt securities 58,609 192,411 18,266 53,970 323,256 equity securities 7,425 2,347 922 10,694 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 294 6,334 29,780 38,768 75,176 Current tax assets 1,309 1,309 Interest in associates and joint ventures 22 17,875 284 18,181 Goodwill and intangible assets 27,577 27,577 Deferred tax 7,111 7,111 At 31 December 2014 145,748 684,371 1,005,531 517,919 280,570 2,634,139 Cash and balances at central banks 161,240 269 5,090 166,599 Items in the course of collection from other banks 6,021 6,021 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 25,220 25,220 Trading assets 99,326 142,211 14,654 20,438 26,563 303,192 Treasury and other eligible bills 3,402 17,976 206 21,584 debt securities 83,563 57,850 231 141,644 equity securities 8,373 55,156 363 63,892 loans and advances to banks 1,796 2,813 6,151 5,263 11,861 27,884 loans and advances to customers 2,192 8,416 7,934 15,175 14,471 48,188 Financial assets designated at fair value 19 2,706 1,883 33,822 38,430 Treasury and other eligible bills 50 50 debt securities 19 826 776 10,968 12,589 equity securities 1,874 1,103 22,734 25,711 loans and advances to banks and customers 64 70 80 Derivatives 282,265 282,265 Loans and advances to banks 162 8,342 80,231 31,311 120,046 Loans and advances to customers 32,218 102,203 854,724 65 2,879 992,089 Reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 179,690 179,690 Financial investments 54,473 289,093 31,096 51,263 425,925 Treasury and other eligible bills 2,985 72,849 2,052 226 78,112 debt securities 51,488 210,516 25,720 50,949 338,673 equity securities 5,728 3,324 88 9,140 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 1,028 16,788 24,619 34,407 76,842 Current tax assets 985 985 Interest in associates and joint ventures 12 16,356 272 16,640 Goodwill and intangible assets 29,918 29,918 Deferred tax 7,456 7,456 At 31 December 2013 187,226 722,595 1,023,832 482,458 255,207 2,671,318 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 172 The US$24bn 2013: US$32bn of loans and advances to Contractual maturity of financial liabilities Audited customers reported in the table above as encumbered have been pledged predominantly to support the The balances in the table below do not agree directly issuance of secured debt instruments such as covered with those in our consolidated balance sheet as the table bonds and ABSs, including asset-backed commercial incorporates, on an undiscounted basis, all cash flows paper issued by consolidated multi-seller conduits.
It also relating to principal and future coupon payments except includes those pledged in relation to any other form of for trading liabilities and derivatives not treated as secured borrowing.
Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation to hedging derivative liabilities are classified In total, the Group pledged US$121bn 2013: US$150bn according to their contractual maturities.
Trading of negotiable securities, predominantly as a result of liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging market-making in securities financing to our clients.
derivatives are included in the On demand time bucket Additional contractual obligations and not by contractual maturity.
A maturity analysis of repos and debt securities in issue included Under the terms of our current collateral obligations in trading liabilities is presented in Note 31 on the Financial under derivative contracts which are ISDA compliant Statements.
CSA contracts and contracts entered for pension obligations, and exclude the contracts entered for In addition, loans and other credit-related commitments special purpose vehicles and additional termination and financial guarantees and similar contracts are events and based on the positions at 31 December generally not recognised on our balance sheet.
The 2014, we estimate that we could be required to post undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under additional collateral of up to US$0.5bn 2013: US$0.7bn financial guarantees and similar contracts are classified in the event of a one-notch downgrade in credit ratings, on the basis of the earliest date they can be called.
which would increase to US$1.2bn 2013: US$1.2bn in the event of a two-notch downgrade.
Cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities Audited On Due within Due between 3 Due between Due after demand 3 months and 12 months 1 and 5 years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deposits by banks 52,682 17,337 3,600 3,580 390 Customer accounts 1,088,769 187,207 61,687 15,826 390 Repurchase agreements non-trading 8,727 91,542 6,180 23 1,057 Trading liabilities 190,572 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 365 2,201 9,192 28,260 39,397 Derivatives 335,168 375 1,257 4,231 1,517 Debt securities in issue 9 32,513 30,194 37,842 7,710 Subordinated liabilities 737 1,256 10,003 42,328 Other financial liabilities 41,517 23,228 4,740 1,893 988 1,717,809 355,140 118,106 101,658 93,777 Loan and other credit-related commitments 406,561 101,156 64,582 62,312 16,769 Financial guarantees and similar contracts 13,166 6,306 13,753 9,575 4,278 At 31 December 2014 2,137,536 462,602 196,441 173,545 114,824 Deposits by banks 56,198 22,965 3,734 2,819 686 Customer accounts 1,097,159 196,048 57,243 15,520 726 Repurchase agreements non-trading 37,117 112,621 14,177 Trading liabilities 207,025 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 18,689 1,967 3,223 39,554 64,144 Derivatives 269,554 456 1,684 6,099 1,638 Debt securities in issue 2,528 35,401 33,695 46,141 6,526 Subordinated liabilities 55 391 2,687 11,871 44,969 Other financial liabilities 31,996 30,706 6,564 2,376 1,300  119,989 Loan and other credit-related commitments 377,352 79,599 55,124 59,747 16,872 Financial guarantees and similar contracts 18,039 4,796 12,040 7,479 3,988 At 31 December 2013 2,115,712 484,950 190,171 191,606 140,849 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 173 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Liquidity and funding Market risk with those on the balance sheet of HSBC Holdings as the HSBC Holdings Audited table incorporates, on an undiscounted basis, all cash flows relating to principal and future coupon payments Liquidity risk in HSBC Holdings is overseen by HALCO.
except for derivatives not treated as hedging Liquidity risk arises because of HSBC Holdings obligation derivatives.
Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation to make payments to debt holders as they fall due.
The to hedging derivative liabilities are classified according to liquidity risk related to these cash flows is managed by their contractual maturities.
Derivatives not treated as matching debt obligations with internal loan cash flows hedging derivatives are included in the On demand and by maintaining an appropriate liquidity buffer that time bucket.
In addition, loan commitments and financial guarantees At 31 December 2014, the Group had US$9.2bn of and similar contracts are generally not recognised on our CRD IV compliant non-common equity capital instruments, balance sheet.
The undiscounted cash flows potentially of which US$3.5bn were classified as tier 2 and US$5.7bn payable under financial guarantees and similar contracts were classified as additional tier 1 for details on the are classified on the basis of the earliest date on which additional tier 1 instruments issued during the year they can be called.
see Note 35 on the Financial Statements.
The balances in the table below do not agree directly Cash flows payable by HSBC Holdings under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities Audited Due between On Due within 3 and 12 Due between Due after demand 3 months months 1 and 5 years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 1,441 985 42 449 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 210 642 6,345 19,005 Derivatives 1,066 103 Debt securities in issue 16 50 263 1,303 Subordinated liabilities 252 770 5,815 28,961 Other financial liabilities 1,132 158 2,507 2,595 1,662 12,975 49,269 Loan commitments 16 Financial guarantees and similar contracts 52,023 At 31 December 2014 54,546 2,595 1,662 12,975 49,269 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 2,053 1,759 2,315 857 5,654 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 299 671 4,921 26,518 Derivatives 704 Debt securities in issue 37 1,780 279 1,451 Subordinated liabilities 225 676 5,699 24,812 Other financial liabilities 885 284  58,435 Loan commitments 1,245 Financial guarantees and similar contracts 52,836 At 31 December 2013 56,838 3,205 5,726 11,756 58,435 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 174 Market risk 1 Page App Tables Page Market risk in 2014 176 Exposure to market risk 176 221 Overview of market risk in global businesses 221 Types of risk by global business 176 Market risk governance 222 Market risk measures 223 Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures 176 223 Sensitivity analysis 176 223 Value at risk 176 223 Stress testing 176 224 Market risk stress testing 176 Trading portfolios 176 225 Value at risk of the trading portfolios 176 Daily VaR trading portfolios 176 Trading VaR 177 Back-testing 177 224 Back-testing of trading VaR against hypothetical profit and loss for the Group 177 Gap risk 225 fide-peg risk 225 ABS MBS exposures 225 Non-trading portfolios 178 225 Value at risk of the non-trading portfolios 178 Daily VaR non-trading portfolios 178 Non-trading VaR 178 Credit spread risk for available-for-sale debt securities including SICs 178 226 Equity securities classified as available for sale 179 226 Fair value of equity securities 179 Market risk balance sheet linkages 179 Balances included and not included in trading VaR 179 Market risk linkages to the accounting balance sheet 180 Structural foreign exchange exposures 181 226 Non-trading interest rate risk 181 226 Interest rate risk behaviouralisation 181 226 Balance Sheet Management 227 Third-party assets in Balance Sheet Management 181 Third-party assets in Balance Sheet Management 181 Sensitivity of net interest income 181 227 Sensitivity of projected net interest income 182 Sensitivity of reported reserves to interest rate movements 183 Defined benefit pension schemes 183 228 HSBCs defined benefit pension schemes 183 Additional market risk measures applicable only to the parent company 183 228 Foreign exchange risk 183 HSBC Holdings foreign exchange VaR 183 Sensitivity of net interest income 184 Sensitivity of HSBC Holdings net interest income to interest rate movements 184 Interest rate repricing gap table 185 Repricing gap analysis of HSBC Holdings 185 1 Appendix to Risk risk policies and practices.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 175 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Market risk Market risk is the risk that movements in market Market risk in 2014 Unaudited factors, including foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, interest rates, credit spreads Global financial markets were characterised by low and equity prices, will reduce our income or the inflation and weak global growth, leading monetary value of our portfolios.
authorities to maintain accommodative policies, using measures such as low interest rates and asset purchases.
There were no material changes to our policies and practices for the management of market risk in 2014.
With US data showing GDP growth, the US Federal Reserve's asset purchase programme came to an end.
Exposure to market risk Despite this, US dollar bond yields fell further.
Market Exposure to market risk is separated into two portfolios: focus switched to actions that the ECB can take to Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from address the issues of low growth and deflation.
A market-making and warehousing of customer-derived sustained period of deflation would have a severe positions.
The interest rate risk on fixed-rate securities issued detrimental impact on countries already in recession and by HSBC Holdings is not included in Group VaR.
The with high debt to GDP ratios.
2014 can be characterised management of this risk is described on page 222. as a period of benign rates and equity markets in the G7 Non-trading portfolios comprise positions that primarily group of countries.
arise from the interest rate management of our retail and commercial banking assets and liabilities, financial Against this backdrop, we maintained an overall investments designated as available for sale and held defensive risk profile in our trading businesses.
Defensive to maturity, and exposures arising from our insurance positions are characterised by low net open positions operations see page 225. or the purchase of volatility protection via options Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures trades.
The lower trading VaR from defensive positioning Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures was offset by an increase caused by lower diversification while maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk and regulatory changes to the calibrations used in appetite.
Non-trading VaR declined during the We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk year as low interest rates, especially in US dollars, caused exposures, including: the duration of non-trading assets to decrease.
Sensitivity analysis includes the sensitivity of net interest income and the sensitivity of structural foreign exchange, Trading portfolios which are used to monitor the market risk positions within Audited each risk type: Value at risk of the trading portfolios Value at risk VaR is a technique that estimates the Trading VaR predominantly resides within Global potential losses that could occur on risk positions as a result Markets.
This was higher at 31 December 2014 than at of movements in market rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence: and 31 December 2013 due to an increase in interest rate trading VaR, the removal of diversification effects within In recognition of VaRs limitations we augment VaR with stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on portfolio values of risk not in VaR RNIV and lower portfolio diversification more extreme, though plausible, events or movements in a benefit across asset classes.
Examples of scenarios reflecting The daily levels of total trading VaR over the last year are current market concerns are the slowdown in mainland China set out in the graph below.
and the potential effects of a sovereign debt default, including its wider contagion effects.
A summary of our market risk management framework including current policies is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 221.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 176 Daily VaR trading portfolios, 99% 1 day US$m Unaudited 90 70 Trading VaR 50 IR trading 30 FX trading CS trading 10 Equity trading -10 Diversification incl RNIV -30 -50 Dec-13 Feb-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Oct-14 Dec-14 The Group trading VaR for the year is shown in the table below.
Back-testing The profit exceptions were driven by the tightening of Unaudited spreads, and exposures to emerging market foreign exchange and interest rates.
There is no evidence of In 2014, the Group experienced one loss exception and two profit exceptions.
model errors or control failures.
The loss exception was due primarily to losses from The graph below shows the daily trading VaR against increased volatility in foreign exchange currencies and hypothetical profit and loss for the Group during 2014. interest rates in some developed markets combined with It excludes exceptions that were exempted by the PRA flattening yield curves.
Back-testing of trading VaR against hypothetical profit and loss for the Group US$m Unaudited USDm 120 70 20 -30 -80 -130 Jan 2014 Feb 2014 Mar 2014 May 2014 Jun 2014 Jul 2014 Sep 2014 Oct 2014 Nov 2014 Dec 2014 Back-testing exception Hypothetical profit and loss VaR 99% HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 177 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Market risk with lower volatilities and credit spread baselines utilised Non-trading portfolios Audited in the VaR calculations.
This movement included the reduction in credit spread risks relating to the Groups Value at risk of the non-trading portfolios holdings of available-for-sale debt securities excluding Non-trading VaR of the Group includes contributions those held in insurance operations which are discussed from all global businesses.
There is no commodity risk in further on page 194. the non-trading portfolios.
The decrease of non-trading In the year, the decline in non-trading interest rate and VaR during 2014 was due primarily to the shortening of credit spread VaR components was offset by a decrease the duration in the non-trading book from lower interest in diversification benefit.
rates, especially in US dollars.
The credit spread risks component also added to a lower non-trading VaR as a The daily levels of total non-trading VaR over the last result of the reduction in the overall position combined year are set out in the graph below.
Daily VaR non-trading portfolios, 99% 1 day US$m Unaudited 280 240 200 160 120 Non-trading VAR IR non-trading 80 CS non-trading 40 0 Diversification -40 -80 -120 Dec-13 Feb-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Oct-14 Dec-14 The Group non-trading VaR for the year is shown in the table below.
Non-trading VaR, 99% 1 day Audited Interest Credit Portfolio rate spread diversification Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2014 88.2 62.5 28.5 122.2 Average 103.3 73.3 37.4 139.2 Maximum 147.7 91.9 189.0 At 31 December 2013 150.6 80.4 76.4 154.6 Average 145.7 106.6 82.1 170.2 Maximum 221.7 135.7 252.3 The management of interest rate risk in the banking Credit spread risk for available-for-sale book is described further in Non-trading interest rate debt securities including SICs risk below, including the role of Balance Sheet The effect of movements in VaR credit spreads on our Management BSM.
available-for-sale debt securities was US$81m 2013: Non-trading VaR excludes equity risk on available-forUS$113m at 31 December 2014.
This sensitivity includes sale securities, structural foreign exchange risk and the gross exposure for the securities investment conduits interest rate risk on fixed rate securities issued by HSBC SICs consolidated within our balance sheet based on Holdings, the management of which is described in credit spread VaR.
This sensitivity excludes losses which the relevant sections below.
These sections together would have been absorbed by the capital note holders.
describe the scope of HSBCs management of market The decrease in this sensitivity at 31 December 2014 risks in non-trading books.
compared with 31 December 2013 was due mainly to reducing the overall positions and lower volatilities and credit spread baselines observed during the year.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 178 Equity securities classified as available for sale from available-for-sale equity securities.
The increase in other strategic investments was largely due to the Fair value of equity securities increase in the market value of the Industrial Bank Audited 2014 2013 investment offsetting the decrease in private equity US$bn US$bn holdings from the disposal of various direct and private 37 Private equity holdings 2.0 2.7 equity fund investments.
Investment to facilitate ongoing 38 business 1.2 1.2 Market risk balance sheet linkages Other strategic investments 7.5 5.2 Unaudited At 31 December 10.7 9.1 The information below and on page 180 aims to facilitate For footnotes, see page 202. an understanding of linkages between line items in the balance sheet and positions included in our market risk The fair value of equity securities classified as available disclosures, in line with recommendations made by the for sale can fluctuate considerably.
The table above sets Enhanced Disclosure Task Force.
out the maximum possible loss on shareholders equity Balances included and not included in trading VaR Unaudited Balances Balances not Primary Balance included in included in market risk sheet trading VaR trading VaR sensitivities US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2014 Assets Cash and balances at central banks 129,957 129,957 B Trading assets 304,193 276,419 27,774 A Financial assets designated at fair value 29,037 29,037 A Derivatives 345,008 333,880 11,128 A Loans and advances to banks 112,149 112,149 B Loans and advances to customers 974,660 974,660 B Reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 161,713 161,713 C Financial investments 415,467 415,467 A Liabilities Deposits by banks 77,426 77,426 B Customer accounts 1,350,642 1,350,642 B Repurchase agreements non-trading 107,432 107,432 C Trading liabilities 190,572 170,576 19,996 A Financial liabilities designated at fair value 76,153 76,153 A Derivatives 340,669 334,199 6,470 A Debt securities in issue 95,947 95,947 C The table represents account lines where there is some exposure to market risk according to the following asset classes: A Foreign exchange, interest rate, equity and credit spread.
B Foreign exchange and interest rate.
C Foreign exchange, interest rate and credit spread.
The table above splits the assets and liabilities into two the table does not reflect how we manage market risk, categories: since we do not discriminate between assets and liabilities in our VaR model.
those that are included in the trading book and are measured by VaR: and The assets and liabilities included in trading VaR give rise to a large proportion of the income included in net those that are not in the trading book and or are not trading income.
As set out on page 49, HSBCs net measured by VaR.
trading income in 2014 was US$6,760 2013: The breakdown of financial instruments included and US$8,690m.
Adjustments to trading income such as not included in trading VaR provides a linkage with valuation adjustments do not feed the trading VaR market risk to the extent that it is reflected in our risk model.
However, it is important to highlight that HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 179 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Market risk Market risk linkages to the accounting balance sheet Trading assets and liabilities purposes.
These arise when the derivative was entered into in order to manage risk arising from non-traded exposures.
They The Groups trading assets and liabilities are in almost all cases include non-qualifying hedging derivatives and derivatives originated by GB&M.
The assets and liabilities are classified as qualifying for fair value and cash flow hedge accounting.
The use held for trading if they have been acquired or incurred principally of non-qualifying hedges whose primary risks relate to interest for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term, or rate and foreign exchange exposure is described on page 181. form part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that Details of derivatives in fair value and cash flow hedge are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent accounting relationships are given in Note 16 on the Financial pattern of short-term profit-taking.
These assets and liabilities Statements.
Our primary risks in respect of these instruments are treated as traded risk for the purposes of market risk relate to interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
management, other than a limited number of exceptions, primarily in Global Banking where the short-term acquisition Loans and advances to customers and disposal of the assets are linked to other non-trading related The primary risk on assets within loans and advances to activities such as loan origination.
customers is the credit risk of the borrower.
The risk of these Financial assets designated at fair value assets is treated as non-trading risk for market risk management purposes.
Financial assets designated at fair value within HSBC are predominantly held within the Insurance entities.
The majority Financial investments of these assets are linked to policyholder liabilities for either Financial investments include assets held on an available-for-sale unit-linked or insurance and investment contracts with DPF.
An analysis of the Groups holdings risks of these assets largely offset the market risk on the liabilities of these securities by accounting classification and issuer type is under the policyholder contracts, and are risk managed on provided in Note 18 on the Financial Statements and by business a non-trading basis.
The majority of these securities are mainly Financial liabilities designated at fair value held within Balance Sheet Management BSM in GB&M.
The positions which are originated in order to manage structural Financial liabilities designated at fair value within HSBC are interest rate and liquidity risk are treated as non-trading risk primarily fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC entities for for the purposes of market risk management.
An accounting mismatch would arise if the security holdings within insurance entities are treated as debt securities were accounted for at amortised cost because non-trading risk and are largely held to back non-linked the derivatives which economically hedge market risks on the insurance policyholder liabilities.
securities would be accounted for at fair value with changes recognised in the income statement.
The market risks of these The other main holdings of available-for-sale assets are the liabilities are treated as non-traded risk, the principal risks being ABSs within GB&Ms legacy credit business, which are treated interest rate and or foreign exchange risks.
We also incur as non-trading risk for market risk management purposes, the liabilities to customers under investment contracts, where the principal risk being the credit risk of the obligor.
liabilities on unit-linked contracts are based on the fair value of The Groups held-to-maturity securities are principally held assets within the unit-linked funds.
The exposures on these funds within the Insurance business.
Risks of held-to-maturity assets are treated as non-traded risk and the principal risks are those of are treated as non-trading for risk management purposes.
the underlying assets in the funds.
Repurchase repo and reverse repurchase reverse repo Derivative assets and liabilities agreements non-trading We undertake derivative activity for three primary purposes: Reverse repo agreements, classified as assets, are a form of to create risk management solutions for clients, to manage the collateralised lending.
HSBC lends cash for the term of the portfolio risks arising from client business and to manage and reverse repo in exchange for receiving collateral normally in hedge our own risks.
Most of our derivative exposures arise the form of bonds.
from sales and trading activities within GB&M and are treated Repo agreements, classified as liabilities, are the opposite of as traded risk for market risk management purposes.
reverse repo, allowing HSBC to obtain funding by providing Within derivative assets and liabilities there are portfolios of collateral to the lender.
derivatives which are not risk managed on a trading intent basis Both transaction types are treated as non-trading risk for market and are treated as non-traded risk for VaR measurement risk management and the primary risk is counterparty credit risk.
For information on the accounting policies applied to financial instruments at fair value, see Note 13 on the Financial Statements.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 180 Structural foreign exchange exposures model risks which cannot be captured by non-trading Unaudited VaR, net interest income or EVE sensitivity, but are controlled by our stress testing framework.
A typical For our policies and procedures for managing structural foreign exchange exposures, see page 226 of the Appendix to Risk.
example would be prepayment risk on residential mortgages or pipeline risk.
For details of structural foreign exchange exposures see Note 33 on the Financial Statements.
Interest rate risk behaviouralisation For our policies regarding interest risk behaviouralisation, see Non-trading interest rate risk Unaudited page 226 of the Appendix to Risk.
For our policies regarding the funds transfer pricing process for Third-party assets in Balance Sheet Management non-trading interest rate risk and liquidity and funding risk, see Unaudited pages 226 and 219, respectively, of the Appendix to Risk.
For our BSM governance framework, see page 227 of the Asset, Liability and Capital Management ALCM Appendix to Risk.
is responsible for measuring and controlling non-trading Third-party assets in BSM decreased by 9% during 2014. interest rate risk under the supervision of the Risk Deposits with central banks reduced by US$31bn, Management Meeting.
Its primary responsibilities are: predominantly in Europe due to a combination of to define the rules governing the transfer of reduced repo activity and a decrease in balances with non-trading interest rate risk from the global the ECB as deposit rates became negative.
Loans and businesses to BSM: advances to banks decreased by US$6bn, mainly in Hong Kong and the rest of Asia.
Financial investments reduced to define the rules governing the interest rate risk by US$8bn due to foreign exchange movements, net behaviouralisation applied to non-trading sales and maturities in Hong Kong and the Americas, assets liabilities see below : partially offset by the increased deployment of funds to ensure that all market interest rate risk that can be into securities in Asia.
neutralised is transferred from the global businesses to BSM: and Third-party assets in Balance Sheet Management Unaudited to define the rules and metrics for monitoring the 2014 2013 residual interest rate risk in the global businesses, US$m US$m including any market risk that cannot be neutralised.
Cash and balances at central banks 103,008 134,086 Trading assets 4,610 5,547 The different types of non-trading interest rate risk and Financial assets designated at fair the controls which we use to quantify and limit exposure value 72 to these risks can be categorised as follows: 1 Loans and advances : to banks 53,842 59,355 risk which is transferred to BSM and managed by BSM to customers 1,931 2,146 within a defined market risk mandate, predominantly Reverse repurchase agreements 59,172 58,968 through the use of fixed rate liquid assets Financial investments 306,763 314,427 government bonds held in available-for-sale Other 2,470 3,700 portfolios and or interest rate derivatives which At 31 December 531,796 578,301 are part of fair value hedging or cash flow hedging For footnote, see page 202. relationships.
This non-trading interest rate risk is reflected in non-trading VaR, as well as in our net Sensitivity of net interest income interest income see below or economic value of Unaudited equity EVE sensitivity: The table below sets out the effect on our future risk which remains outside BSM because it cannot be accounting net interest income excluding insurance of hedged or which arises due to our behaviouralised an incremental 25 basis points parallel rise or fall in all transfer pricing assumptions.
This risk is not reflected yield curves worldwide at the beginning of each quarter in non-trading VaR, but is captured by our net interest during the 12 months from 1 January 2015.
The income or EVE sensitivity and corresponding limits sensitivities shown represent the change in the base case are part of our global and regional risk appetite projected net interest income that would be expected statements for non-trading interest rate risk.
A typical under the two rate scenarios assuming that all other example would be margin compression created by non-interest rate risk variables remain constant, and unusually low rates in key currencies: there are no management actions.
In deriving our base case net interest income projections the re-pricing rate basis risk which is transferred to BSM when it can be of assets and liabilities used is derived from current yield hedged.
Any residual basis risk remaining in the global curves.
The interest rate sensitivities are indicative and businesses is reported to ALCO.
This risk is not based on simplified scenarios.
The limitations of this reflected in non-trading VaR, but is captured by our analysis are discussed in the Appendix to Risk on net interest income or EVE sensitivity.
A typical page 227. example would be a managed rate savings product transfer-priced using a Libor-based interest rate curve: Assuming no management response, a sequence of such and rises up-shock would increase planned net interest HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 181 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Market risk See page 227 in the Risk Appendix for more information about income for 2015 by US$885m 2014: US$938m, while interest rate behaviouralisation and the role of BSM.
a sequence of such falls down-shock would decrease planned net interest income by US$2,089m 2014: The NII sensitivity in BSM arises from a combination of US$1,734m.
the techniques that BSM use to mitigate the transferred The net interest income NII sensitivity of the Group interest rate risk and the methods they use to optimise can be split into three key components: the structural net revenues in line with their defined risk mandate.
sensitivity arising from the four global businesses The figures in the table below do not incorporate the excluding BSM and Markets, the sensitivity of effect of any management decisions within BSM, but in the funding of the trading book Markets and reality it is likely that there would be some short-term the sensitivity of BSM.
adjustment in BSM positioning to offset the NII effects of the specific interest rate scenario where necessary.
The structural sensitivity is positive in a rising rate environment and negative in a falling rate environment.
The NII sensitivity arising from the funding of the trading The sensitivity of the funding of the trading book is book is comprised of the expense of funding trading negative in a rising rate environment and positive in a assets, while the revenue from these trading assets falling rate environment, and in terms of the impact is reported in net trading income.
This leads to an on profit the change in net interest income would be asymmetry in the NII sensitivity figures which is expected to be offset by a similar change in net trading cancelled out in our global business results, where we income.
The sensitivity of BSM will depend on its include both net interest income and net trading income.
Typically, assuming no management response, It is likely, therefore, that the overall effect on profit the sensitivity of BSM is negative in a rising rate before tax of the funding of the trading book will be environment and positive in a falling rate environment.
much less pronounced than shown in the figures below.
The NII sensitivity figures below also incorporate the The up-shock sensitivity remained broadly unchanged effect of any interest rate behaviouralisation applied in 2014.
The down-shock sensitivity increased and the effect of any assumed repricing across products predominantly due to a change in BSMs interest under the specific interest rate scenario.
They do not rate risk profile in US dollars.
incorporate the effect of any management decision to change the HSBC balance sheet composition.
39 Sensitivity of projected net interest income Unaudited Rest of Hong Kong Rest of US dollar Americas dollar Asia Sterling Euro bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Change in 2015 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 209 9 245 265 321 146 885 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 521 1 494 259 783 31 2,089 Change in 2014 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 107 12 327 236 598 128 938 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 291 23 412 233 761 14 1,734 For footnote, see page 202.
We monitor the sensitivity of reported reserves of our overall interest rate exposures.
The accounting to interest rate movements on a monthly basis by treatment of our remaining interest rate exposures, assessing the expected reduction in valuation of while economically largely offsetting the exposures available-for-sale portfolios and cash flow hedges due to shown in the below table, does not require revaluation parallel movements of plus or minus 100bps in all yield movements to go to reserves.
These particular exposures form only a part HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 182 The table below describes the sensitivity of our reported simplified scenarios.
The change in sensitivity of reserves to the stipulated movements in yield curves and reported reserves is predominantly due to a reduction the maximum and minimum month-end figures during in the available-for-sale securities portfolio.
The sensitivities are indicative and based on Sensitivity of reported reserves to interest rate movements Unaudited Maximum Minimum impact impact US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2014 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 3,696 5,212 3,696 As a percentage of total shareholders equity 1.9% 2.7% 1.9% 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 3,250 4,915 3,250 As a percentage of total shareholders equity 1.7% 2.6% 1.7% At 31 December 2013 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 5,762 5,992 5,507 As a percentage of total shareholders equity 3.2% 3.3% 3.0% 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 5,634 5,786 4,910 As a percentage of total shareholders equity 3.1% 3.2% 2.7% Defined benefit pension schemes Additional market risk measures applicable Audited only to the parent company Audited Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension schemes to the extent that the obligations of the The principal tools used in the management of market schemes are not fully matched by assets with risk are VaR for foreign exchange rate risk and the determinable cash flows.
projected sensitivity of HSBC Holdings net interest income to future changes in yield curves and interest HSBCs defined benefit pension schemes rate gap repricing tables for interest rate risk.
Audited 2014 2013 Foreign exchange risk US$bn US$bn Liabilities present value 42.1 40.5 Total foreign exchange VaR arising within HSBC Holdings in 2014 was as follows: % % Assets: Equities 18 18 HSBC Holdings foreign exchange VaR Audited Debt securities 68 70 2014 2013 Other including property 14 12 US$m US$m At 31 December 100 100 At 31 December 29.3 54.1 For details of our defined benefit schemes, see Note 6 on the Average 42.1 51.1 Financial Statements, and for pension risk management see Minimum 29.3 46.7 page 200.
Maximum 50.0 64.1 The foreign exchange risk largely arises from loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature that are not denominated in the functional currency of either the provider or the recipient and which are accounted for as financial assets.
Changes in the carrying amount of these loans due to foreign exchange rate differences are taken directly to HSBC Holdings income statement.
These loans, and most of the associated foreign exchange exposures, are eliminated on consolidation.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 183 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Market risk Sensitivity of net interest income year time horizon of incremental 25 basis point parallel Audited falls or rises in all yield curves worldwide at the HSBC Holdings monitors net interest income sensitivity beginning of each quarter during the 12 months from over a five year time horizon reflecting the longer-term 1 January 2015. perspective on interest rate risk management Assuming no management actions, a sequence of such appropriate to a financial services holding company.
rises would increase planned net interest income for These sensitivities assume that any issuance where HSBC the next five years by US$600m 2013: increase of Holdings has an option to reimburse at a future call date US$602m, while a sequence of such falls would is called at this date.
The table below sets out the effect decrease planned net interest income by US$539m on HSBC Holdings future net interest income over a five 2013: decrease of US$464m.
39 Sensitivity of HSBC Holdings net interest income to interest rate movements Audited US dollar Sterling Euro bloc bloc bloc Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Change in projected net interest income as at 31 December arising from a shift in yield curves 2014 of 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 0-1 year 78 9 2 89 2-3 years 281 17 34 332 4-5 years 138 17 24 179 of 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 0-1 year 58 9 1 68 2-3 years 276 16 12 304 4-5 years 138 17 12 167 2013 of 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 0-1 year 104 14 2 92 2-3 years 382 93 38 327 4-5 years 245 101 38 182 of 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 0-1 year 53 13 2 42 2-3 years 300 91 33 242 4-5 years 243 101 38 180 For footnote, see page 202.
The interest rate sensitivities tabulated above the effect of actions that could be taken to mitigate this are indicative and based on simplified scenarios.
figures represent hypothetical movements in net interest Interest rate repricing gap table income based on our projected yield curve scenarios, HSBC Holdings current interest rate risk profile and The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued assumed changes to that profile during the next five by HSBC Holdings is not included within the Group VaR years.
Changes to assumptions concerning the risk but is managed on a repricing gap basis.
The interest profile over the next five years can have a significant rate repricing gap table below analyses the full-term impact on the net interest income sensitivity for that structure of interest rate mismatches within HSBC period.
However, the figures do not take into account Holdings balance sheet.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 184 Repricing gap analysis of HSBC Holdings Audited Up to From over 1 From over 5 More than Non-interest Total 1 year to 5 years to 10 years 10 years bearing US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand: balances with HSBC undertakings 249 249 Derivatives 2,771 2,771 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 43,910 41,603 290 1,093 924 Financial investments in HSBC undertakings 4,073 3,010 731 332 Investments in subsidiaries 96,264 96,264 Other assets 597 597 147 8641 Total assets 147,864 44,613 290 1,824 101,137 1 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 2,892 1,877 1,015 Financial liabilities designated at fair values 18,679 850 5,472 5,400 4,263 2,694 Derivatives 1,169 1,169 Debt securities in issue 1,009 1,013 4 Other liabilities 1,415 1,415 Subordinated liabilities 17,255 779 3,766 2,000 10,195 515 Total equity 105,445 105,445 Total liabilities and equity 147,864 3,506 9,238 8,413 14,458 112,249 Off-balance sheet items attracting interest rate sensitivity 21,525 7,295 7,400 5,763 1,067 Net interest rate risk gap at 31 December 2014 19,582 1,653 811 8,695 10,045 Cumulative interest rate gap 19,582 17,929 18,740 10,045 Cash at bank and in hand: balances with HSBC undertakings 407 357 50 Derivatives 2,789 2,789 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 53,344 49,979 290 1,239 645 1,191 Financial investments in HSBC undertakings 1,210 300 731 179 Investments in subsidiaries 92,695 92,695 Other assets 391 391 Total assets 150,836 50,636 290 1,970 645 97,295 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 11,685 10,865 820 Financial liabilities designated at fair values 21,027 1,928 4,655 7,810 4,325 2,309 Derivatives 704 704 Debt securities in issue 2,791 1,722 1,069 Other liabilities 1,375 1,375 Subordinated liabilities 14,167 3,030 2,066 8,912 159 Total equity 99,087 99,087 Total liabilities and equity 150,836 14,515 7,685 9,876 14,306 104,454 Off-balance sheet items attracting interest rate sensitivity 18,620 4,382 9,876 4,421 59 Net interest rate risk gap at 31 December 2013 17,501 3,013 1,970 9,240 7,218 Cumulative interest rate gap 17,501 14,488 16,458 7,218 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 185 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Operational risk Operational risk Unaudited 1 Page App Tables Page Operational risk 186 228 Operational risk management framework 186 Three lines of defence 186 Operational risk management framework 187 Operational risk in 2014 187 Frequency and amount of operational risk losses 188 Frequency of operational risk incidents by risk category 189 Distribution of operational risk losses in US dollars by risk category 228 Compliance risk 189 229 Legal risk 229 Global security and fraud risk 230 Systems risk 231 Vendor risk management 231 1 Appendix to Risk risk policies and practices.
Operational risk is relevant to every aspect of our A diagrammatic representation of the ORMF is presented business and covers a wide spectrum of issues, in on page 187. particular legal, compliance, security and fraud.
Activity to embed the use of our operational risk Losses arising from breaches of regulation and management framework continued in 2014.
At the same law, unauthorised activities, error, omission, time, we are streamlining operational risk management inefficiency, fraud, systems failure or external processes and harmonising framework components and events all fall within the definition of operational risk management processes.
This is expected to lead to a risk.
stronger operational risk management culture and more Responsibility for minimising operational risk lies with forward-looking risk insights to enable businesses to HSBCs management and staff.
Each regional, global determine whether material risks are being managed business, country, business unit and functional head is within the Groups risk appetite and whether further required to maintain oversight over the operational risks action is required.
In addition, the Security and Fraud and internal controls of the business and operational Risk and Financial Crime Compliance functions have activities for which they are responsible.
built a Financial Intelligence Unit FIU which provides intelligence on the potential risks of financial crime A summary of our current policies and practices regarding operational risk is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 228. posed by customers and business prospects to enable better risk management decision-making.
The FIU Operational risk management framework provides context and expertise to identify, assess and understand financial crime risks holistically in clients, The Group Operational Risk function and the operational sectors and markets.
risk management framework ORMF directs business management in discharging their responsibilities.
Articulating our risk appetite for material operational risks helps the organisation understand the level of risk The ORMF defines minimum standards and processes, HSBC is willing to accept.
The Group operational risk and the governance structure for operational risk and appetite statement is approved annually by the GRC.
internal control across the Group.
To implement the The Group risk appetite statement, which includes ORMF a three lines of defence model is used for the operational risk appetite metrics, was approved by the management of risk, as described below: HSBC Holdings Board.
Monitoring operational risk Three lines of defence exposure against risk appetite on a regular basis and implementing our risk acceptance process drives risk Every employee at HSBC is responsible for the risks that are a part of their day to day jobs.
It assists First The first line of defence ensures all key risks line of management in determining whether further action within their operations are identified, mitigated defence is required.
and monitored by appropriate internal controls within an overall control environment.
Operational risk and control assessments RCAs are performed by individual business units and functions.
Consists of the global functions such as Risk, Second The risk and control assessment process is designed to Finance and HR who are responsible for line of providing assurance, challenge and oversight provide business areas and functions with a forward defence of the activities conducted by the first line.
looking view of operational risks and an assessment of the effectiveness of controls, and a tracking mechanism for action plans so that they can proactively manage Third operational risks within acceptable levels.
Risk and Internal Audit provides independent assurance line of over the first and second lines of defence.
control assessments are reviewed and updated at least defence annually.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 186 Operational risk management framework Operational Risk Standards Regulatory Compliance Risk and Control Assessment Financial Crime Compliance Fiduciary Legal Information Key Indicators Scenario Accounting Reporting Tax Analysis and Incidents Internal Loss External Fraud Management Internal Fraud Actions People External Events Political Physical Business Continuity Systems Capital Modelling Operations Project Risk Awareness and Culture Set Risk Governance Identify Assess Control Report Appetite RCAs are used to inform the evaluation of the effectiveness of controls over top risks.
Key Indicators are used to help monitor the risks and controls.
Scenarios provide management with a quantified view of our top and emerging operational risks.
Internal incidents are used to forecast typical losses.
External sources are used to inform the assessment of extreme scenarios.
Appropriate means of mitigation and controls are setting of Libor and other interbank offered and considered.
These include: benchmark interest rates.
There are also investigations into foreign exchange, precious metals and credit default making specific changes to strengthen the internal swap-related activities in progress.
In response, we control environment: have undertaken a number of initiatives, including the investigating whether cost-effective insurance cover restructuring of our Compliance sub-functions, enhancing is available to mitigate the risk: and our governance and oversight, measures to implement Global Standards as described on page 26 and other other means of protecting us from loss.
measures put in place designed to ensure we have In addition, an enhanced scenario analysis process has the appropriate people, processes and procedures to been implemented across material legal entities to manage emerging risks and new products and business.
improve the quantification and management of material For further details see 'Compliance risk' on page 189 and for risks.
details of the investigations and legal proceedings see Note 40 on the Financial Statements.
Operational risk in 2014 In November 2014, the UK FCA and the US Commodity During 2014, our operational risk profile continued to be Futures Trading Commission CFTC each announced dominated by compliance and legal risks as referred to having concluded regulatory settlements with a number under Top and emerging risks on page 118.
Losses were of banks, including HSBC Bank plc, in connection with realised relating to events that occurred in previous their respective investigations of trading and other years.
These events included the possible historical conduct involving foreign exchange benchmark rates.
mis-selling of payment protection insurance PPI Under the settlement terms, HSBC Bank plc agreed to products in the UK see Note 29 on the Financial pay a financial penalty to the FCA and a civil monetary Statements.
A number of mitigating actions continue penalty to the CFTC and to undertake various remedial to be taken to prevent future mis-selling incidents.
For further information, see Note 40 on the The incidence of regulatory and other proceedings Financial Statements.
against financial service firms is increasing.
Proposed We have undertaken a review of our compliance with the changes relating to capital and liquidity requirements, fixed-sum unsecured loan agreement requirements of remuneration and or taxes could increase our cost of the UK Consumer Credit Act CCA.
A liability has been doing business, reducing future profitability.
We remain recognised within Accruals, deferred income and other subject to a number of regulatory proceedings including liabilities for the repayment of interest to customers investigations and reviews by various national regulatory, where annual statements did not remind them of their competition and enforcement authorities relating to right to partially prepay the loan, notwithstanding that certain past submissions made by panel banks and the the customer loan documentation did include this right.
process for making submissions in connection with the HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 187 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Operational risk There is uncertainty as to whether other technical providers allows us to develop a better understanding requirements of the CCA have been met, for which of our own susceptibilities and to develop scenarios we have assessed an additional contingent liability.
They will continue to be a focus further details see Note 40 on the Financial Statements.
of ongoing initiatives to strengthen the control environment.
Significant investment has already been We have settled claims by the US Federal Housing made in enhancing controls around data access, the Finance Agency in relation to the purchase of mortgage heightened monitoring of potential cyber-attacks backed securities by the Federal National Mortgage and continued training to raise staff awareness.
This Associations Fannie Mae and the Federal Home Loan is an area that will require continual investment in Mortgage Association Freddie Mac between 2005 our operational processes and contingency plans: and 2007.
For further information, see Note 40 on the Financial Statements.
vendor risk management: we continue to focus on the management of vendor risks including making good Other operational risks included: progress with the implementation of the supplier fraud risks: the threat of fraud perpetrated by or performance management programme with our most against our customers, especially in retail and important suppliers.
Additional focus is put on the commercial banking, may grow during adverse screening of suppliers to enable HSBC to identify if economic conditions.
We increased monitoring, any suppliers are on a sanctions list and to exit such analysed root causes and reviewed internal controls relationships.
Vendor risk management is a core to enhance our defences against external attacks and element of third party risk management: and reduce the level of loss in these areas.
In addition, compliance with regulatory agreements and orders: Group Security and Fraud Risk worked closely with the Failure to implement our obligations under the DPAs global businesses to continually assess these threats could have a material adverse effect on our results as they evolved and adapt our controls to mitigate and operations.
Legal proceedings are discussed in these risks: Note 40 on the Financial Statements and further level of change creating operational complexity: details regarding compliance risk are set out below.
the Global Risk function is engaged with business Other operational risks are also monitored and managed management in business transformation initiatives through the use of the ORMF.
to ensure robust internal controls are maintained, Further information on the nature of these risks is provided in including through participation in all relevant Top and emerging risks on page 118. management committees.
The Global Transactions Team has developed an enhanced risk management Frequency and amount of operational risk losses framework to be applied to the management of The profile of operational risk incidents and associated disposal risks: losses is summarised below, showing the distribution of information security: the security of our information operational risk incidents in terms of their frequency of and technology infrastructure is crucial for occurrence and total loss amount in US dollars.
maintaining our banking services and protecting Operational losses rose in 2014, driven by UK customer our customers and the HSBC brand.
A failure of the redress programme charges and settlements relating to control framework which protects this could have legal and regulatory matters.
implications for the wider financial sector and result in direct financial loss and or the loss of customer As in 2013, the operational risk incident profile in 2014 data and other sensitive information which could comprised both high frequency, low impact events and undermine both our reputation and our ability to high impact events that occurred much less frequently.
retain the trust of our customers.
Programmes of For example, losses due to external fraud incidents such work have been ongoing to strengthen internal as credit card fraud occurred more often than other security controls to prevent unauthorised access to types of event, but the amounts involved were often our systems which may affect live services or facilitate small in value.
By contrast, operational risk incidents in data loss or fraud.
In common with other banks and the compliance category were relatively low frequency multinational organisations, we continue to be a events, but the total cost was significant.
target of increasingly sophisticated cyber-attacks The number of fraud cases was broadly unchanged such as distributed denial of service attacks which during 2014 due to the continued strong control can affect the availability of customer-facing environment.
In addition, reliance on standard internet Losses due to significant historical events, including the technologies, protocols and services means we are possible mis-selling of PPI products in the UK and the subject to wide-scale remediation when flaws are incidence of regulatory matters described in Note 40 reported in these technologies.
Lessons learnt on the Financial Statements remained substantial in from attacks experienced within the industry and 2014. information sharing with other financial institutions, government agencies and external intelligence HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 188 Frequency of operational risk incidents by risk category their operation and the execution of the Group strategy, individual loss US$10k including measures to implement Global Standards, are well positioned to meet increased levels of regulation 1% 2014 Accounting and Tax 1% and scrutiny from regulators and law enforcement 2013 0% agencies.
In addition, the measures we have put in place Financial Crime Compliance 0% are designed to ensure we have the appropriate people, 6% Regulatory Compliance 5% processes and procedures to manage emerging risks and 39% Fraud 39% new products and business.
4% Legal 7% Enhanced global AML and sanctions policies, 23% incorporating risk appetite, were approved by the Board Operations and Systems 22% in January 2014.
The policies adopt and seek to enforce 24% People 25% the highest or most effective standards globally, 2% Other 1% including a globally consistent approach to knowing our customers.
Distribution of operational risk losses in US dollars by risk The policies are being implemented in phases through category the development and application of procedures required to embed them in our day to day business operations 2014 2% Accounting and Tax 3% 2013 globally.
The overriding policy objective is for every 0% Financial Crime Compliance employee to engage in only the right kind of business, 0% conducted in the right way.
54% Regulatory Compliance 43% HSBC has fulfilled all of the requirements imposed by the 6% Fraud 16% DANY DPA, which expired by its terms at the end of the 30% two-year period of that agreement in December 2014.
Legal 14% Breach of the US DPA at any time during its term may 7% Operations and Systems 22% allow the DoJ to prosecute HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank 1% USA in relation to the matters which are the subject of People 2% the US DPA.
For further information, see Regulatory 0% Other 0% commitments and consent orders on page 120.
In May 2014, the Board approved a globally consistent approach to the management of regulatory conduct Compliance risk Unaudited designed to ensure we deliver fair outcomes for our customers and conduct orderly and transparent Compliance risk is the risk that we fail to observe operations in financial markets.
Implementation of the the letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, global conduct approach is managed through the global rules, regulations and standards of good market lines of business and functions and covers all our practice, and incur fines and penalties and suffer business and operational activities.
Examples of these damage to our business as a consequence.
activities are disclosed in Conduct of business on In 2014, we completed the restructuring of our page 121.
Compliance sub-function within Global Risk into two It is clear that the level of inherent compliance risk that new sub-functions: Financial Crime Compliance and we face will continue to remain high for the foreseeable Regulatory Compliance, appropriately supported by future.
However, we consider that good progress is being shared Compliance Chief Operating Officer, Assurance made and will continue to be made in ensuring that we and Reputational Risk Management teams.
We continue are well placed to effectively manage those risks.
to ensure that the Compliance sub-functions, through HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 189 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Risk management of insurance operations Risk management of insurance operations Audited 1 Page App Tables Page HSBCs bancassurance model 190 Overview of insurance products 231 Nature and extent of risks 232 Risk management of insurance operations in 2014 191 Asset and liability matching 191 Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries: by type of contract 191 by geographical region 193 Movement in total equity of insurance operations 193 Financial risks 194 232 Financial assets held by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 194 Market risk 194 232 Financial return guarantees 195 Sensitivity of HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to market risk factors 195 Credit risk 196 234 Treasury bills, other eligible bills and debt securities in 1 HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 196 Reinsurers share of liabilities under insurance contracts 197 Liquidity risk 197 234 Expected maturity of insurance contract liabilities 197 Remaining contractual maturity of investment contract liabilities 197 Analysis of insurance risk liabilities under insurance Insurance risk 198 235 contracts 198 Sensitivities to non-economic assumptions 198 Sensitivity analysis 198 1 Appendix to Risk policies and practices.
The majority of the risk in our insurance By focusing largely on personal and SME lines of business business derives from manufacturing activities we are able to optimise volumes and diversify individual and can be categorised as insurance risk and insurance risks.
Insurance risk is the risk, other than Where we have operational scale and risk appetite, financial risk, of loss transferred from the holder mostly in life insurance, these insurance products are of the insurance contract to the issuer HSBC.
Manufacturing Financial risks include market risk, credit risk and insurance allows us to retain the risks and rewards liquidity risk.
associated with writing insurance contracts by keeping There were no material changes to our policies and part of the underwriting profit, investment income and practices for the management of risks arising in the distribution commission within the Group.
Where we do not have the risk appetite or operational A summary of HSBCs policies and practice regarding the risk scale to be an effective insurance manufacturer, we management of insurance operations and the main contracts we engage with a handful of leading external insurance manufacture is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 231. companies in order to provide insurance products to our customers through our banking network and direct HSBCs bancassurance model channels.
These arrangements are generally structured Unaudited with our exclusive strategic partners and earn the Group We operate an integrated bancassurance model which a combination of commissions, fees and a share of provides insurance products principally for customers profits.
with whom we have a banking relationship.
Insurance products are sold through all global businesses, but We distribute insurance products in all of our predominantly by RBWM and CMB through our branches geographical regions.
We have core life insurance and direct channels worldwide.
manufacturing entities, the majority of which are direct subsidiaries of legal banking entities, in seven countries The insurance contracts we sell relate to the underlying Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, France, the UK, Hong Kong needs of our banking customers, which we can and Singapore.
There are also life insurance identify from our point-of-sale contacts and customer manufacturing subsidiaries in mainland China, Malaysia knowledge.
The majority of sales are of savings and and Malta.
investment products and term and credit life contracts.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 190 The full effect will only be recognised once regulatory Risk management of insurance operations approval is received and the portfolio is transferred to in 2014 the purchaser.
We measure the risk profile of our insurance manufacturing businesses using an economic capital Asset and liability matching approach, where assets and liabilities are measured on Audited a market value basis and a capital requirement is held A principal tool used to manage exposures to both to ensure that there is less than a 1 in 200 chance of financial and insurance risk, in particular for life insolvency over the next year, given the risks that the insurance contracts, is asset and liability matching.
In businesses are exposed to.
In 2014 we aligned the many markets in which we operate it is neither possible measurement approach for market, credit and nor appropriate to follow a perfect asset and liability insurance risks in the economic capital model to the matching strategy.
For long-dated non-linked contracts, new pan-European Solvency II insurance capital in particular, this results in a duration mismatch between regulations, which are applicable from 2016. assets and liabilities.
We therefore structure portfolios to support projected liabilities from non-linked contracts.
The risk profile of our life insurance manufacturing businesses did not change materially during 2014 and The tables below show the composition of assets liabilities to policyholders on these contracts remained and liabilities by contract and by geographical region and constant at US$74bn 2013: US$74bn.
However, a demonstrate that there were sufficient assets to cover notable change arose in the UK where HSBC Life UK Ltd the liabilities to policyholders in each case at the end entered into an agreement to sell its pensions business.
Our most significant life insurance products are As noted above, during the year HSBC entered into an investment contracts with DPF issued in France, agreement to sell its UK pensions business, and the insurance contracts with DPF issued in Hong Kong and related balances are reported as a disposal group held unit-linked contracts issued in Latin America, Hong Kong for sale under IFRS 5 and are therefore included within and the UK.
the Other assets column in the table above.
The disposal group comprises US$6.8bn of total liabilities, Our exposure to financial risks arising in the above being liabilities under unit-linked investment contracts, balance sheet varies depending on the type of contract unit-linked insurance contracts and annuity contracts.
For unit-linked contracts, the policyholder bears also comprises US$6.8bn of total assets, being financial the majority of the exposure to financial risks whereas, and reinsurance assets backing the liabilities, and the for non-linked contracts, the majority of financial risks associated PVIF on these contracts.
The transfer is are borne by the shareholder HSBC.
For contracts with subject to regulatory approvals and is expected to DPF, the shareholder is exposed to financial risks to the complete in the second half of 2015.
As part of the extent that the exposure cannot be managed by utilising transaction we also entered into a reinsurance any discretionary participation or bonus features within agreement transferring certain risks and rewards of the the policy contracts issued.
business to the purchaser from 1 January 2014 until completion of the transaction.
A gain of US$42m was recognised on entering into this reinsurance agreement.
Movement in total equity of insurance operations Audited Total equity 2014 2013 US$m US$m At 1 January 9,700 9,989 43 Change in PVIF of long-term insurance business 261 525 Return on net assets 1,835 848 Capital transactions 673 590 Disposals of subsidiaries portfolios 1 675 Exchange differences and other 758 397 At 31 December 10,366 9,700 For footnote, see page 202.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 193 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Risk management of insurance operations Financial risks liquidity risk the risk of not being able to make Audited payments to policyholders as they fall due as there Details on the nature of financial risks and how they are are insufficient assets that can be realised as cash.
managed are provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 232.
The following table analyses the assets held in our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries at 31 December Financial risks can be categorised into: 2014 by type of contract, and provides a view of the market risk risk arising from changes in the fair exposure to financial risk.
For unit-linked contracts, which values of financial assets or their future cash flows pay benefits to policyholders determined by reference to from fluctuations in variables such as interest rates, the value of the investments supporting the policies, we credit spreads, foreign exchange rates and equity typically designate assets at fair value: for non-linked prices: contracts, the classification of the assets is driven by the credit risk the risk of financial loss following the nature of the underlying contract.
failure of third parties to meet their obligations: and Financial assets held by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries Audited Unit-linked Non-linked Other 47 48 49 contracts contracts assets Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Trading assets Debt securities 3 3 Financial assets designated at fair value 13,334 13,649 1,713 28,696 Treasury bills 40 16 56 Debt securities 4,589 3,507 618 8,714 Equity securities 8,745 10,102 1,079 19,926 Financial investments Held-to-maturity: debt securities 21,789 2,494 24,283 Available-for-sale: 22,899 1,319 24,218 debt securities 22,899 1,290 24,189 equity securities 29 29 Derivatives 2 124 73 199 49 Other financial assets 503 6,905 134 7,542 45 Total financial assets at 31 December 2014 13,839 65,369 5,733 84,941 Trading assets Debt securities 3 3 Financial assets designated at fair value 22,424 13,716 1,757 37,897 Treasury bills 50 50 Debt securities 7,809 3,910 546 12,265 Equity securities 14,615 9,806 1,161 25,582 Financial investments Held-to-maturity: debt securities 21,784 2,142 23,926 Available-for-sale: 20,855 1,603 22,458 debt securities 20,855 1,594 22,449 equity securities 9 9 Derivatives 8 216 55 279 49 Other financial assets 636 6,238 289 7,163 45 Total financial assets at 31 December 2013 23,068 62,812 5,846 91,726 For footnotes, see page 202.
Approximately 67% of financial assets were invested in sale see page 192 and the transfer of US$2.9bn assets debt securities at 31 December 2014 2013: 64% with backing other unit-linked investment contracts to a third 24% 2013: 28% invested in equity securities.
Under unit-linked contracts, premium income less The remaining financial risks are managed either solely charges levied is invested in a portfolio of assets.
We on behalf of the shareholder, or jointly on behalf of the manage the financial risks of this product on behalf shareholder and policyholders where DPF exist.
of the policyholders by holding appropriate assets in Market risk segregated funds or portfolios to which the liabilities are Audited linked.
These assets represented 16% 2013: 25% of the Market risk arises when mismatches occur between total financial assets of our insurance manufacturing product liabilities and the investment assets which back subsidiaries at the end of 2014.
For example, mismatches between asset and US$9.3bn in the value of assets backing unit-linked liability yields and maturities give rise to interest rate contracts is largely due to the classification of US$6.3bn risk.
of assets relating to the UK pensions business as held for HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 194 Our current portfolio of assets includes debt securities to PVIF on the relevant product.
The table below shows issued at a time when yields were higher than those the total reserve held for the cost of guarantees, the observed in the current market.
As a result, yields on range of investment returns on assets supporting these extant holdings of debt securities exceed those available products and the implied investment return that would on current issues.
enable the business to meet the guarantees.
Long-term insurance or investment products may The financial guarantees offered on some portfolios incorporate benefits that are guaranteed.
Fixed exceeded the current yield on the assets that back them.
guaranteed benefits, for example for annuities in The cost of guarantees increased to US$777m 2013: payment, are reserved for as part of the calculation US$575m primarily because of falling yields in France of liabilities under insurance contracts.
As these yields fell, the cost of guarantees on closed portfolios reported in the 2.1%- The risk of shareholder capital being required to meet 4.0% and 4.1%-5.0% categories increased, driven by liabilities to policyholders increases in products that reduced reinvestment yield assumptions.
In addition, offer guaranteed financial returns where current yields there was a closed portfolio in Hong Kong with a fall below guaranteed levels for a prolonged period.
guaranteed rate of 5.0% compared with the current Reserves are held against the cost of guarantees, yield of 4.1%.
We reduced short-term bonus rates paid calculated by stochastic modelling.
Where local rules to policyholders on certain DPF contracts to manage the require, these reserves are held through policyholder immediate strain on the business.
Any remainder is accounted for as a deduction 45,50 Financial return guarantees Audited 2014 2013 Investment Investment returns returns implied by Current Cost of implied by Current Cost of guarantee yields guarantees guarantee yields guarantees % % US$m % % US$m Capital 0.0 0.0 3.5 81 0.0 0.0 4.4 57 Nominal annual return 0.1 2.0 3.6 3.6 6 0.1 2.0 4.1 4.1 9 51 Nominal annual return 2.1 4.0 3.5 4.1 646 2.1 4.0 4.2 4.4 471 Nominal annual return 4.1 5.0 3.5 4.1 30 4.1 5.0 4.1 4.4 25 52 Real annual return 0.0 6.0 4.7 7.5 14 0.0 6.0 6.4 6.4 13 At 31 December 777 575 For footnotes, see page 202.
In addition to the above, a deduction from PVIF of are stated before allowance for management actions US$53m 2013: US$134m is made in respect of the which may mitigate the effect of changes in market modelled cost of guaranteed annuity options attached rates.
The sensitivities presented allow for adverse to certain unit-linked pension products in Brazil.
changes in policyholder behaviour that may arise in response to changes in market rates.
The following table illustrates the effects of selected interest rate, equity price and foreign exchange rate The effects of -100 basis points parallel shifts in yield scenarios on our profit for the year and the total curves have increased from 2013 to 2014, driven mainly equity of our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
by falling yields and a flattening of the yield curve in France during 2014.
In the low yield environment the Where appropriate, we include the impact of the stress projected cost of options and guarantees described on the PVIF in the results of the sensitivity tests.
The above is particularly sensitive to yield curve movements.
relationship between the profit and total equity and The market value of available-for-sale bonds is also the risk factors is non-linear and, therefore, the results sensitive to yield curve movements hence the larger disclosed should not be extrapolated to measure opposite stresses on equity.
sensitivities to different levels of stress.
The sensitivities Sensitivity of HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to market risk factors Audited 2014 2013 Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on profit total profit total after tax equity after tax equity US$m US$m US$m US$m 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves 290 345 151 199 53 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves 549 214 230 139 10% increase in equity prices 180 180 149 149 10% decrease in equity prices 153 153 129 129 10% increase in US dollar exchange rate compared to all currencies 54 54 21 21 10% decrease in US dollar exchange rate compared to all currencies 54 54 21 21 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 195 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Risk management of insurance operations Credit risk on the profit after tax or to total equity in the case Audited of the held-to-maturity securities.
We calculate the Credit risk can give rise to losses through default and sensitivity based on a one-day movement in credit can lead to volatility in our income statement and spreads over a two-year period.
A confidence level balance sheet figures through movements in credit of 99%, consistent with our Group VaR, is applied.
spreads, principally on the US$53bn 2013: US$51bn Credit quality bond portfolio supporting non-linked contracts and Audited shareholders funds.
The following table presents an analysis of treasury The sensitivity of the profit after tax of our insurance bills, other eligible bills and debt securities within our subsidiaries to the effects on asset values of increases insurance business by measures of credit quality.
in credit spreads was a reduction of US$7m 2013: Only assets supporting liabilities under non-linked US$21m.
The sensitivity of total equity was a reduction insurance and investment contracts and shareholders of US$9m 2013: US$46m.
The sensitivities are relatively funds are included in the table as financial risk on assets small because the vast majority of the debt securities supporting unit-linked liabilities is predominantly borne held by our insurance subsidiaries are classified as either by the policyholder.
84.8% 2013: 83.4% of the assets held to maturity or available for sale, and consequently included in the table are invested in investments rated any changes in the fair value of these financial as strong.
investments, absent impairment, would have no effect For a definition of the five credit quality classifications, see page 207.
Treasury bills, other eligible bills and debt securities in HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries Audited Neither past due nor impaired Strong Good Satisfactory Sub-standard Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Supporting liabilities under non-linked insurance and investment contracts Trading assets debt securities 3 3 Financial assets designated at fair value 2,550 530 214 255 3,549 treasury and other eligible bills 5 35 40 debt securities 2,545 530 214 220 3,509 Financial investments debt securities 38,515 4,312 1,662 200 44,689 41,068 4,842 1,876 455 48,241 54 Supporting shareholders funds Financial assets designated at fair value 214 322 30 69 635 treasury and other eligible bills 16 16 debt securities 214 322 30 53 619 Financial investments debt securities 3,378 196 154 54 3,782 3,592 518 184 123 4,417 45 Total Trading assets debt securities 3 3 Financial assets designated at fair value 2,764 852 244 324 4,184 treasury and other eligible bills 5 51 56 debt securities 2,759 852 244 273 4,128 Financial investments debt securities 41,893 4,508 1,816 254 48,471 At 31 December 2014 44,660 5,360 2,060 578 52,658 Supporting liabilities under non-linked insurance and investment contracts Trading assets debt securities 3 3 Financial assets designated at fair value 2,780 691 224 215 3,910 debt securities 2,780 691 224 215 3,910 Financial investments debt securities 36,113 4,596 1,699 231 42,639 38,8965,2871,923446 46,552 54 Supporting shareholders funds Financial assets designated at fair value 191 298 73 34 596 treasury and other eligible bills 50 50 debt securities 141 298 73 34 546 Financial investments debt securities 3,356 176 139 65 3,736 3,54747421299 4,332 45 Total Trading assets debt securities 3 3 Financial assets designated at fair value 2,971 989 297 249 4,506 treasury and other eligible bills 50 50 debt securities 2,921 989 297 249 4,456 Financial investments debt securities 39,469 4,772 1,838 296 46,375 At 31 December 2013 42,443 5,761 2,135 545 50,884 For footnotes, see page 202.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 196 Credit risk also arises when assumed insurance risk is to third parties under the reinsurance agreements ceded to reinsurers.
The split of liabilities ceded to described in the Appendix to Risk on page 235 is included reinsurers and outstanding reinsurance recoveries, in this table.
analysed by credit quality, is shown below.
Our exposure 45 Reinsurers share of liabilities under insurance contracts Audited Neither past due nor impaired Past due but Strong Good Satisfactory Sub-standard not impaired Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Unit-linked insurance 75 185 260 55 Non-linked insurance 751 11 10 772 At 31 December 2014 826 196 10 1,032 Reinsurance debtors 11 6 21 38 Unit-linked insurance 72 218 290 55 Non-linked insurance 1,103 8 7 1,118 At 31 December 2013 1,175 226 7 1,408 Reinsurance debtors 17 1 10 28 For footnotes, see page 202.
Liquidity risk exposure is borne in conjunction with policyholders Audited for the majority of our business, and wholly borne by The following tables show the expected undiscounted the policyholder in the case of unit-linked business.
cash flows for insurance contract liabilities and the The profile of the expected maturity of the insurance remaining contractual maturity of investment contract contracts at 31 December 2014 remained comparable liabilities at 31 December 2014.
Remaining contractual maturity of investment contract liabilities Audited Liabilities under investment contracts issued 46 by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries Unit-linked Investment Other investment contracts investment contracts with DPF contracts Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Remaining contractual maturity: due within 1 year 151 389 540 due over 1 year to 5 years 133 133 due over 5 years to 10 years 194 194 due after 10 years 766 766 56 undated 1,298 25,068 3,765 30,131 At 31 December 2014 2,542 25,068 4,154 31,764 Remaining contractual maturity: due within 1 year 232 454 686 due over 1 year to 5 years 778 778 due over 5 years to 10 years 852 852 due after 10 years 2,254 2,254 56 undated 5,614 26,427 3,755 35,796 At 31 December 2013 9,730 26,427 4,209 40,366 For footnotes, see page 202.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 197 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Risk management of insurance operations Other material risks mortality and morbidity experience, lapse and surrender Insurance risk rates and, if the policy has a savings element, the Insurance risk is principally measured in terms of performance of the assets held to support the liabilities.
liabilities under the contracts in force.
The following table analyses our life insurance risk A principal risk we face is that, over time, the cost of exposures by geographical region and by type of acquiring and administering a contract, claims and business.
The insurance risk profile and related benefits may exceed the aggregate amount of premiums exposures remain largely consistent with those observed received and investment income.
The cost of claims and at 31 December 2013. benefits can be influenced by many factors, including 46 Analysis of insurance risk liabilities under insurance contracts Audited Latin Europe Asia America Total US$m US$m US$m US$m 55 Non-linked insurance 829 34,261 1,883 36,973 57 Insurance contracts with DPF 367 29,112 29,479 Credit life 56 87 143 Annuities 71 127 1,275 1,473 Other 335 4,935 608 5,878 Unit-linked insurance 1,415 5,729 4,676 11,820 41,57 Investment contracts with DPF 25,068 25,068 Liabilities under insurance contracts at 31 December 2014 27,312 39,990 6,559 73,861 55 Non-linked insurance 1,383 30,554 2,013 33,950 57 Insurance contracts with DPF 380 26,540 26,920 Credit life 130 74 204 Annuities 622 129 1,407 2,158 Other 251 3,811 606 4,668 Unit-linked insurance 3,976 5,065 4,763 13,804 41,57 Investment contracts with DPF 26,427 26,427 Liabilities under insurance contracts at 31 December 2013 31,786 35,619 6,776 74,181 For footnotes, see page 202.
Our most significant life insurance products are in lapse rates typically has a negative effect on profit insurance contracts with DPF issued in Hong Kong, due to the loss of future premium income on the lapsed investment contracts with DPF issued in France and unitpolicies.
However, some contract lapses have a positive linked contracts issued in Latin America, Hong Kong and effect on profit due to the existence of policy surrender the UK.
Brazil, France, Hong Kong and the UK are where we are most sensitive to a change in lapse rates.
Sensitivities to non-economic assumptions Expense rate risk is the exposure to a change in the Audited cost of administering insurance contracts.
To the Policyholder liabilities and PVIF for life manufacturers are extent that increased expenses cannot be passed on to determined by reference to non-economic assumptions policyholders, an increase in expense rates will have a including mortality and or morbidity, lapse rates and negative effect on our profits.
The table below shows the sensitivity of profit and total equity to reasonably possible changes in Sensitivity analysis these non-economic assumptions at that date across all Audited 2014 2013 our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
US$m US$m Mortality and morbidity risk is typically associated Effect on profit after tax and total equity at 31 December with life insurance contracts.
The effect on profit of an 10% increase in mortality and or increase in mortality or morbidity depends on the type morbidity rates 65 76 of business being written.
Our largest exposures to 10% decrease in mortality and or mortality and morbidity risk exist in Brazil, France and morbidity rates 72 79 57 Hong Kong.
10% increase in lapse rates 108 119 57 10% decrease in lapse rates 122 133 Sensitivity to lapse rates depends on the type 10% increase in expense rates 106 101 of contracts being written.
For insurance contracts, 10% decrease in expense rates 106 100 claims are funded by premiums received and income For footnote, see page 202. earned on the investment portfolio supporting the liabilities.
For a portfolio of term assurance, an increase HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 198 Other material risks 1 Page App Tables Page Reputational risk 199 235 Fiduciary risk 200 Pension risk 200 236 The principal plan 200 The principal plan target asset allocation 200 Benefit payments US$m 201 Future developments 201 Defined contribution plans 201 Sustainability risk 201 237 1 Appendix to Risk risk policies and practices.
ensure that the Values are embedded into our Reputational risk Unaudited operations: and Reputational risk is the failure to meet the continuous development and implementation stakeholder expectations as a result of any event, of the Global Standards around financial crime behaviour, action or inaction, either by HSBC compliance, which underpin our businesses.
This itself, our employees or those with whom we includes ensuring globally consistent application of are associated, that might cause stakeholders policies that govern AML and sanctions compliance to form a negative view of HSBC.
Reputational risk relates to perceptions, whether based In July 2014, the new reputational risk and customer on fact or otherwise.
Stakeholders expectations are selection policies were issued which define a consistent constantly changing and thus reputational risk is dynamic and structured approach to managing these risks: and varies between geographies, groups and individuals.
Reputational risk new policy : defines reputational As a global bank, HSBC shows unwavering commitment risk and sets out HSBCs approach to managing it: to operating, and to be seen to be operating, to the high standards we have set for ourselves in every jurisdiction.
Customer selection and business acceptance new Reputational risk might result in financial or non-financial policy : outlines the risk factors to be considered impacts, loss of confidence, adverse effects on our ability when a new customer relationship is identified: to keep and attract customers, or other consequences.
Customer selection and exit management: establishes Any lapse in standards of integrity, compliance, customer the globally sustainable approach to customer service or operating efficiency represents a potential selection and exit management for all accounts and reputational risk.
relationships in all business lines.
This details the A number of measures to address the requirements of the criteria under which escalation or approval is US DPA and otherwise to enhance our AML, sanctions and required: and other regulatory compliance frameworks have been taken Sixth filter: customers operating in high risk and or are ongoing.
These measures, which should also jurisdictions carry particular financial crime risks and serve over time to enhance our reputational risk may require specific approvals, or be considered for management, include the following: an exit, if the relationship exceeds HSBCs global risk simplifying our business through the progressive appetite.
implementation of our Group strategy, including the HSBC has zero tolerance for knowingly engaging in adoption of a global financial crime risk filter, which any business, activity or association where foreseeable should help to standardise our approach to doing reputational damage has not been considered and business in higher risk countries: mitigated.
There must be no barriers to open discussion an increase in reputational risk resources in each and the escalation of issues that could affect the Group region in which we operate and the introduction of negatively.
While there is a level of risk in every aspect of a central case management and tracking process for business activity, appropriate consideration of potential reputational risk and client relationship matters: harm to HSBCs good name must be a part of all business decisions.
the creation of combined reputational risk and client selection committees within the global businesses Detecting and preventing illicit actors access to the with a clear process to escalate and address matters global financial system calls for constant vigilance at the appropriate level: and we will continue to cooperate closely with all governments to achieve success.
This is integral to the continued roll-out of training and communication the execution of our strategy, to HSBC Values and about the HSBC Values Programme that defines the to preserving and enhancing our reputation.
way everyone in the Group should act and seeks to HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 199 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Other material risks The investment strategy of the principal plan is to hold Fiduciary risk Unaudited the majority of assets in bonds, with the remainder in a more diverse range of investments, and includes a Fiduciary risk is the risk to the Group of breaching portfolio of interest rate and inflation swaps in order to our fiduciary duties when we act in a fiduciary reduce interest rate risk and inflation risk see Note 41 in capacity as trustee or investment manager or as the Financial Statements.
The target asset allocation of mandated by law or regulation.
the principal plan at the year-end is shown below.
HSBC A fiduciary duty is one where HSBC holds, manages, and the trustee have developed a general framework oversees or has responsibility for assets for a third party which, over time, will see the plans asset strategy evolve that involves a legal and or regulatory duty to act with to be less risky: this is described in further detail below.
a high standard of care and with good faith.
A fiduciary must make decisions and act in the interests of the third The principal plan target asset allocation party and must place the wants and needs of the client 2014 2013 first, above the needs of the Group.
% % 58 We may be held liable for damages or other penalties Equities 19.4 19.4 Bonds 64.5 64.5 caused by failure to act in accordance with these duties.
59 Alternative assets 10.6 10.6 Fiduciary duties may also arise in other circumstances, Property 5.5 5.5 such as when we act as an agent for a principal, unless 60 Cash the fiduciary duties are specifically excluded e. g. under At 31 December 100.0 100.0 the agency appointment contract.
Our principal fiduciary businesses the designated businesses have developed fiduciary risk appetite The latest actuarial valuation of the principal plan was statements for their various fiduciary roles and have put made as at 31 December 2011 by C G Singer, Fellow of in place key indicators to monitor their related risks.
the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, of Towers Watson Limited.
At that date, the market value of the plans Pension risk assets was 18bn US$28bn including assets relating to Audited both the defined benefit and defined contribution plans, We operate a number of defined benefit and and additional voluntary contributions.
The market defined contribution pension plans throughout value of the plan assets represented 100% of the amount the world.
The majority of pension risk arises expected to be required, on the basis of the assumptions from the Groups defined benefit plans of which adopted, to provide the benefits accrued to members the largest is the HSBC Bank UK Pension after allowing for expected future increases in earnings Scheme the principal plan.
under the projected unit method.
There was therefore During 2014, a new global pension risk framework was no resulting surplus deficit and hence no recovery plan established, with accompanying new global policies on was required.
the management of risks related to defined benefit and The expected cash flows from the principal plan were defined contribution plans.
In addition, a new Global projected by reference to the Retail Price Index RPI Pensions Oversight Committee was established to swap break-even curve at 31 December 2011.
Salary oversee the running of all pension plans sponsored by increases were assumed to be 0.5% per annum above HSBC around the world.
RPI and inflationary pension increases, subject to a At 31 December 2014, the Groups aggregate defined minimum of 0% and a maximum of 5% maximum of 3% benefit pension plan obligation was US$42bn and the per annum in respect of service accrued since 1 July net asset was US$2.7bn 2013: US$40bn and US$0.1bn, 2009, were assumed to be in line with RPI.
The increase in the net asset was mainly projected cash flows were discounted at the Libor due to the increase in the principal plans assets swap curve at 31 December 2011 plus a margin for the exceeding the increase in its benefit obligation.
Of the expected return on the investment strategy of 160bps Group total amounts, the principal plan contributed per annum.
The mortality experience of the principal US$30bn to the defined benefit obligation and US$4.8bn plans pensioners over the six-year period 2006-2011 to the net asset.
The principal plan is the largest was analysed and, on the basis of this analysis, the contributor to pension risk in the Group.
mortality assumptions were set, based on the SAPS S1 series of tables adjusted to reflect the pensioner The principal plan experience.
Allowance was made for future improvements Audited to mortality rates in line with the Continuous Mortality The principal plan is overseen by a corporate trustee Investigation core projections with a long-run who has fiduciary responsibility for the operation of the improvement rate set at 2% for males and 1.5% for pension scheme.
The principal plan comprises a defined females.
The benefits expected to be payable from the benefit section and a defined contribution section.
defined benefit plan from 2015 are shown in the chart Unless stated otherwise, this narrative relates to the below.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 200 Future benefit payments US$m benefit section members.
Since April 2013, HSBC has paid contributions at the rate of 43% of pensionable 1,800 salaries less member contributions.
Contribution levels 1,600 will be reviewed as part of the next actuarial valuation, 1,400 which has an effective date of 31 December 2014.
The 1,200 results of this valuation are expected to be included in 1,000 the Annual Report and Accounts 2015.
800 600 Future developments 400 Unaudited 200 Future service accrual for active members of the defined 0 benefit section will cease with effect from 30 June 2015.
All active members of the defined benefit section will become members of the defined contribution section As part of the 31 December 2011 valuation, calculations from 1 July 2015, and their accrued defined benefit were also made of the amount of assets that might be pensions based on service to 30 June 2015 will continue needed to meet the liabilities if the principal plan was to be linked to final salary on retirement underpinned discontinued and the members benefits bought out by increases in CPI.
The defined benefit service cost with an insurance company although in practice this will therefore reduce to zero from 1 July 2015 and the may not be possible for a plan of this size or the Trustee defined contribution service cost will increase.
continued to run the plan without the support of HSBC.
Defined contribution plans The amount required under this approach was estimated to be 26bn US$41bn as at 31 December 2011.
In Our global strategy is to move from defined benefit arriving at this estimation, a more prudent assumption pension provisions to defined contribution, dependent about future mortality was made than for the on local legislative requirements and emerging practice.
assessment of the ongoing position and it was assumed In defined contribution pension plans, the sponsor that the Trustee would alter the investment strategy to contributions are known, while the ultimate benefit be an appropriately matched portfolio of UK government will vary, typically with investment returns achieved by bonds.
An explicit allowance for expenses was also employee investment choices.
While the market risk of included.
defined contribution plans is significantly less than that of defined benefit plans, the Bank is still exposed to HSBC and the trustee have developed a general operational and reputational risk.
framework which, over time, will see the principal plans asset strategy evolve to be less risky and further aligned Sustainability risk to the expected future cash-flows, referred to as the Unaudited Target Matching Portfolio TMP.
The TMP would Assessing the environmental and social impacts therefore contain sufficient assets, the majority of which of providing finance to our customers is integral will be bond-like in nature, which are more closely to our overall risk management processes.
aligned to the liability profile.
Progress towards the TMP can be achieved by asset returns in excess of that In 2014, we issued new policies on forestry, agricultural assumed and or additional funding.
In 2013, HSBC commodities, World Heritage Sites and Ramsar agreed to make general framework contributions of Wetlands, following an extensive internal and external 64m US$100m in each of the calendar years 2013, review of our previous forestry policy.
The results of 2014 and 2015 as well as 128m US$200m in 2016. two independent reviews into the content and Further contributions have been agreed to be made in implementation of our previous policy were published future years, which are linked to the continued on www.
implementation of the general framework.
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding reputational risk, pension risk and sustainability risk is provided HSBC Bank is also making contributions to the principal in the Appendix to Risk on page 235. plan in respect of the accrual of benefits of defined HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 201 2015 2021 2027 2033 2039 2045 2051 2057 2063 2069 2075 2081 2087 2093 2099 2105 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Footnotes Footnotes to Risk Credit risk 1 From 1 January 2014, non-trading reverse repos and repos are presented as separate lines in the balance sheet.
Previously, nontrading reverse repos were included within Loans and advances to banks and Loans and advances to customers and non-trading repos were included within Deposits by banks and Customer accounts.
Comparative data have been re-presented accordingly.
2 At 31 December 2014, the credit quality of financial guarantees and similar contracts was: US$17bn strong, US$16bn good, US$12bn satisfactory, and US$2bn sub-standard.
3 The amount of the loan commitments reflects, where relevant, the expected level of take-up of pre-approved loan offers made by mailshots to personal customers.
In addition to those amounts, there is a further maximum possible exposure to credit risk of US$71bn 2013: US$34bn, reflecting the full take-up of loan commitments.
The take-up of such offers is generally at modest levels.
At 31 December 2014, the credit quality of loan and other credit-related commitments was: US$322bn strong, US$191bn good, US$127bn satisfactory, US$10bn sub-standard and US$0.8bn impaired.
4 From 1 January 2014, the geographical region Asia replaced the geographical regions previously reported as Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific see Note 23 on the Financial Statements for further details.
Comparative data have been re-presented to reflect this change.
5 Financial includes loans and advances to banks.
6 First lien residential mortgages include Hong Kong Government Home Ownership Scheme loans of US$3.4bn at 31 December 2014 2013: US$3.2bn.
Where disclosed, earlier comparatives were 2012: US$3.2bn: 2011: US$3.3bn: 2010: US$3.5bn.
7 Other personal lending includes second lien mortgages and other property-related lending.
8 Other commercial loans and advances include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
9 Impairment allowances are not reported for financial instruments, for which the carrying amount is reduced directly for impairment and not through the use of an allowance account.
10 Impairment is not measured for assets held in trading portfolios or designated at fair value as assets in such portfolios are managed according to movements in fair value, and the fair value movement is taken directly to the income statement.
Consequently, we report all such balances under Neither past due nor impaired.
11 Loans and advances to customers includes asset-backed securities that have been externally rated as strong 2014: US$1.2bn: 2013: US$1.7bn, good 2014: US$256m: 2013: US$255m, satisfactory 2014: US$332m: 2013: US$200m, sub-standard 2014: US$94m: 2013: US$283m and impaired 2014: US$128m: 2013: US$252m.
12 Collectively assessed impairment allowances are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the allowances or provisions.
13 Included within Exchange and other movements is US$0.4bn of impairment allowances reclassified to held for sale 2013: US$0.2bn.
14 Of the US$2,724m 2013: US$3,580m of renegotiated loans, US$608m 2013: US$716m were neither past due nor impaired, US$1m 2013: US$52m was past due but not impaired and US$2,115m 2013: US$2,812m were impaired.
15 French Banking Federation Master Agreement Relating to Transactions on Forward Financial Instruments plus CSA equivalent.
16 The German Master Agreement for Financial Derivative Transactions.
17 HSBC Finance lending is shown on a management basis and includes loans transferred to HSBC USA Inc. which are managed by HSBC Finance.
18 Property acquired through foreclosure is initially recognised at the lower of the carrying amount of the loan or its fair value less estimated costs to sell initial foreclosed property carrying amount.
The average gain loss on sale of foreclosed properties is calculated as cash proceeds less the initial foreclosed properties carrying amount divided by the unpaid loan principal balance prior to write-down excluding any accrued finance income plus certain other ancillary disbursements that, by law, are reimbursable from the cash proceeds e. g. real estate tax advances and were incurred prior to our taking title to the property.
This ratio represents the portion of our total loss on foreclosed properties that occurred after we took title to the property.
19 The average total gain loss on foreclosed properties includes both the gain loss on sale of the foreclosed property as discussed in footnote 18 and the cumulative write-downs recognised on the loans up to the time we took title to the property.
20 Included in this category are loans of US$1.5bn 2013: US$1.9bn that have been re-aged once and were less than 60 days past due at the point of re-age.
These loans are not classified as impaired following re-age due to the overall expectation that these customers will perform on the original contractual terms of their borrowing in the future.
21 Currency translation is the effect of translating the results of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year at the average rates of exchange applicable in the current year.
22 Negative numbers are favourable: positive numbers are unfavourable.
23 Carrying amount of the net principal exposure.
24 Total includes holdings of ABSs issued by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.
Liquidity and funding 25 The most favourable metrics are smaller advances to core funding and larger stressed one-month and three-month coverage ratios.
26 The HSBC UK entity shown comprises four legal entities: HSBC Bank plc including all overseas branches, and SPEs consolidated by HSBC Bank plc for Financial Statement purposes, Marks and Spencer Financial Services Limited, HSBC Private Bank UK Ltd and HSBC Trust Company UK Limited, managed as a single operating entity, in line with the application of UK liquidity regulation as agreed with the UK PRA.
27 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation represents the Group in Hong Kong, including its overseas branches.
Each branch is monitored and controlled for liquidity and funding risk purposes as a stand-alone operating entity.
28 The HSBC USA principal entity shown represents the HSBC USA Inc consolidated group: predominantly HSBC USA Inc and HSBC Bank USA, NA.
The HSBC USA Inc consolidated group is managed as a single operating entity.
29 The total shown for other principal HSBC operating entities represents the combined position of all the other operating entities overseen directly by the Risk Management Meeting of the GMB.
30 Estimated liquidity value represents the expected realisable value of assets prior to management assumed haircuts.
31 The undrawn balance for the five largest committed liquidity facilities provided to customers other than facilities to conduits.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 202 32 The undrawn balance for the total of all committed liquidity facilities provided to the largest market sector, other than facilities to conduits.
33 The residual contractual maturity profile of the balance sheet is set out on in Note 31 on the Financial Statements.
Market risk 34 Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from the market-making and warehousing of customer-derived positions.
35 Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio containing different risk types.
It represents the reduction in unsystematic market risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types, for example, interest rate, equity and foreign exchange, together in one portfolio.
It is measured as the difference between the sum of the VaR by individual risk type and the combined total VaR.
A negative number represents the benefit of portfolio diversification.
As the maximum occurs on different days for different risk types, it is not meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification benefit for these measures.
For presentation purposes, portfolio diversification within the trading portfolio includes VaR-based RNIV.
36 The total VaR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects.
37 Investments in private equity are primarily made through managed funds that are subject to limits on the amount of investment.
Potential new commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical concentrations remain within acceptable levels for the portfolio as a whole.
Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the valuation of the investments within the portfolio.
38 Investments held to facilitate ongoing business include holdings in government-sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges.
39 Instead of assuming that all interest rates move together, we group our interest rate exposures into currency blocs whose rates are considered likely to move together.
See Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Risk management of insurance operations 40 Other includes term assurance, credit life insurance, universal life insurance and remaining non-life insurance.
41 Although investment contracts with discretionary participation features DPF are financial investments, HSBC continues to account for them as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4.
42 The Other assets column shows shareholder assets as well as assets and liabilities classified as held for sale.
The majority of the assets for insurance businesses classified as held for sale are reported as Other assets and investment properties and totalled US$6.8bn at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: nil.
The majority of these assets were debt and equity securities.
All liabilities for insurance businesses classified as held for sale are reported in Other liabilities and totalled US$6.8bn at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: nil.
The majority of these liabilities were liabilities under insurance contracts and liabilities under investment contracts.
43 Present value of in-force long-term insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF.
44 Deferred tax includes the deferred tax liabilities arising on recognition of PVIF.
45 Does not include associated insurance company SABB Takaful Company or joint venture insurance company Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited.
46 HSBC has no insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in the Middle East and North Africa or North America.
47 Comprise unit-linked life insurance contracts and linked long-term investment contracts.
48 Comprise non-linked insurance contracts and non-linked long-term investment contracts.
49 Comprise mainly loans and advances to banks, cash and intercompany balances with other non-insurance legal entities.
50 The cost of guarantees figure presented comprises the modelled cost of guarantees under products manufactured by our insurance subsidiaries, including both the cost of guarantees reserved for through policyholder liabilities and the amount accounted for as a deduction to PVIF.
This is considered to provide more relevant information than the total liabilities to policyholders established for guaranteed products manufactured by our insurance subsidiaries as disclosed in prior periods.
51 A block of contracts in France with guaranteed nominal annual returns in the range 1.25%-3.72% are reported entirely in the 2.1%- 4.0% category in line with the average guaranteed return of 2.7% offered to policyholders by these contracts.
52 Real annual return guarantees provide the policyholder a guaranteed return in excess of the rate of inflation, and are supported by inflation-linked debt securities with yields that are also expressed in real terms.
53 Where a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve would result in a negative interest rate, the effects on profit after tax and total equity have been calculated using a minimum rate of 0%.
54 Shareholders funds comprise solvency and unencumbered assets.
55 Non-linked insurance includes remaining non-life business.
56 In most cases, policyholders have the option to terminate their contracts at any time and receive the surrender values of their policies.
These may be significantly lower than the amounts shown.
57 Insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF can give policyholders the contractual right to receive, as a supplement to their guaranteed benefits, additional benefits that may be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits, but whose amount and timing are determined by HSBC.
These additional benefits are contractually based on the performance of a specified pool of contracts or assets, or the profit of the company issuing the contracts.
Pension risk 58 In 2014, option overlay strategies which are expected to improve the risk return profile of the equity allocation were implemented.
59 Alternative assets includes ABSs, MBSs and infrastructure assets.
60 Whilst there is no target cash allocation, the amount of cash is expected to vary between 0-5% depending upon the liquidity requirements of the scheme, which will affect the actual allocation of bonds correspondingly.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 203 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Appendix to Risk Policies and practices Appendix to Risk Risk policies and practices This appendix describes the significant policies and practices employed by HSBC in managing our credit risk, liquidity and funding, market risk, operational risk including compliance risk, legal risk and fiduciary risk, insurance risk, reputational risk, pension risk and sustainability risk.
Risk governance Unaudited Our strong risk governance reflects the importance placed by the Board and the Group Risk Committee GRC on shaping the Groups risk strategy and managing risks effectively.
It is supported by a clear policy framework of risk ownership, a risk appetite process through which the types and levels of risk that we are prepared to accept in executing our strategy are articulated and monitored, performance scorecards cascaded from the GMB that align business and risk objectives, and the accountability of all staff for identifying, assessing and managing risks within the scope of their assigned responsibilities.
This personal accountability, reinforced by the governance structure, mandatory learning and our approach to remuneration, helps to foster a disciplined and constructive culture of risk management and control throughout HSBC.
The executive and non-executive risk governance structures and their interactions are set out in the following table.
Each major operating subsidiary has established a board committee with non-executive responsibility for oversight of risk-related matters and an executive committee with responsibility for risk-related matters.
Governance structure for the management of risk Authority Membership Responsibilities include: Board Executive and non-executive Directors Approving risk appetite, strategy and performance targets for the Group Approving appointment of chief risk officers of subsidiary companies Encouraging a strong risk governance culture which shapes the Groups attitude to risk GRC Independent non-executive Directors Advising the Board on: risk appetite and alignment with strategy alignment of remuneration with risk appetite through advice to the Group Remuneration Committee risks associated with proposed strategic acquisitions and disposals Overseeing high-level risk related matters Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal controls other than over financial reporting Overseeing the maintenance and development of a supportive culture in relation to the management of risk Financial System Non-executive Directors, including the Overseeing controls and procedures designed to identify areas of Vulnerabilities Committee Chairman of the Group exposure to financial crime or system abuse Remuneration Committee, and coOverseeing matters relating to anti-money laundering, sanctions, opted non-director members terrorist financing and proliferation financing Reviewing policies and procedures to ensure continuing obligations to regulatory and law enforcement agencies are met Conduct & Values Independent non-executive Directors Ensuring that in the conduct of its business, HSBC treats all Committee stakeholders fairly Advising the Board on HSBC policies, procedures and standards to ensure that the Group conducts business responsibly and consistently adheres to the HSBC Values HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 204 Authority Membership Responsibilities include: Risk Management Meeting Group Chief Risk Officer Formulating high-level global risk policy of the GMB Chief Legal Officer Exercising delegated risk management authority Group Chief Executive Overseeing implementation of risk appetite and controls Group Finance Director Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate All other Group Managing Directors mitigating action Promoting a supportive Group culture in relation to risk management and conduct Implementing Global Standards throughout the Group Global Risk Management Group Chief Risk Officer Supporting the Risk Management Meeting and the Group Chief Board Chief Risk Officers of HSBCs global Risk Officer in providing strategic direction for the Global Risk businesses and regions function, setting priorities and overseeing their execution Heads of Global Risk sub-functions Overseeing consistent approach to accountability for, and mitigation of, risk across the Global Risk function Global Business Risk Global Business Chief Risk Officer Forward looking assessment of changes in Global Business Management Global Business Chief Executive activities or the markets in which it operates, analysing the Committees Global Business Chief Financial Officer possible risk impact and taking appropriate action Heads of Global Risk sub-functions, as Overseeing the implementation of Global Business risk appetite appropriate and controls Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate mitigating actions Promoting a strong risk culture Regional Risk Management Regional Chief Risk Officer Formulating regional specific risk policy Committees Regional Chief Executive Officer Overseeing the implementation of regional risk appetite and Regional Chief Financial Officer controls Regional Global Business Chief Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate Heads of Global Risk sub-functions, mitigating actions as appropriate Promoting a strong risk culture Subsidiary board Independent non-executive directors Providing reports to the GRC or intermediate risk committee committees responsible and or HSBC employees with no on risk-related matters and internal controls other than over for risk-related matters line or functional responsibility for financial reporting of relevant subsidiaries or businesses, as and global business risk the activities of the relevant requested committees subsidiary or global business, as appropriate The governance framework also defines the required structure of committees for Risk sub-functions, stress testing and other key areas at Group, global business, regional and country level.
Risk appetite Unaudited Our risk appetite framework is underpinned by the following core characteristics.
These are applied to define the risk appetite statements on Group-wide, global business and regional levels.
Strong capital position: defined by a strong CET1 ratio and overall capital structure, both from a regulatory and internal perspective, which is not overly leveraged: Conservative liquidity management: defined by a diversified funding structure and a conservative discipline whereby subsidiaries plan their contingency liquidity requirements on the assumption that there is no lender of last resort, either in the form of local supervisory intervention or via support from HSBC Holdings: Strong balance sheet: core to HSBCs philosophy, generating a resilient stream of earnings: Strong brand: our brand the worlds leading international bank is of paramount importance as is the Groups reputation and the quality of its business ethics: Risk must be commensurate with returns: returns should be generated in line with the risk taken and in alignments with strategic plans and risk management policies: Robust Group structure of separate legal entities: the legal entity structure provides the potential for firewalls to mitigate liquidity and capital contagion in crisis situations: The global business mix should produce sustainable long-term earnings growth: our global businesses should be suitably diversified to provide a stream of non-volatile, predictable earnings: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 205 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Appendix to Risk Policies and practices Risk diversification: the globally diverse nature of our activities produces significant risk diversification benefits which must be closely assessed on an ongoing basis and reflected in our capital requirements: and Financial crime risk: our overarching approach and appetite to financial crime risk is that the Group will not tolerate operating without systems and controls in place aimed at preventing and detecting financial crime and will not conduct business with individuals or entities we believe are engaged in illicit behaviour.
Credit risk Credit risk management Audited The role of an independent credit control unit is fulfilled by the Global Risk function.
Credit approval authorities are delegated by the Board to certain executive officers of HSBC Holdings.
Similar credit approval authorities are delegated by the boards of subsidiary companies to executive officers of the relevant subsidiaries.
In each major subsidiary, a Chief Risk Officer reports to the local Chief Executive Officer on credit-related issues, while maintaining a direct functional reporting line to the Group Chief Risk Officer in Global Risk.
Details of the roles and responsibilities of the credit risk management function and the policies and procedures for managing credit risk are set out below.
There were no significant changes in 2014.
The high-level oversight and management of credit risk provided globally by the Credit Risk function in Global Risk to formulate Group credit policy.
Compliance, subject to approved dispensations, is mandatory for all operating companies which must develop local credit policies consistent with Group policies: to guide operating companies on our appetite for credit risk exposure to specified market sectors, activities and banking products and controlling exposures to certain higher-risk sectors: to undertake an independent review and objective assessment of risk.
Global Risk assesses all commercial non-bank credit facilities and exposures over designated limits, prior to the facilities being committed to customers or transactions being undertaken: to monitor the performance and management of portfolios across the Group: to control exposure to sovereign entities, banks and other financial institutions, as well as debt securities which are not held solely for the purpose of trading: to set Group policy on large credit exposures, ensuring that concentrations of exposure by counterparty, sector or geography do not become excessive in relation to our capital base, and remain within internal and regulatory limits: to control our cross-border exposures see page 207 : to maintain and develop our risk rating framework and systems, the governance of which is under the general oversight of the Group Model Oversight Committee MOC.
The Group MOC meets bi-monthly and reports to the Risk Management Meeting.
It is chaired by the risk function and its membership is drawn from Global Risk and relevant global functions or businesses: to report to the Risk Management Meeting, the GRC and the Board on high risk portfolios, risk concentrations, country limits and cross-border exposures, large impaired accounts, impairment allowances, stress testing results and recommendations and retail portfolio performance: and to act on behalf of HSBC Holdings as the primary interface, for credit-related issues, with the Bank of England, the PRA, local regulators, rating agencies, analysts and counterparts in major banks and non-bank financial institutions.
Principal objectives of our credit risk management to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible lending and a robust risk policy and control framework: to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining, implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk appetite under actual and scenario conditions: and to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks, their costs and their mitigation.
Concentration of exposure Audited Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of counterparties or exposures have comparable economic characteristics or such counterparties are engaged in similar activities or operate in the same geographical areas or industry sectors so that their collective ability to meet contractual obligations is uniformly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions.
We use a number of controls and measures to minimise undue concentration of exposure in our portfolios across industry, country and global business.
These include portfolio and counterparty limits, approval and review controls, and stress testing.
Wrong-way risk occurs when a counterpartys exposures are adversely correlated with its credit quality.
There are two types of wrong-way risk: general wrong-way risk occurs when the probability of counterparty default is positively correlated with general risk factors such as, for example, where the counterparty is resident and or incorporated in a higher-risk country and seeks to sell a non-domestic currency in exchange for its home currency: and HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 206 specific wrong-way risk occurs when the exposure to a particular counterparty is positively correlated with the probability of counterparty default, such as a reverse repo on the counterpartys own bonds.
It is HSBC policy that specific wrong-way transactions are approved on a case-by-case basis.
We use a range of tools to monitor and control wrong-way risk, including requiring the business to obtain prior approval before undertaking wrong-way risk transactions outside pre-agreed guidelines.
Cross-border exposures We assess the vulnerability of countries to foreign currency payment restrictions, including economic and political factors, when considering impairment allowances on cross-border exposures.
Impairment allowances are assessed in respect of all qualifying exposures within vulnerable countries unless these exposures and the inherent risks are: performing, trade-related and of less than one years maturity: mitigated by acceptable security cover which is, other than in exceptional cases, held outside the country concerned: in the form of securities held for trading purposes for which a liquid and active market exists, and which are measured at fair value daily: and performing facilities with a principal excluding security of US$1m or below and or with maturity dates shorter than three months.
Credit quality of financial instruments Audited Our credit risk rating systems and processes differentiate exposures in order to highlight those with greater risk factors and higher potential severity of loss.
In the case of individually significant accounts that are predominantly within our wholesale businesses, risk ratings are reviewed regularly and any amendments are implemented promptly.
Within our retail businesses, risk is assessed and managed using a wide range of risk and pricing models to generate portfolio data.
Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings based approach under the Basel framework adopted by the Group to support calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital requirement.
Our credit quality classifications are defined below.
Special attention is paid to problem exposures in order to accelerate remedial action.
When appropriate, our operating companies use specialist units to provide customers with support to help them avoid default wherever possible.
Group and regional Credit Review and Risk Identification teams regularly review exposures and processes in order to provide an independent, rigorous assessment of credit risk across the Group, reinforce secondary risk management controls and share best practice.
Internal audit, as a tertiary control function, focuses on risks with a global perspective and on the design and effectiveness of primary and secondary controls, carrying out oversight audits via the sampling of global and regional control frameworks, themed audits of key or emerging risks and project audits to assess major change initiatives.
The five credit quality classifications defined below each encompass a range of granular internal credit rating grades assigned to wholesale and retail lending businesses and the external ratings attributed by external agencies to debt securities.
Credit quality classification Unaudited Debt securities Wholesale lending and other bills and derivatives Retail lending 12 month External Internal probability of Internal Expected 1 credit rating credit rating default % credit rating loss % Quality classification 2 3 Strong A and above CRR 1 to CRR2 0 0.169 EL 1 to EL2 0 0.999 Good BBB to BBB CRR3 0.170 0.740 EL3 1.000 4.999 Satisfactory BB to B and unrated CRR4 to CRR5 0.741 4.914 EL4 to EL5 5.000 19.999 Sub-standard Bto C CRR6 to CRR8 4.915 99.999 EL6 to EL8 20.000 99.999 4 Impaired Default CRR9 to CRR10 100 EL9 to EL10 100 or defaulted 1 We observe the disclosure convention that, in addition to those classified as EL9 to EL10, retail accounts classified EL1 to EL8 that are delinquent by 90 days or more are considered impaired, unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired see page 136, Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments.
4 The EL percentage is derived through a combination of PD and LGD, and may exceed 100% in circumstances where the LGD is above 100% reflecting the cost of recoveries.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 207 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Appendix to Risk Policies and practices Quality classification definitions Strong exposures demonstrate a strong capacity to meet financial commitments, with negligible or low probability of default and or low levels of expected loss.
Retail accounts operate within product parameters and only exceptionally show any period of delinquency.
Good exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate a good capacity to meet financial commitments, with low default risk.
Retail accounts typically show only short periods of delinquency, with any losses expected to be minimal following the adoption of recovery processes.
Satisfactory exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate an average to fair capacity to meet financial commitments, with moderate default risk.
Retail accounts typically show only short periods of delinquency, with any losses expected to be minor following the adoption of recovery processes.
Sub-standard exposures require varying degrees of special attention and default risk is of greater concern.
Retail portfolio segments show longer delinquency periods of generally up to 90 days past due and or expected losses are higher due to a reduced ability to mitigate these through security realisation or other recovery processes.
Impaired exposures have been assessed as impaired.
These include wholesale exposures where the bank considers that either the customer is unlikely to pay its credit obligations in full, without recourse by the bank to the actions such as realising security if held, or the customer is past due more than 90 days on any material credit obligation: retail accounts include loans and advances classified as EL9 to EL10, and for those classified EL1 to EL8 they are greater than 90 days past due unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired: and renegotiated loans that have met the requirements to be disclosed as impaired and have not yet met the criteria to be returned to the unimpaired portfolio see below.
The customer risk rating CRR 10-grade scale summarises a more granular underlying 23-grade scale of obligor probability of default PD.
All HSBC customers are rated using the 10 or 23-grade scale, depending on the degree of sophistication of the Basel II approach adopted for the exposure.
Each CRR band is associated with an external rating grade by reference to long-run default rates for that grade, represented by the average of issuer-weighted historical default rates.
This mapping between internal and external ratings is indicative and may vary over time.
The expected loss EL 10-grade scale for retail business summarises a more granular underlying EL scale for this customer segment: this combines obligor and facility product risk factors in a composite measure.
For debt securities and certain other financial instruments, external ratings have been aligned to the five quality classifications based upon the mapping of related CRR to external credit grade.
The most recent mapping review resulted in B being mapped to CRR5.
Accordingly B ratings are now mapped to Satisfactory.
This represents a change in disclosure mapping unrelated to changes in counterparty creditworthiness.
Renegotiated loans and forbearance Audited A range of forbearance strategies is employed in order to improve the management of customer relationships, maximise collection opportunities and, if possible, avoid default, foreclosure or repossession.
They include extended payment terms, a reduction in interest or principal repayments, approved external debt management plans, debt consolidations, the deferral of foreclosures and other forms of loan modifications and re-ageing.
Our policies and practices are based on criteria which enable local management to judge whether repayment is likely to continue.
These typically provide a customer with terms and conditions that are more favourable than those provided initially.
Loan forbearance is only granted in situations where the customer has showed a willingness to repay their loan and is expected to be able to meet the revised obligations.
Identifying renegotiated loans The contractual terms of a loan may be modified for a number of reasons including changing market conditions, customer retention and other factors not related to the current or potential credit deterioration of a customer.
When the contractual payment terms of a loan are modified because we have significant concerns about the borrowers ability to meet contractual payments when due, these loans are classified as renegotiated loans.
For retail lending our credit risk management policy sets out restrictions on the number and frequency of renegotiations, the minimum period an account must have been opened before any renegotiation can be considered and the number of qualifying payments that must be received.
The application of this policy varies according to the nature of the market, the product and the management of customer relationships through the occurrence of exceptional events.
When considering whether there is significant concern regarding a customers ability to meet contractual loan repayments when due, we assess the customers delinquency status, account behaviour, repayment history, current financial situation and continued ability to repay.
If the customer is not meeting contractual repayments or it is evident that they will be unable to do so without the renegotiation, there will be a significant concern regarding their ability to meet contractual payments, and the loan will be disclosed as impaired, unless the concession granted is insignificant as discussed below.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 208 For loan restructurings in wholesale lending, indicators of significant concerns regarding a borrowers ability to pay include: the debtor is currently in default on any of its debt: the debtor has declared or is in the process of declaring bankruptcy or entering into a similar process: there is significant doubt as to whether the debtor will continue to be a going concern: currently, the debtor has securities that have been delisted, are in the process of being delisted, or are under threat of being delisted from an exchange as a result of trading or financial difficulties: based on estimates and projections that only encompass current business capabilities, the Group forecasts that the debtors entity-specific cash flows will be insufficient to service the debt both interest and principal in accordance with the contractual terms of the existing agreement through maturity.
In this instance, actual payment default may not yet have occurred: and absent the modification, the debtor cannot obtain funds from sources other than its existing creditors at an effective interest rate equal to the current market interest rate for similar debt for a non-distressed debtor.
Where the modification of a loans contractual payment terms represents a concession for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers financial difficulty, and is a concession that we would not otherwise consider, then the renegotiated loan is disclosed as impaired in accordance with our impaired loan disclosure convention described in more detail on page 212, unless the concession is insignificant and there are no other indicators of impairment.
Insignificant concessions are primarily restricted to our CML portfolio in HSBC Finance, where loans which are in the early stages of delinquency less than 60 days delinquent and typically have the equivalent of two payments deferred for the first time, are excluded from our impaired loan classification, as the contractual payment deferrals are deemed to be insignificant compared with payments due on the loan as a whole.
For details of HSBC Finances loan renegotiation programmes and portfolios, see pages 154 and 155. Credit quality classification of renegotiated loans Audited Under IFRSs, an entity is required to assess whether there is objective evidence that financial assets are impaired at the end of each reporting period.
A loan is impaired and an impairment allowance is recognised when there is objective evidence of a loss event that has an effect on the cash flows of the loan which can be reliably estimated.
Granting a concession to a customer that we would not otherwise consider, as a result of their financial difficulty, is objective evidence of impairment and impairment losses are measured accordingly.
A renegotiated loan is presented as impaired when: there has been a change in contractual cash flows as a result of a concession which the lender would otherwise not consider, and it is probable that without the concession, the borrower would be unable to meet contractual payment obligations in full.
This presentation applies unless the concession is insignificant and there are no other indicators of impairment.
The renegotiated loan will continue to be disclosed as impaired until there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a significant reduction in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows, and there are no other indicators of impairment.
For loans that are assessed for impairment on a collective basis, the evidence typically comprises a history of payment performance against the original or revised terms, as appropriate to the circumstances.
For loans that are assessed for impairment on an individual basis, all available evidence is assessed on a case-by-case basis.
For retail lending the minimum period of payment performance required depends on the nature of loans in the portfolio, but is typically not less than six months.
Where portfolios have more significant levels of forbearance activity, such as that undertaken by HSBC Finance, the minimum repayment performance period required may be substantially more for further details on HSBC Finance see page 153.
Payment performance periods are monitored to ensure they remain appropriate to the levels of recidivism observed within the portfolio.
These performance periods are in addition to a minimum of two payments which must be received within a 60-day period for the customer to initially qualify for the renegotiation in the case of HSBC Finance, in certain circumstances, for example where debt has been restructured in bankruptcy proceedings, fewer or no qualifying payments may be required.
The qualifying payments are required in order to demonstrate that the renegotiated terms are sustainable for the borrower.
For corporate and commercial loans, which are individually assessed for impairment and where non-monthly payments are more commonly agreed, the history of payment performance will depend on the underlying structure of payments agreed as part of the restructuring.
Renegotiated loans are classified as unimpaired where the renegotiation has resulted from significant concern about a borrowers ability to meet their contractual payment terms but the renegotiated terms are based on current market rates and contractual cash flows are expected to be collected in full following the renegotiation.
Unimpaired renegotiated loans also include previously impaired renegotiated loans that have demonstrated satisfactory performance over a period of time or have been assessed based on all available evidence as having no remaining indicators of impairment.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 209 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Appendix to Risk Policies and practices Loans that have been identified as renegotiated retain this designation until maturity or derecognition.
When a loan is restructured as part of a forbearance strategy and the restructuring results in derecognition of the existing loan, such as in some debt consolidations, the new loan is disclosed as renegotiated.
When determining whether a loan that is restructured should be derecognised and a new loan recognised, we consider the extent to which the changes to the original contractual terms result in the renegotiated loan, considered as a whole, being a substantially different financial instrument.
The following are examples of circumstances that, individually or in aggregate, are likely to result in this test being met and derecognition accounting being applied: an uncollateralised loan becomes fully collateralised: the addition or removal of  provisions: removal or addition of conversion features attached to the loan agreement: a change in the currency in which the principal or interest is denominated: a change in the liquidation preference or ranking of the instrument: or the contract is altered in any other manner so that the terms under the new or modified contract are substantially different from those under the original contract.
The following are examples of factors that we consider may indicate that the revised loan is a substantially different financial instrument, but are unlikely to be conclusive in themselves: changes in guarantees or loan covenants provided: less significant changes to collateral arrangements: or the addition of repayment provisions or prepayment premium clauses.
Renegotiated loans and recognition of impairment allowances Audited For retail lending, renegotiated loans are segregated from other parts of the loan portfolio for collective impairment assessment to reflect the higher rates of losses often encountered in these segments.
When empirical evidence indicates an increased propensity to default and higher losses on such accounts, such as for re-aged loans in the US, the use of rollrate methodology ensures these factors are taken into account when calculating impairment allowances by applying roll rates specifically calculated on the pool of loans subject to forbearance.
When the portfolio size is small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll-rate methodology, a basic formulaic approach based on historical loss rate experience is used.
As a result of our roll-rate methodology, we recognise collective impairment allowances on homogeneous groups of loans, including renegotiated loans, where there is historical evidence that there is a likelihood that loans in these groups will progress through the various stages of delinquency, and ultimately prove irrecoverable as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date.
This treatment applies irrespective of whether or not those loans are presented as impaired in accordance with our impaired loans disclosure convention.
When we consider that there are additional risk factors inherent in the portfolios that may not be fully reflected in the statistical roll rates or historical experience, these risk factors are taken into account by adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely from statistical or historical experience.
For further details of the risk factor adjustments see Note 1k on the Financial Statements.
In the corporate and commercial sectors, renegotiated loans are typically assessed individually.
Credit risk ratings are intrinsic to the impairment assessment.
A distressed restructuring is classified as an impaired loan.
The individual impairment assessment takes into account the higher risk of the non-payment of future cash flows inherent in renegotiated loans.
Corporate and commercial forbearance Unaudited In the corporate and commercial sectors, forbearance activity is undertaken selectively where it has been identified that repayment difficulties against the original terms have already materialised, or are very likely to materialise.
These cases are treated as impaired loans where: the customer is experiencing, or is very likely to experience, difficulty in meeting a payment obligation to the Group i. e. due to current credit distress : and the Group is offering to the customer revised payment arrangements which constitute a concession i. e. it is offering terms it would not normally be prepared to offer.
These cases are described as distressed restructurings.
The agreement of a restructuring which meets the criteria above requires all loans, advances and counterparty exposures to the customer to be treated as impaired.
Against the background of this requirement, as a customer approaches the point at which it becomes clear that there is an increasing risk that a restructuring of this kind might be necessary, the exposures will typically be regarded as sub-standard to reflect the deteriorating credit risk profile and will be graded as impaired when the restructure is proposed for approval, or sooner if there is sufficient concern regarding the customers likeliness to pay.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 210 For the purposes of determining whether changes to a customers agreement should be treated as a distressed restructuring the following types of modification are regarded as concessionary: transfers from the customer of receivables from third parties, real estate, or other assets to satisfy fully or partially a debt: issuance or other granting of an equity interest to satisfy fully or partially a debt unless the equity interest is granted pursuant to existing terms for converting the debt into an equity interest: and modification of the terms of a debt, such as one or more of the following: reduction absolute or contingent of the stated interest rate for the remaining original life of the debt: extension of the maturity date or dates at a stated interest rate lower than the current market rate for new debt with similar risk: reduction absolute or contingent of the face amount or maturity amount of the debt: and reduction absolute or contingent of accrued interest.
Modifications that are unrelated to payment arrangements, such as the restructuring of collateral or security arrangements or the waiver of rights under covenants within documentation, are not regarded by themselves to be evidence of credit distress affecting payment capacity.
Typically, covenants are in place to give the Group rights of repricing or acceleration, but they are frequently set at levels where payment capacity has yet to be affected, providing rights of action at earlier stages of credit deterioration.
Such concessions do not directly affect the customers ability to service the original contractual debt and are not reported as renegotiated loans.
However, where a customer requests a non-payment related covenant waiver, the significance of the underlying breach of covenant will be considered together with any other indicators of impairment, and where there is a degree of severity of credit distress indicating uncertainty of payment, all available evidence will be considered in determining whether a loss event has occurred.
The waiver will not, however, trigger classification as a renegotiated loan as payment terms have not been modified.
When both payment-related and non-payment related modifications are made together as a result of significant concerns regarding the payment of contractual cash flows, the loan is treated as a distressed restructuring and disclosed as a renegotiated loan.
Within corporate and commercial business segments, modifications of several kinds are frequently agreed for a customer contemporaneously.
Transfer to an interest-only arrangement is the most common type of modification granted in the UK, whether in isolation or in combination with other concessions.
Throughout the rest of the world, term extensions occur more frequently with other types of concession such as interest rate changes occurring less often.
In assessing whether payment-related forbearance is a satisfactory and sustainable strategy, the customers entire exposure and facilities will be reviewed and their ability to meet the terms of both the revised obligation and other credit facilities not amended in the renegotiation is assessed.
Should this assessment identify that a renegotiation will not deal with a customers payment capacity issues satisfactorily, other special management options may be applied.
This process may identify the need to provide assistance to a customer specifically to restructure their business operations and activities so as to restore satisfactory payment capacity.
When considering acceptable restructuring terms we consider the ability of the customer to be able to service the revised interest payments as a necessity.
When principal payment modifications are considered, again we require the customer to be able to comply with the revised terms as a necessary pre-condition for the restructuring to proceed.
When principal payments are modified resulting in permanent forgiveness, or when it is otherwise considered that there is no longer a realistic prospect of recovery of outstanding principal, the affected balances are written off.
When principal repayments are postponed, it is expected that the customer will be capable of paying in line with the renegotiated terms, including instances when the postponed principal repayment is expected from refinancing.
In all cases, a loan renegotiation is only granted when the customer is expected to be able to meet the revised terms.
Modifications may be made on a temporary basis when time is needed for the customer to make arrangements for payment, when deterioration in payment capacity is expected to be acute but short lived, or when more time is needed to accommodate discussions regarding a more permanent accommodation with other bankers, for example in syndicated facilities where multilateral negotiation commonly features.
If a restructuring proceeds and the customer demonstrates satisfactory performance over a period of time, the case may be returned to a non-impaired grade CRR1-8 provided no other indicators of impairment remain.
Such a case cannot be returned to a non-impaired grade when a specific impairment allowance remains against any of the customers credit facilities.
The period of performance will vary depending on the frequency of payments to be made by the customer under the amended agreement and the extent to which the customers financial position is considered to have improved.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 211 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Appendix to Risk Policies and practices Impairment assessment Audited It is our policy that each operating company in HSBC creates impairment allowances for impaired loans promptly and appropriately, when there is objective evidence that impairment of a loan or portfolio of loans has occurred.
For details of our impairment policies on loans and advances and financial investments, see Note 1k on the Financial Statements.
Impairment and credit risk mitigation The existence of collateral has an effect when calculating impairment on individually assessed impaired loans.
When we no longer expect to recover the principal and interest due on a loan in full or in accordance with the original terms and conditions, it is assessed for impairment.
If exposures are secured, the current net realisable value of the collateral will be taken into account when assessing the need for an impairment allowance.
No impairment allowance is recognised in cases where all amounts due are expected to be settled in full on realisation of the security.
Personal lending portfolios are generally assessed for impairment on a collective basis as the portfolios typically consist of large groups of homogeneous loans.
Two methods are used to calculate allowances on a collective basis: a roll-rate methodology or a more basic formulaic approach based on historical losses.
In 2014, we reviewed the impairment allowance methodology used for retail banking and small business portfolios across the Group to ensure that the assumptions used in our collective assessment models continued to appropriately reflect the period of time between a loss event occurring and the account proceeding to delinquency and eventual write-off.
The historical loss methodology is typically used to calculate collective impairment allowances for secured or low default portfolios such as mortgages until the point at which they are individually identified and assessed as impaired.
For loans which are collectively assessed using historical loss methodology, the historical loss rate is derived from the average contractual write-off net of recoveries over a defined period.
The net contractual write-off rate is the actual amount of loss experienced after the realisation of collateral and receipt of recoveries.
A roll-rate methodology is more commonly adopted for unsecured portfolios when there are sufficient volumes of empirical data to develop robust statistical models.
In certain circumstances mortgage portfolios have a statistically significant number of defaults and losses available, enabling reliable roll rates to be generated.
In these cases a rollrate methodology is applied until the point at which the loans are individually identified and assessed as impaired, and the average loss rate for each delinquency bucket is adjusted to reflect the average loss expected following realisation of security and receipt of recoveries.
The average loss expected is derived from average historical collateral realisation values.
The nature of the collective allowance assessment prevents individual collateral values or LTV ratios from being included within the calculation.
However, the loss rates used in the collective assessment are adjusted for the collateral realisation experiences which will vary depending on the LTV composition of the portfolio.
For example, mortgage portfolios under a historical loss rate methodology with lower LTV ratios will typically experience lower loss history and consequently a lower net contractual write-off rate.
For wholesale collectively assessed loans, historical loss methodologies are applied to measure loss event impairments which have been incurred but not reported.
Loss rates are derived from the observed contractual write-off net of recoveries over a defined period, typically no less than 60 months.
The net contractual write-off rate is the actual or expected amount of loss experienced after realisation of collateral and receipt of recoveries.
These historical loss rates are adjusted by an economic factor which amends the historical averages to better represent current economic conditions affecting the portfolio.
In order to reflect the likelihood of a loss event not being identified and assessed an emergence period assumption is applied which reflects the period between a loss occurring and its identification.
The emergence period is estimated by management for each identified portfolio.
The factors that may influence this estimation include economic and market conditions, customer behaviour, portfolio management information, credit management techniques and collection and recovery experiences in the market.
The emergence period is assessed empirically on a periodic basis and may vary over time as these factors change.
Write-off of loans and advances Audited For details of our policy on the write-off of loans and advances, see Note 1k on the Financial Statements.
In HSBC Finance, the carrying amounts of residential mortgage and second lien loans in excess of net realisable value are written off at or before the time foreclosure is completed or settlement is reached with the borrower.
If there is no reasonable expectation of recovery, and foreclosure is pursued, the loan is normally written off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days contractually past due.
We regularly obtain new appraisals for these collateral dependent loans every 180 days and adjust carrying values to the most recent appraisal if they have improved or deteriorated as the best estimate of the cash flows that will be received on the disposal of the collateral.
Unsecured personal facilities, including credit cards, are generally written off at between 150 and 210 days past due, the standard period being the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days contractually delinquent.
Write-off HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 212 periods may be extended, generally to no more than 360 days past due but, in very exceptional circumstances, to longer than that figure in a few countries where local regulation or legislation constrain earlier write-off or where the realisation of collateral for secured real estate lending takes this time.
In retail lending, final write-off should occur within 60 months of the default at the latest.
In the event of bankruptcy or analogous proceedings, write-off may occur earlier than at the periods stated above.
Collections procedures may continue after write-off.
Impairment methodologies Audited To identify objective evidence of impairment for available-for-sale ABSs, an industry standard valuation model is normally applied which uses data with reference to the underlying asset pools and models their projected future cash flows.
The estimated future cash flows of the securities are assessed at the specific financial asset level to determine whether any of them are unlikely to be recovered as a result of loss events occurring on or before the reporting date.
The principal assumptions and inputs to the models are typically the delinquency status of the underlying loans, the probability of delinquent loans progressing to default, the prepayment profiles of the underlying assets and the loss severity in the event of default.
However, the models utilise other variables relevant to specific classes of collateral to forecast future defaults and recovery rates.
Management uses externally available data and applies judgement when determining the appropriate assumptions in respect of these factors.
We use a modelling approach which incorporates historically observed progression rates to default to determine if the decline in aggregate projected cash flows from the underlying collateral will lead to a shortfall in contractual cash flows.
In such cases, the security is considered to be impaired.
In respect of CDOs, expected future cash flows for the underlying collateral are assessed to determine whether there is likely to be a shortfall in the contractual cash flows of the CDO.
When a security benefits from a contract provided by a monoline insurer that insures payments of principal and interest, the expected recovery on the contract is assessed in determining the total expected credit support available to the ABS.
Loan Management Unit Unaudited The HSBC Loan Management Unit LMU is a front line customer contact department within Wholesale Credit and Market Risk that assumes responsibility for managing business customer relationships requiring intensive and close control where the bank's lending is at risk.
LMU operates on a regional basis across the Group and is independent of the originating business management units.
It reports locally to the chief credit officer position.
Customers are identified and transferred to LMU by business management or the Wholesale Credit and Market Risk approval teams.
Customers managed by LMU are normally operating outside the Groups risk appetite.
They typically show symptoms of significant financial difficulty, the management team displays limited experience of managing a business in distress and the management and financial information provided to the bank is insufficient and unreliable.
The levels of customer exposure under management and the size of the LMU team varies between countries depending on the breadth of business undertaken locally but LMU will always manage highly distressed situations where individual customer exposure exceeds US$1.5m.
The primary focus of LMU is to protect the bank's capital and minimise losses by working consensually with customers to promote and support viable recovery strategies wherever achievable, with the ultimate intention of returning the customer to front line relationship management.
In some cases, rehabilitation is not possible and LMU will consider a range of options to protect the bank's exposure and solvency of the customer.
On occasion, it is not possible to find a satisfactory solution and the customer may file for insolvency or local equivalent.
In all outcomes, LMU seeks to treat customers fairly, sympathetically and positively, in a professional way with transparent processes and procedures.
Remediation and restructuring strategies available in the business and LMU include granting a customer various types of concessions while seeking to enhance the ability of the customer to ultimately repay the Group which could include enhancing the overall security available to the bank.
Any decision to approve a concession will be a function of the region's specific country and sector appetite, the key metrics of the customer, the market environment, the loan structure and security.
Internal reviews on customers managed directly by LMU are performed on a scheduled basis in accordance with relevant accounting guidelines, credit policies and national banking regulations.
Under certain circumstances, concessions granted may result in the loan being classified as a renegotiated loan.
Collateral and other credit enhancements held Audited Loans and advances held at amortised cost The Groups practice is to lend on the basis of customers ability to meet their obligations out of cash flow resources rather than rely on the value of security offered.
Depending on a customers standing and the type of product, facilities may be provided without security.
For other lending, a charge over collateral is obtained and considered in determining the credit decision and pricing.
In the event of default, the bank may utilise the collateral as a source of repayment.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 213 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Appendix to Risk Policies and practices Depending on its form, collateral can have a significant financial effect in mitigating our exposure to credit risk.
Additionally, risk may be managed by employing other types of collateral and credit risk enhancements such as second charges, other liens and unsupported guarantees, but the valuation of such mitigants is less certain and their financial effect has not been quantified.
Refinance risk Audited Many types of lending require the repayment of a significant proportion of the principal at maturity.
Typically, the mechanism of repayment for the customer is through the acquisition of a new loan to settle the existing debt.
Refinance risk arises where a customer is unable to repay such term debt on maturity, or to refinance debt at commercial rates.
When there is evidence that this risk may apply to a specific contract, HSBC may need to refinance the loan on concessionary terms that it would not otherwise have considered, in order to recoup the maximum possible cash flows from the contract and potentially avoid the customer defaulting on the repayment of principal.
When there is sufficient evidence that borrowers, based on their current financial capabilities, may fail at maturity to repay or refinance their loans, these loans are disclosed as impaired with recognition of a corresponding impairment allowance where appropriate.
Nature of HSBCs securitisation and other structured exposures Audited Mortgage-backed securities MBSs are securities that represent interests in groups of mortgages and provide investors with the right to receive cash from future mortgage payments interest and or principal.
An MBS which references mortgages with different risk profiles is classified according to the highest risk class.
Collateralised debt obligations CDOs are securities backed by a pool of bonds, loans or other assets such as assetbacked securities ABSs.
CDOs may include exposure to sub-prime or Alt-A mortgage assets where these are part of the underlying assets or reference assets.
As there is often uncertainty surrounding the precise nature of the underlying collateral supporting CDOs, all CDOs supported by residential mortgage-related assets are classified as sub-prime.
Our holdings of ABSs and CDOs and direct lending positions, and the categories of mortgage collateral and lending activity, are described overleaf.
Our exposure to non-residential mortgage-related ABSs includes securities with collateral relating to commercial property mortgages, leveraged finance loans, student loans, and other assets such as securities with other receivable-related collateral.
Definitions and classifications of ABSs and CDOs Categories of ABSs and CDOs Definition Classification Sub-prime Loans to customers who have limited credit histories, For US mortgages, a FICO score of 620 or less has modest incomes or high debt-to-income ratios or have primarily been used to determine whether a loan is experienced credit problems caused by occasional sub-prime.
For non-US mortgages, management delinquencies, prior charge-offs, bankruptcy or other judgement is used.
US Home Equity Lines of A form of revolving credit facility provided to Holdings of HELoCs are classified as sub-prime.
Credit HELoCs customers, which is supported in the majority of categorised within circumstances by a second lien or lower ranking charge Sub-prime over residential property.
US Alt-A Lower risk loans than sub-prime, but they share higher US credit scores and the completeness of risk characteristics than lending under fully conforming documentation held such as proof of income, are standard criteria.
considered when determining whether an Alt-A classification is appropriate.
Non sub-prime mortgages in the US are classified as Alt-A if they are not eligible for sale to the major US Government mortgage agencies or sponsored entities.
US Government agency Securities that are guaranteed by US Government Holdings of US Government agency and US and sponsored agencies such as the Government National Mortgage Government sponsored enterprises mortgage-related enterprises mortgageAssociation Ginnie Mae, or by US Government assets are classified as prime exposures.
related assets sponsored entities including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 214 Categories of ABSs and CDOs Definition Classification UK non-conforming UK mortgages that do not meet normal lending UK non-conforming mortgages are treated as submortgages categorised criteria.
Examples include mortgages where the prime exposures.
within Sub-prime expected level of documentation is not provided such as income with self-certification, or where poor credit history increases risk and results in pricing at a higher than normal lending rate.
Other residential Residential mortgages, including prime mortgages, Prime residential mortgage-related assets are included mortgages that do not meet any of the classifications described in this category.
Liquidity and funding Audited The management of liquidity and funding is primarily undertaken locally by country in our operating entities in compliance with the Groups liquidity and funding risk management framework the LFRF, and with practices and limits set by the GMB through the Risk Management Meeting and approved by the Board.
These limits vary according to the depth and the liquidity of the markets in which the entities operate.
Our general policy is that each defined operating entity should be self-sufficient in funding its own activities.
Where transactions exist between operating entities, they are reflected symmetrically in both entities.
As part of our Asset, Liability and Capital Management ALCM structure, we have established ALCOs at Group level, in the regions and in operating entities.
The terms of reference of all ALCOs include the monitoring and control of liquidity and funding.
The primary responsibility for managing liquidity and funding within the Groups framework and risk appetite resides with the local operating entities ALCOs.
Our most significant operating entities are overseen by regional ALCOs, Group ALCO and the Risk Management Meeting.
The remaining smaller operating entities are overseen by regional ALCOs, with appropriate escalation of significant issues to Group ALCO and the Risk Management Meeting.
Operating entities are predominately defined on a country basis to reflect our local management of liquidity and funding.
Typically, an operating entity will be defined as a single legal entity.
However, to take account of the situation where operations in a country are booked across multiple subsidiaries or branches: an operating entity may be defined as a wider sub-consolidated group of legal entities if they are incorporated in the same country, liquidity and funding are freely fungible between the entities and permitted by local regulation, and the definition reflects how liquidity and funding are managed locally: or an operating entity may be defined more narrowly as a principal office branch of a wider legal entity operating in multiple countries, reflecting the local country management of liquidity and funding.
The Risk Management Meeting reviews and agrees annually the list of entities it directly oversees and the composition of these entities.
Primary sources of funding Audited Customer deposits in the form of current accounts and savings deposits payable on demand or at short notice form a significant part of our funding, and we place considerable importance on maintaining their stability.
For deposits, stability depends upon maintaining depositor confidence in our capital strength and liquidity, and on competitive and transparent pricing.
We also access wholesale funding markets by issuing senior secured and unsecured debt securities publically and privately and borrowing from the secured repo markets against high quality collateral, in order to obtain funding for nonbanking subsidiaries that do not accept deposits, to align asset and liability maturities and currencies and to maintain a presence in local wholesale markets.
The management of liquidity and funding risk Audited Inherent liquidity risk categorisation We place our operating entities into one of two categories low and medium to reflect our assessment of their inherent liquidity risk considering political, economic and regulatory factors within the host country and factors specific to the operating entities themselves, such as their local market, market share and balance sheet strength.
The categorisation involves management judgement and is based on the perceived liquidity risk of an operating entity relative to other entities in the Group.
The categorisation is intended to reflect the possible impact of a liquidity event, not the probability of an event, and forms part of our risk appetite.
It is used to determine the prescribed stress scenario that we require our operating entities to be able to withstand and manage to.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 215 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Appendix to Risk Policies and practices Core deposits A key element of our internal framework is the classification of customer deposits into core and non-core based on our expectation of their behaviour during periods of liquidity stress.
This characterisation takes into account the inherent liquidity risk categorisation of the operating entity originating the deposit, the nature of the customer and the size and pricing of the deposit.
No deposit is considered to be core in its entirety unless it is contractually collateralising a loan.
The core deposit base in each operating entity is considered to be a long-term source of funding and therefore is assumed not to be withdrawn in the liquidity stress scenario that we use to calculate our principal liquidity risk metrics.
The three filters considered in assessing whether a deposit in any operating entity is core are: price: any deposit priced significantly above market or benchmark rates is generally treated as entirely non-core: size: depositors with total funds above certain monetary thresholds are excluded.
Thresholds are established by considering the business line and inherent liquidity risk categorisation: and line of business: the element of any deposit remaining after the application of the price and size filters is assessed on the basis of the line of business with which the deposit is associated.
The proportion of any customer deposit that can be considered core under this filter is between 35% and 90%.
Repo transactions and bank deposits cannot be classified as core deposits.
Advances to core funding ratio Core customer deposits are an important source of funding to finance lending to customers, and mitigate against reliance on short-term wholesale funding.
Limits are placed on operating entities to restrict their ability to increase loans and advances to customers without corresponding growth in core customer deposits or long-term debt funding with a residual maturity beyond one year: this measure is referred to as the advances to core funding ratio.
Advances to core funding ratio limits are set by the Risk Management Meeting for the most significant operating entities, and by regional ALCOs for smaller operating entities, and are monitored by ALCM teams.
The ratio describes loans and advances to customers as a percentage of the total of core customer deposits and term funding with a remaining term to maturity in excess of one year.
In general, customer loans are assumed to be renewed and are included in the numerator of the ratio, irrespective of the contractual maturity date.
Reverse repo arrangements are excluded from the advances to core funding ratio.
Stressed coverage ratios Stressed coverage ratios are derived from stressed cash flow scenario analyses and express stressed cash inflows as a percentage of stressed cash outflows over one-month and three-month time horizons.
The stressed cash inflows include: inflows net of assumed haircuts expected to be generated from the realisation of liquid assets: and contractual cash inflows from maturing assets that are not already reflected as a utilisation of liquid assets.
In line with the approach adopted for the advances to core funding ratio, customer loans are generally assumed not to generate any cash inflows under stress scenarios and are therefore excluded from the numerator of the stressed coverage ratio, irrespective of the contractual maturity date.
A stressed coverage ratio of 100% or higher reflects a positive cumulative cash flow under the stress scenario being monitored.
Group operating entities are required to maintain a ratio of 100% or more out to three months under the combined market-wide and HSBC-specific stress scenario defined by the inherent liquidity risk categorisation of the operating entity concerned.
Compliance with operating entity limits is monitored by ALCM teams and reported monthly to the Risk Management Meeting for the main operating entities and to regional ALCOs for the smaller operating entities.
Stressed scenario analysis Unaudited We use a number of standard Group stress scenarios designed to model: combined market-wide and HSBC-specific liquidity crisis scenarios: and market-wide liquidity crisis scenario.
These scenarios are modelled by all operating entities.
The appropriateness of the assumptions for each scenario is reviewed by ALCM regularly and formally approved by the Risk Management Meeting and the Board annually as part of the liquidity and funding risk appetite approval process.
Stressed cash outflows are determined by applying a standard set of prescribed stress assumptions to the Groups cash flow model.
Our framework prescribes the use of two market-wide scenarios and two further combined market-wide and HSBC-specific stress scenarios of increasing severity.
In addition to our standard stress scenarios, individual operating entities are required to design their own scenarios to reflect specific local market conditions, products and funding bases.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 216 The two combined market-wide and HSBC-specific scenarios model a more severe scenario than the market-wide scenario.
The relevant combined market-wide and HSBC-specific stress scenario that an operating entity manages to is based upon its inherent liquidity risk categorisation.
The key assumptions factored into the two combined market-wide and HSBC-specific stress scenarios are summarised as follows: all non-core deposits are deemed to be withdrawn within three months 80% within one month, with the level of noncore deposits dependent on the operating entitys inherent liquidity risk categorisation: the ability to access interbank funding and unsecured term debt markets ceases for the duration of the scenario: the ability to generate funds from illiquid asset portfolios securitisation and secured borrowing is restricted to 25-75% of the lower of issues in the last six months or expected issues in the next six months.
The restriction is based on current market conditions and is dependent on the operating entitys inherent liquidity risk categorisation: the ability to access repo funding ceases for any asset not classified as liquid under our liquid asset policy for the duration of the scenario: drawdowns on committed lending facilities must be consistent with the severity of the market stress being modelled and dependent on the inherent liquidity risk categorisation of the operating entity: outflows are triggered by a defined downgrade in long-term ratings.
We maintain an ongoing assessment of the appropriate number of notches to reflect: customer loans are assumed to be renewed at contractual maturity: interbank loans and reverse repos are assumed to run off contractually: and assets defined as liquid assets are assumed to be realised in cash ahead of their contractual maturity, after applying a defined stressed haircut of up to 20%.
Liquid assets of HSBCs principal operating entities Audited Stressed scenario analysis and the numerator of the coverage ratio include the assumed cash inflows that would be generated from the realisation of liquid assets, after applying the appropriate stressed haircut.
These assumptions are made on the basis of managements expectation of when an asset is deemed to be realisable.
Liquid assets are unencumbered assets that meet the Groups definition of liquid assets and are either held outright or as a consequence of a reverse repo transaction with a residual contractual maturity beyond the time horizon of the stressed coverage ratio being monitored.
Any unencumbered asset held as a result of reverse repo transactions with a contractual maturity within the time horizon of the stressed coverage ratio being monitored is excluded from the stock of liquid assets and is instead reflected as a contractual cash inflow.
Our framework defines the asset classes that can be assessed locally as high quality and realisable within one month and between one month and three months.
Each local ALCO has to be satisfied that any asset which may be treated as liquid in accordance with the Groups liquid asset policy will remain liquid under the stress scenario being managed to.
Inflows from the utilisation of liquid assets within one month can generally only be based on confirmed withdrawable central bank deposits or the sale or repo of government and quasi-government exposures generally restricted to those denominated in the sovereigns domestic currency.
High quality ABSs predominantly US MBSs and covered bonds are also included but inflows assumed for these assets are capped.
Inflows after one month are also reflected for high quality non-financial and non-structured corporate bonds and equities within the most liquid indices.
Internal categorisation Cash inflow recognised Asset classes Level 1 Within one month Central government Central bank including confirmed withdrawable reserves Supranationals Multilateral development banks Coins and banknotes Level 2 Within one month but capped Local and regional government Public sector entities Secured covered bonds and pass-through ABSs Gold Level 3 From one to three months Unsecured non-financial entity securities Equities listed on recognised exchanges and within liquid indices Any entity owned and controlled by central or local regional government but not explicitly guaranteed is treated as a public sector entity.
Any exposure explicitly guaranteed is reflected as an exposure to the ultimate guarantor.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 217 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Appendix to Risk Policies and practices In terms of the criteria used to ensure liquid assets are of a high quality, the Groups liquid asset policy sets out the following additional criteria: 1.
Central bank and central government exposures denominated in the domestic currency of the related sovereign and held onshore in the domestic banking system qualify as level 1 liquid assets.
Central bank and central government exposures denominated in the domestic currency of the related sovereign and held offshore must be risk weighted 20% or lower under the Basel standardised risk weighting methodology to qualify as level 1 liquid assets.
Central bank and central government exposures denominated in a currency other than the currency of the related sovereign i. e. foreign currency must be risk weighted 20% or lower under the Basel standardised risk weighting methodology and issued in a limited number of major currencies to qualify as level 1 liquid assets.
The treatment of eurozone countries using the euro as their domestic currency depends on whether the exposures are held onshore in the domestic banking system or offshore.
Central bank and central government exposures held onshore in the domestic banking system qualify as level 1 liquid assets under criteria 1, but central bank and central government exposures held offshore are considered to be denominated in a foreign currency under criteria 3.
Local regional government exposures held onshore and considered by the local regulator to be the same risk as central government exposures can be considered central government exposures.
Supranationals and multilateral development banks must be 0% risk weighted under the Basel standardised riskweighting methodology to qualify as level 1 liquid assets.
To qualify as a level 2 liquid asset, the exposure must be risk weighted 20% or lower under the Basel standardised riskweighting methodology.
To qualify as a level 3 liquid asset, an unsecured non-financial corporate debt exposure must satisfy a minimum internal rating requirement.
On a case-by-case basis, operating entities are permitted to treat other assets as liquid if these assets are realistically assessed to be liquid under stress.
These liquid assets are reported as Other, separately from level 1, level 2 and level 3 liquid assets.
Net cash flow arising from interbank and intragroup loans and deposits Under the LFRF, a net cash inflow within three months arising from interbank and intra-Group loans and deposits will give rise to a lower liquid asset requirement.
Conversely, a net cash outflow within three months arising from interbank and intra-Group loans and deposits will give rise to a higher liquid assets requirement.
Net cash flow arising from reverse repo, repo, stock borrowing, stock lending and outright short positions including intra-Group A net cash inflow represents liquid resources in addition to liquid assets because any unencumbered asset held as a consequence of a reverse repo transaction with a residual contractual maturity within the stressed coverage ratio time period is not reflected as a liquid asset.
The impact of net cash outflow depends on whether the underlying collateral encumbered as a result will qualify as a liquid asset when released at the maturity of the repo.
The majority of the Groups repo transactions are collateralised by liquid assets and, as such, any net cash outflow shown is offset by the return of liquid assets, which are excluded from the liquid asset table above.
Wholesale debt monitoring Unaudited Where wholesale debt term markets are accessed to raise funding, ALCO is required to establish cumulative rolling threemonth and 12-month debt maturity limits to ensure no concentration of maturities within these timeframes.
Liquidity behaviouralisation Unaudited Liquidity behaviouralisation is applied to reflect our assessment of the expected period for which we are confident that we will have access to our liabilities, even under a severe liquidity stress scenario, and the expected period for which we must assume that we will need to fund our assets.
Behaviouralisation is applied when the contractual terms do not reflect the expected behaviour.
Liquidity behaviouralisation is reviewed and approved by local ALCO in compliance with policies set by the Risk Management Meeting.
Our approach to liquidity risk management will often mean different approaches are applied to assets and liabilities.
For example, management may assume a shorter life for liabilities and a longer-term funding requirement for assets.
All core deposits are assumed under the Groups core non-core and advances to core funding frameworks to have a liquidity behaviouralised life beyond one year and to represent a homogeneous source of core funding.
The behaviouralisation of assets is far more granular and seeks to differentiate the period for which we must assume that we will need to fund the asset.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 218 Funds transfer pricing Unaudited Our funds transfer pricing policies give rise to a two-stage funds transfer pricing approach, reflecting the fact that we separately manage interest rate risk and liquidity and funding risk under different assumptions.
They have been developed to be consistent with our risk management frameworks.
Each operating entity is required to apply the Groups transfer pricing policy framework to determine for each material currency the most appropriate interest rate risk transfer pricing curve, a liquidity premium curve which is the spread over the interest rate risk transfer pricing curve and a liquidity recharge assessment which is the spread under or over the interest rate risk transfer pricing curve.
The interest rate risk transfer pricing policy seeks to ensure that all market interest rate risk arising structurally from nontrading banking book assets and liabilities which is capable of being neutralised externally in the market or neutralised internally by off-setting transfers, is transferred to BSM to be managed centrally as non-trading market risk.
For each material currency each operating entity employs a single interest rate risk transfer pricing curve.
The transfer price curve used for this purpose reflects how BSM in each operating entity is best able to neutralise the interest rate risk in the market at the point of transfer.
Where basis risk can be identified between the re-pricing basis of an external asset or external liability and the re-pricing basis of the interest rate risk transfer pricing curve, this basis risk may be transferred to BSM provided it can neutralise the basis risk in the market.
Liquidity and funding risk is transfer priced independently from interest rate risk because the liquidity and funding risk of an operating entity is transferred to ALCO to be managed centrally.
ALCO monitors and manages the advances to core funding ratio and delegates the management of the liquid asset portfolio and execution of the wholesale term debt funding plan to BSM.
This assists ALCO in ensuring the Groups stressed coverage ratios remain above 100% out to three months.
The liquidity and funding risk transfer price consists of two components: Liquidity recharge: the cost of holding the benchmark liquid asset the yield under the transfer price to meet stressed cash outflows.
The benchmark liquid asset is decided by ALCO and based on the weighted average duration that can be achieved by investing in level 1 liquid assets, with a residual duration of up to one year.
Liquidity premium: the assessed cost value of term funding the yield over the transfer price to pay for term debt and core deposits.
The assessed cost of holding liquid assets is allocated to the outflows modelled by the Groups internal stressed coverage ratio framework.
Liquidity premium is charged to any asset that affects our three-month stressed coverage ratios based on the assessed behaviouralised liquidity life of the asset, with any asset affecting the Groups advances to core funding metric required to have a minimum behaviouralised life of at least one year, and the prevailing liquidity premium curve rate set by ALCO and calibrated in line with Groups calibration principles.
Core deposits therefore share equally in the liquidity premiums charged to the assets they support, after deducting the cost of any term funding.
Repos and stock lending GB&M provides collateralised security financing services to its clients, providing them with cash financing or specific securities.
When cash is provided to clients against collateral in the form of securities, the cash provided is recognised on the balance sheet as a reverse repo.
When securities are provided to clients against cash collateral the cash received is recognised on the balance sheet as a repo or, if the securities are equity securities, as stock lending.
Each operating entity manages its collateral through a central collateral pool, in line with the LFRF.
When specific securities need to be delivered and the entity does not have them currently available within the central collateral pool, the securities are borrowed on a collateralised basis.
When securities are borrowed against cash collateral the cash provided is recognised on the balance sheet as a reverse repo or, if the securities are equity securities, as stock borrowing.
Operating entities may also borrow cash against collateral in the form of securities, using the securities available in the central collateral pool.
Repos and stock lending can be used in this way to fund the cash requirement arising from securities owned outright by Markets to facilitate client business, and the net cash requirement arising from financing client securities activity.
Reverse repos, stock borrowing, repos and stock lending are reported net when the IFRSs offsetting criteria are met.
In some cases transactions to borrow or lend securities are collateralised using securities.
These transactions are off-balance sheet.
Any security accepted as collateral for a reverse repo or stock borrowing transaction must be of very high quality and its value subject to an appropriate haircut.
Securities borrowed under reverse repo or stock borrowing transactions can only be recognised as part of the liquidity asset buffer for the duration of the transactions and only if the security received is eligible under the liquid asset policy within the LFRF.
Credit controls are in place to ensure that the fair value of any collateral received remains appropriate to collateralise the cash or fair value of securities given.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 219 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Appendix to Risk Policies and practices The effect of active collateral management Collateral is managed on an operating entity basis, consistent with the approach adopted in managing liquidity and funding.
Available collateral held by each operating entity is managed as a single collateral pool.
In deciding which collateral to pledge, each operating entity seeks to optimise the use of the available collateral pool within the confines of the LFRF, irrespective of whether the collateral pledged is recognised on-balance sheet or was received in respect of reverse repo, stock borrowing or derivative transactions.
Managing collateral in this manner affects the presentation of asset encumbrance in that we may encumber on-balance sheet holdings while maintaining available unencumbered off-balance sheet holdings, even though we are not seeking to directly finance the on-balance sheet holdings pledged.
In quantifying the level of encumbrance of negotiable securities, the encumbrance is analysed by individual security.
When a particular security is encumbered and we hold the security both on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet with the right to repledge, we assume for the purpose of this disclosure that the off-balance sheet holding received from the third party is encumbered ahead of the on-balance sheet holding.
An on-balance sheet encumbered and off-balance sheet unencumbered asset will occur, for example, if we receive a specific security as a result of a reverse repo stock borrowing transaction, but finance the cash lent by pledging a generic collateral basket, even if the security received is eligible for the collateral basket pledged.
It will also occur if we receive a generic collateral basket as a result of a reverse repo transaction but finance the cash lent by pledging specific securities, even if the securities pledged are eligible for the collateral basket.
Encumbered and unencumbered assets Definitions of the categories included in the table Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets: Encumbered assets are assets on our balance sheet which have been pledged as collateral against an existing liability, and as a result are assets which are unavailable to the bank to secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements.
Unencumbered readily realisable assets are assets regarded by the bank to be readily realisable in the normal course of business to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, and are not subject to any restrictions on their use for these purposes.
Unencumbered other realisable assets are assets where there are no restrictions on their use to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, but they are not readily realisable in the normal course of business in their current form.
Unencumbered reverse repo stock borrowing receivables and derivative assets are assets related specifically to reverse repo, stock borrowing and derivative transactions.
They are shown separately as these on-balance sheet assets cannot be pledged but often give rise to the receipt of non-cash assets which are not recognised on the balance sheet, and can additionally be used to raise secured funding, meet additional collateral requirements or be sold.
Unencumbered cannot be pledged as collateral are assets that have not been pledged and which we have assessed could not be pledged and therefore could not be used to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements.
An example is assets held by the Groups insurance subsidiaries that back liabilities to policyholders and support the solvency of these entities.
Historically, the Group has not recognised any contingent liquidity value for assets other than those assets defined under the LFRF as being liquid assets, and any other negotiable instruments that under stress are assumed to be realisable after three months, even though they may currently be realisable.
This approach has generally been driven by our risk appetite not to place any reliance on central banks.
In a few cases, we have recognised the contingent value of discrete pools of assets, but the amounts involved are insignificant.
As a result, we have reported the majority of our loans and advances to customers and banks in the category Other realisable assets as management would need to perform additional actions in order to make the assets transferable and readily realisable.
Additional information The amount of assets pledged to secure liabilities reported in Note 19 on the Financial Statements may be greater than the book value of assets reported as being encumbered in the table on page 172.
Examples of where such differences occur are: ABSs and covered bonds, where the amount of liabilities issued plus the required mandatory  is lower than the book value of assets pledged to the pool.
Any difference is categorised in the table above as Unencumbered readily realisable assets: negotiable securities held by custodians or settlement agents, where a floating charge has been given over the entire holding to secure intra-day settlement liabilities, are only reported as encumbered to the extent that we have a liability to the custodian or settlement agent at the reporting date, with the balance reported as Unencumbered readily realisable assets: and assets pre-positioned with central banks or government agencies are only reported as encumbered to the extent that we have secured funding with the collateral.
The unutilised pre-positioned collateral is reported as Unencumbered readily realisable assets.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 220 Securities reflected on the balance sheet that are pledged as collateral against an existing liability or lent are reflected as encumbered for the duration of the transaction.
When securities are received as collateral or borrowed, and when we have the right to sell or re-pledge these securities, they are reflected as available and unencumbered for the duration of the transaction, unless re-pledged or sold.
Further analysis regarding the encumbrance of securities resulting from repos and stock lending and available unencumbered assets arising from reverse repos and stock borrowing is provided under the heading Encumbered and unencumbered assets on page 171.
In the normal course of business we do not seek to utilise repo financing as a source of funding to finance customer assets, beyond the collateralised security financing activities within Markets described above.
The original contractual maturity of reverse repo, stock borrowing, repo and stock lending is short term with the vast majority of transactions being for less than 90 days.
Management of cross-currency liquidity and funding risk Unaudited Our liquidity and funding risk framework also considers the ability of each entity to continue to access foreign exchange markets under stress when a surplus in one currency is used to meet a deficit in another currency, for example, by the use of the foreign currency swap markets.
Where appropriate, operating entities are required to monitor stressed coverage ratios and advances to core funding ratios for non-local currencies.
HSBC Holdings Audited HSBC Holdings primary sources of cash are dividends received from subsidiaries, interest on and repayment of intragroup loans and interest earned on its own liquid funds.
HSBC Holdings also raises ancillary funds in the debt capital markets through subordinated and senior debt issuance.
Cash is primarily used for the provision of capital to subsidiaries, interest payments to debt holders and dividend payments to shareholders.
HSBC Holdings is also subject to contingent liquidity risk by virtue of loan and other credit-related commitments and guarantees and similar contracts issued.
Such commitments and guarantees are only issued after due consideration of HSBC Holdings ability to finance the commitments and guarantees and the likelihood of the need arising.
HSBC Holdings actively manages the cash flows from its subsidiaries to optimise the amount of cash held at the holding company level.
The ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends on, among other things, their respective local regulatory capital and banking requirements, statutory reserves, and financial and operating performance.
During 2014 and 2013, none of the Groups subsidiaries experienced significant restrictions on paying dividends or repaying loans and advances.
Also, there are no foreseen restrictions envisaged by our subsidiaries on paying dividends or repaying loans and advances.
None of the subsidiaries which are excluded from our regulatory consolidation has capital resources below its minimum regulatory requirement.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that movements in market factors, including foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, interest rates, credit spreads and equity prices, will reduce our income or the value of our portfolios.
Market risk exposures including graphs and tables are provided under Market Risk on page 175.
Exposure to market risk Unaudited Exposure to market risk is separated into two portfolios: Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from market-making and the warehousing of customer-derived positions.
Non-trading portfolios comprise positions that primarily arise from the interest rate management of our retail and commercial banking assets and liabilities, financial investments designated as available for sale and held to maturity, and exposures arising from our insurance operations.
Where appropriate, we apply similar risk management policies and measurement techniques to both trading and nontrading portfolios.
Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures in order to optimise return on risk while maintaining a market profile consistent with our status as one of the worlds largest banking and financial services organisations.
The nature of the hedging and risk mitigation strategies performed across the Group corresponds to the market risk management instruments available within each operating jurisdiction.
These strategies range from the use of traditional market instruments, such as interest rate swaps, to more sophisticated hedging strategies to address a combination of risk factors arising at portfolio level.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 221 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Appendix to Risk Policies and practices Overview of market risk in global businesses Unaudited The diagram below illustrates the main business areas where trading and non-trading market risks reside and market risk measures to monitor and limit exposures.
Trading risk Non-trading risk Foreign exchange & commodities Structural foreign exchange Risk types Interest rates 1 Interest rates Credit spreads Credit spreads Equities GB&M, incl BSM GB&M, incl BSM GPB CMB RBWM Global businesses Risk measure VaR | Sensitivity | Stress testing VaR | Sensitivity | Stress testing 1 The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings is not included in the Group VaR.
The management of this risk is described on page 181.
Market risk governance Audited Market risk is managed and controlled through limits approved by the Risk Management Meeting of the GMB for HSBC Holdings and our various global businesses.
These limits are allocated across business lines and to the Groups legal entities.
The management of market risk is principally undertaken in Global HSBC Holdings Board Markets, where 77% of the total value at risk of HSBC excluding insurance and almost all trading VaR resides, using risk limits approved by the GMB.
VaR limits are set for portfolios, products and risk types, with market liquidity being a primary factor in Chairman CEO determining the level of limits set.
Group Risk, an independent unit within Group Head Office, is responsible for our market risk management policies and measurement techniques.
Each major operating entity has an Risk Management Meeting independent market risk management and control function which of the GMB is responsible for measuring market risk exposures in accordance with the policies defined by Group Risk, and monitoring and reporting these exposures against the prescribed limits on a Group Traded Risk daily basis.
The market risk limits are governed according to the framework illustrated to the left.
Each operating entity is required to assess the market risks arising Entity Risk on each product in its business and to transfer them to either its Management Committee local Markets unit for management, or to separate books managed under the supervision of the local ALCO.
Our aim is to ensure that all market risks are consolidated within operations that have the necessary skills, tools, management and Principal Office Manager governance to manage them.
In certain cases where the market risks cannot be fully transferred, we identify the impact of varying scenarios on valuations or on net interest income resulting from any residual risk positions.
Further details on the control and Business Desk Trader management process for residual risks are provided on page 224.
Model risk is governed through Model Oversight Committees MOCs at the regional and global Wholesale Credit and Market Risk levels.
They have direct oversight and approval responsibility for all traded risk models utilised for risk measurement and management and stress testing.
The MOCs prioritise the development of models, methodologies and practices used for traded risk management within the Group and ensure that they remain within our risk appetite and business plans.
The Markets MOC reports into the Group MOC, which oversees all model risk types at Group level.
Group MOC informs the Group Risk Management Meeting about material issues at least on a bi-annual basis.
The Risk Management Meeting is the Groups Designated Committee according to regulatory rules and has delegated day-to-day governance of all traded risk models to the Markets MOC.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 222 Specific measures General measures Our control of market risk in the trading and non-trading portfolios is based on a policy of restricting individual operations to trading within a list of permissible instruments authorised for each site by Group Risk, of enforcing new product approval procedures, and of restricting trading in the more complex derivative products only to offices with appropriate levels of product expertise and robust control systems.
Market risk measures Audited Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures while maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk appetite.
We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures including sensitivity analysis, value at risk and stress testing.
Sensitivity analysis Unaudited Sensitivity analysis measures the impact of individual market factor movements on specific instruments or portfolios, including interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices, such as the effect of a one basis point change in yield.
We use sensitivity measures to monitor the market risk positions within each risk type.
Sensitivity limits are set for portfolios, products and risk types, with the depth of the market being one of the principal factors in determining the level of limits set.
Value at risk Audited Value at risk VaR is a technique that estimates the potential losses on risk positions as a result of movements in market rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence.
The use of VaR is integrated into market risk management and is calculated for all trading positions regardless of how we capitalise those exposures.
Where there is not an approved internal model, we use the appropriate local rules to capitalise exposures.
In addition, we calculate VaR for non-trading portfolios in order to have a complete picture of risk.
Our models are predominantly based on historical simulation.
VaR is calculated at a 99% confidence level for a one-day holding period.
Where we do not calculate VaR explicitly, we use alternative tools as summarised in the Market Risk Stress Testing table found in the Stress testing section below.
Our VaR models derive plausible future scenarios from past series of recorded market rates and prices, taking into account inter-relationships between different markets and rates such as interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
The models also incorporate the effect of option features on the underlying exposures.
The historical simulation models used incorporate the following features: historical market rates and prices are calculated with reference to foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, interest rates, equity prices and the associated volatilities: potential market movements utilised for VaR are calculated with reference to data from the past two years: and VaR measures are calculated to a 99% confidence level and use a one-day holding period.
The nature of the VaR models means that an increase in observed market volatility will lead to an increase in VaR without any changes in the underlying positions.
We are committed to the ongoing development of our in-house risk models.
VaR model limitations Although a valuable guide to risk, VaR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations.
For example: the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events may not encompass all potential events, particularly those which are extreme in nature: the use of a holding period assumes that all positions can be liquidated or the risks offset during that period.
This may not fully reflect the market risk arising at times of severe illiquidity, when the holding period may be insufficient to liquidate or hedge all positions fully: the use of a 99% confidence level, by definition, does not take into account losses that might occur beyond this level of confidence: VaR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the close of business and therefore does not necessarily reflect intra-day exposures: and VaR is unlikely to reflect loss potential on exposures that only arise under conditions of significant market movement.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 223 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Appendix to Risk Policies and practices Risk not in VaR framework Unaudited Our VaR model is designed to capture significant basis risks such as credit default swap versus bond, asset swap spreads and cross-currency basis.
Other basis risks which are not completely covered in VaR, such as the Libor tenor basis, are complemented by our risk not in VaR RNIV calculations, and are integrated into our capital framework.
The RNIV framework therefore aims to capture and capitalise material market risks that are not adequately covered in the VaR model.
An example of this is Libor-overnight index swap basis risk for minor currencies.
In such instances the RNIV framework uses stress tests to quantify the capital requirement.
On average in 2014, the capital requirement derived from these stress tests represented 2.6% of the total internal model-based market risk requirement.
Risks covered by RNIV represent 18% of market risk RWAs for models with regulatory approval and include those resulting from underlying risk factors which are not observable on a daily basis across asset classes and products, such as dividend risk and correlation risks.
Risk factors are reviewed on a regular basis and either incorporated directly in the VaR models, where possible, or quantified through the VaR-based RNIV approach or a stress test approach within the RNIV framework.
The severity of the scenarios is calibrated to be in line with the capital adequacy requirements.
The outcome of the VaR-based RNIV is included in the VaR calculation and back-testing: a stressed VaR RNIV is also computed for the risk factors considered in the VaR-based RNIV approach.
In 2014, we modified our RNIV model on a non-diversified basis across risk factors to comply with new PRA CRD IV implementation guidelines.
Level 3 assets The fair values of Level 3 assets and liabilities in trading portfolios are disclosed on page 380, and represent only a small proportion of the overall trading portfolio.
Market risk arising from Level 3 instruments is managed by various market risk techniques such as stress testing and notional limits.
The table on page 384 shows the movement in Level 3 financial instruments.
Back-testing We routinely validate the accuracy of our VaR models by back-testing them against both clean and hypothetical profit and loss against the corresponding VaR numbers.
Hypothetical profit and loss excludes non-modelled items such as fees, commissions and revenues of intra-day transactions.
We would expect on average to see two or three profits and two or three losses in excess of VaR at the 99% confidence level over a one-year period.
The actual number of profits or losses in excess of VaR over this period can therefore be used to gauge how well the models are performing.
To ensure a conservative approach to calculating our risk exposures, it is important to note that profits in excess of VaR are only considered when back-testing the accuracy of our models and are not used to calculate the VaR numbers used for risk management or capital purposes.
We back-test our Group VaR at various levels which reflect a full legal entity scope of HSBC, including entities that do not have local permission to use VaR for regulatory purposes.
Stress testing Unaudited Stress testing is an important tool that is integrated into our market risk management tool to evaluate the potential impact on portfolio values of more extreme, although plausible, events or movements in a set of financial variables.
In such abnormal scenarios, losses can be much greater than those predicted by VaR modelling.
Stress testing is implemented at legal entity, regional and overall Group levels.
A standard set of scenarios is utilised consistently across all regions within the Group.
Scenarios are tailored to capture the relevant events or market movements at each level.
The risk appetite around potential stress losses for the Group is set and monitored against referral limits.
Market Risk Stress Testing Sensitivities Technical Hypothetical Historical Impact of a single risk Impact of the largest Impact of potential Scenarios that Reverse factor e. g. break of a move in each risk factor macroeconomic events, incorporate historical Stress currency peg without consideration e. g. slowdown in observations of market Testing of any underlying mainland China movements e. g. Black market correlation Monday 1987 for equities HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 224 Market risk reverse stress tests are undertaken on the premise that there is a fixed loss.
The stress test process identifies which scenarios lead to this loss.
The rationale behind the reverse stress test is to understand scenarios which are beyond normal business settings that could have contagion and systemic implications.
Stressed VaR and stress testing, together with reverse stress testing and the management of gap risk, provide management with insights regarding the tail risk beyond VaR for which HSBCs appetite is limited.
Trading portfolios Audited Gap risk Certain products are structured in such a way that they give rise to enhanced gap risk, being the risk that loss is incurred upon occurrence of a gap event.
A gap event is a significant and sudden change in market price with no accompanying trading opportunity.
Such movements may occur, for example, when, in reaction to an adverse event or unexpected news announcement, some parts of the market move far beyond their normal volatility range and become temporarily illiquid.
In 2014 gap risk principally arose from non-recourse loan transactions, mostly for corporate clients, where the collateral against the loan is limited to the posted shares.
Upon occurrence of a gap event, the value of the equity collateral could fall below the outstanding loan amount.
Given their characteristics, these transactions make little or no contribution to VaR nor to traditional market risk sensitivity measures.
We capture their risks within our stress testing scenarios and monitor gap risk on an ongoing basis.
We did not incur any notable gap loss in 2014. fide-peg risk For certain currencies pegged or managed the spot exchange rate is pegged at a fixed rate typically to USD or EUR, or managed within a predefined band around a pegged rate.
fide-peg risk is the risk of the peg or managed band changing or being abolished, and moving to a floating regime.
HSBC has considerable experience in managing fixed and managed currency regimes.
Using stressed scenarios on spot rates, we are able to analyse how fide-peg events would impact the positions held by HSBC.
We monitor such scenarios to pegged or managed currencies, such as the Hong Kong dollar, renminbi, Middle Eastern currencies and the Swiss franc with appreciation capped against the euro during 2014, and limit any potential losses that would occur.
This complements traditional market risk metrics, such as historical VaR, which may not fully capture the risk involved in holding positions in pegged or managed currencies.
Historical VaR relies on past events to determine the likelihood of potential profits or losses.
However, pegged or managed currencies may not have experienced a fide-peg event during the historical timeframe being considered.
ABS MBS exposures The ABS MBS exposures within the trading portfolios are managed within sensitivity and VaR limits as described on page 176, and are included within the stress testing scenarios described above.
Non-trading portfolios Audited Most of the Groups non-trading VaR relates to Balance Sheet Management BSM or local treasury management functions.
Contributions to Group non-trading VaR are driven by interest rates and credit spread risks arising from all global businesses.
There is no commodity market risk in the non-trading portfolios.
Non-trading VaR also includes the interest rate risk of non-trading financial instruments held by the global businesses and transferred into portfolios managed by BSM or local treasury functions.
In measuring, monitoring and managing risk in our non-trading portfolios, VaR is just one of the tools used.
The management of interest rate risk in the banking book is described further in Non-trading interest rate risk below, including the role of BSM.
Non-trading VaR excludes equity risk on available-for-sale securities, structural foreign exchange risk, and interest rate risk on fixed rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings, the scope and management of which are described in the relevant sections below.
Our control of market risk in the non-trading portfolios is based on transferring the assessed market risk of non-trading assets and liabilities created outside BSM or Markets, to the books managed by BSM, provided the market risk can be neutralised.
The net exposure is typically managed by BSM through the use of fixed rate government bonds liquid assets held in available-for-sale books and interest rate swaps.
The interest rate risk arising from fixed rate government bonds held within available-for-sale portfolios is reflected within the Groups non-traded VaR.
Interest rate swaps used by BSM are typically classified as either a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge and are included within the Groups non-traded VaR.
Any market risk that cannot be neutralised in the market is managed by local ALCO in segregated ALCO books.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 225 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Appendix to Risk Policies and practices Credit spread risk for available-for-sale debt instruments The risk associated with movements in credit spreads is primarily managed through sensitivity limits, stress testing and VaR.
The VaR shows the effect on income from a one-day movement in credit spreads over a two-year period, calculated to a 99% confidence interval.
Equity securities classified as available for sale Potential new commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical concentrations remain within acceptable levels for the portfolio.
Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the valuation of the investments within the portfolio and investments held to facilitate ongoing business, such as holdings in government-sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges.
Structural foreign exchange exposures Unaudited Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, the functional currencies of which are currencies other than the US dollar.
An entitys functional currency is that of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
Exchange differences on structural exposures are recognised in Other comprehensive income.
We use the US dollar as our presentation currency in our consolidated financial statements because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency bloc in which we transact and fund our business.
Our consolidated balance sheet is, therefore, affected by exchange differences between the US dollar and all the non-US dollar functional currencies of underlying subsidiaries.
We hedge structural foreign exchange exposures only in limited circumstances.
Our structural foreign exchange exposures are managed with the primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that our consolidated capital ratios and the capital ratios of individual banking subsidiaries are largely protected from the effect of changes in exchange rates.
This is usually achieved by ensuring that, for each subsidiary bank, the ratio of structural exposures in a given currency to risk-weighted assets denominated in that currency is broadly equal to the capital ratio of the subsidiary in question.
We may also transact hedges where a currency in which we have structural exposures is considered likely to revalue adversely, and it is possible in practice to transact a hedge.
Any hedging is undertaken using forward foreign exchange contracts which are accounted for under IFRSs as hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, or by financing with borrowings in the same currencies as the functional currencies involved.
Non-trading interest rate risk Unaudited Non-trading interest rate risk in non-trading portfolios arises principally from mismatches between the future yield on assets and their funding cost, as a result of interest rate changes.
Analysis of this risk is complicated by having to make assumptions on embedded optionality within certain product areas such as the incidence of mortgage prepayments, and from behavioural assumptions regarding the economic duration of liabilities which are contractually repayable on demand such as current accounts, and the re-pricing behaviour of managed rate products.
These assumptions around behavioural features are captured in our interest rate risk behaviouralisation framework, which is described below.
We aim, through our management of market risk in non-trading portfolios, to mitigate the effect of prospective interest rate movements which could reduce future net interest income, while balancing the cost of such hedging activities on the current net revenue stream.
Analysis of interest rate risk is complicated by having to make assumptions on embedded optionality within certain product areas such as the incidence of mortgage prepayments.
Our funds transfer pricing policies give rise to a two stage funds transfer pricing approach.
Interest rate risk behaviouralisation Unlike liquidity risk, which is assessed on the basis of a very severe stress scenario, non-trading interest rate risk is assessed and managed according to business-as-usual conditions.
In many cases the contractual profile of non-trading assets liabilities arising from assets liabilities created outside Markets or BSM does not reflect the behaviour observed.
Behaviouralisation is therefore used to assess the market interest rate risk of non-trading assets liabilities and this assessed market risk is transferred to BSM, in accordance with the rules governing the transfer of interest rate risk from the global businesses to BSM.
Behaviouralisation is applied in three key areas: the assessed re-pricing frequency of managed rate balances: the assessed duration of non-interest bearing balances, typically capital and current accounts: and the base case expected prepayment behaviour or pipeline take-up rate for fixed rate balances with embedded optionality.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 226 Interest rate behaviouralisation policies have to be formulated in line with the Groups behaviouralisation policies and approved at least annually by local ALCO, regional ALCM and Group ALCM, in conjunction with local, regional and Group market risk monitoring teams.
The extent to which balances can be behaviouralised is driven by: the amount of the current balance that can be assessed as stable under business-as-usual conditions: and for managed rate balances, the historic market interest rate re-pricing behaviour observed: or for non-interest bearing balances, the duration for which the balance is expected to remain under business-as-usual conditions.
This assessment is often driven by the re-investment tenors available to BSM to neutralise the risk through the use of fixed rate government bonds or interest rate derivatives, and for derivatives the availability of cash flow hedging capacity.
Balance Sheet Management Effective governance across BSM is supported by the dual reporting lines it has to the CEO of GB&M and to the Group Treasurer.
In each operating entity, BSM is responsible for managing liquidity and funding under the supervision of the local ALCO which usually meets on a monthly basis.
It also manages the non-trading interest rate positions transferred to it within a Global Markets limit structure.
In executing the management of the liquidity risk on behalf of ALCO, and managing the non-trading interest rate positions transferred to it, BSM invests in highly-rated liquid assets in line with the Groups liquid asset policy.
The majority of the liquidity is invested in central bank deposits and government, supranational and agency securities with most of the remainder held in short-term interbank and central bank loans.
Withdrawable central bank deposits are accounted for as cash balances.
Interbank loans, statutory central bank reserves and loans to central banks are accounted for as loans and advances to banks.
BSMs holdings of securities are accounted for as available-for-sale or, to a lesser extent, held-to-maturity assets.
Statutory central bank reserves are not recognised as liquid assets.
The statutory reserves that would be released in line with the Groups stressed customer deposit outflow assumptions are reflected as stressed inflows.
BSM is permitted to use derivatives as part of its mandate to manage interest rate risk.
Derivative activity is predominantly through the use of vanilla interest rate swaps which are part of cash flow hedging and fair value hedging relationships.
Credit risk in BSM is predominantly limited to short-term bank exposure created by interbank lending, exposure to central banks and high quality sovereigns, supranationals or agencies which constitute the majority of BSMs liquidity portfolio.
BSM does not manage the structural credit risk of any Group entity balance sheets.
BSM is permitted to enter into single name and index credit derivatives activity, but it does so to manage credit risk on the exposure specific to its securities portfolio in limited circumstances only.
The risk limits are extremely limited and closely monitored.
At 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013, BSM had no open credit derivative index risk.
VaR is calculated on both trading and non-trading positions held in BSM.
It is calculated by applying the same methodology used for the Markets business and utilised as a tool for market risk control purposes.
BSM holds trading portfolio instruments in only very limited circumstances.
Positions and the associated VaR were not significant during 2014 and 2013.
Sensitivity of net interest income Unaudited A principal part of our management of market risk in non-trading portfolios is to monitor the sensitivity of projected net interest income under varying interest rate scenarios simulation modelling.
This monitoring is undertaken at an entity level by local ALCOs.
Entities apply a combination of scenarios and assumptions relevant to their local businesses, and standard scenarios which are required throughout HSBC.
The latter are consolidated to illustrate the combined pro forma effect on our consolidated net interest income.
Projected net interest income sensitivity figures represent the effect of the pro forma movements in net interest income based on the projected yield curve scenarios and the Groups current interest rate risk profile.
This effect, however, does not incorporate actions which would probably be taken by BSM or in the business units to mitigate the effect of interest rate risk.
In reality, BSM seeks proactively to change the interest rate risk profile to minimise losses and optimise net revenues.
The net interest income sensitivity calculations assume that interest rates of all maturities move by the same amount in the up-shock scenario.
Rates are not assumed to become negative in the down-shock scenario which may, in certain currencies, effectively result in non-parallel shock.
In addition, the net interest income sensitivity calculations take account of the effect on net interest income of anticipated differences in changes between interbank interest rates and interest rates over which the entity has discretion in terms of the timing and extent of rate changes.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 227 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Appendix to Risk Policies and practices Defined benefit pension schemes Audited Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension schemes to the extent that the obligations of the schemes are not fully matched by assets with determinable cash flows.
Pension scheme obligations fluctuate with changes in long-term interest rates, inflation, salary levels and the longevity of scheme members.
Pension scheme assets include equities and debt securities, the cash flows of which change as equity prices and interest rates and credit risk vary.
There is a risk that market movements in equity prices and interest rates could result in asset values which, taken together with regular ongoing contributions, are insufficient over time to cover the level of projected obligations and these, in turn, could increase with a rise in inflation and members living longer.
Management and, in certain instances, trustees who act on behalf of the pension schemes beneficiaries assess these risks using reports prepared by independent external consultants, take action and, where appropriate, adjust investment strategies and contribution levels accordingly.
HSBC Holdings Audited As a financial services holding company, HSBC Holdings has limited market risk activity.
Its activities predominantly involve maintaining sufficient capital resources to support the Groups diverse activities: allocating these capital resources across our businesses: earning dividend and interest income on its investments in our businesses: providing dividend payments to HSBC Holdings equity shareholders and interest payments to providers of debt capital: and maintaining a supply of short-term capital resources for deployment under extraordinary circumstances.
It does not take proprietary trading positions.
The main market risks to which HSBC Holdings is exposed are non-trading interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
Exposure to these risks arises from short-term cash balances, funding positions held, loans to subsidiaries, investments in long-term financial assets and financial liabilities including debt capital issued.
The objective of HSBC Holdings market risk management strategy is to reduce exposure to these risks and minimise volatility in capital resources, cash flows and distributable reserves.
Market risk for HSBC Holdings is monitored by HSBC Holdings ALCO in accordance with its risk appetite statement.
HSBC Holdings uses interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk and foreign currency risk arising from its long-term debt issues.
Operational risk Unaudited The objective of our operational risk management is to manage and control operational risk in a cost effective manner within targeted levels of operational risk consistent with our risk appetite, as defined by the GMB.
Operational risk is organised as a specific risk discipline within Global Risk, and a formal governance structure provides oversight over its management.
The Global Operational Risk function reports to the Group Chief Risk Officer and supports the Global Operational Risk Committee.
It is responsible for establishing and maintaining the operational risk management framework ORMF and monitoring the level of operational losses and the effectiveness of the control environment.
It is also responsible for operational risk reporting at Group level, including the preparation of reports for consideration by the Risk Management Meeting and Group Risk Committee.
The Global Operational Risk Committee meets at least quarterly to discuss key risk issues and review the effective implementation of the ORMF.
The ORMF defines minimum standards and processes and the governance structure for the management of operational risk and internal control in our geographical regions, global businesses and global functions.
The ORMF has been codified in a high level standards manual supplemented with detailed policies which describes our approach to identifying, assessing, monitoring and controlling operational risk and gives guidance on mitigating action to be taken when weaknesses are identified.
Business managers throughout the Group are responsible for maintaining an acceptable level of internal control commensurate with the scale and nature of operations, and for identifying and assessing risks, designing controls and monitoring the effectiveness of these controls.
The ORMF helps managers to fulfil these responsibilities by defining a standard risk assessment methodology and providing a tool for the systematic reporting of operational loss data.
A centralised database is used to record the results of the operational risk management process.
Operational risk and control self-assessments are input and maintained by business units.
Business and functional management and Business Risk and Control Managers monitor the progress of documented action plans to address shortcomings.
To ensure that operational risk losses are consistently reported and monitored at Group level, all Group companies are required to report individual losses when the net loss is expected to exceed US$10,000, and to aggregate all other operational risk losses under US$10,000.
Losses are entered into the Group Operational Risk database and are reported to the Risk Management Meeting on a monthly basis.
For further details, see the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2014 report.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 228 Compliance risk Unaudited Compliance risk falls within the definition of operational risk.
All Group companies are required to observe the letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, rules, regulations and standards of good market practice.
These rules, regulations, standards and Group policies include those relating to anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and corruption, counterterrorist and proliferation financing, sanctions compliance, conduct of business, market conduct and other financial regulations.
The two Compliance sub-functions: Financial Crime Compliance FCC and Regulatory Compliance RC, are appropriately supported by shared Compliance Chief Operating Officer, Assurance and Reputational Risk Management teams.
The Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance and the Global Head of Regulatory Compliance both report to the Group Chief Risk Officer.
There are compliance teams in each of the countries where we operate and in all global businesses.
These compliance teams are principally overseen by Heads of Financial Crime Compliance and Regulatory Compliance located in Europe, the US, Canada, Latin America, Asia and the Middle East and North Africa.
The effectiveness of the regional and global business compliance teams are reviewed by the Assurance team.
Global policies and procedures require the prompt identification and escalation to Financial Crime Compliance or Regulatory Compliance of all actual or suspected breaches of any law, rule, regulation, policy or other relevant requirement.
These escalation procedures are supplemented by a requirement for the submission of compliance certificates at the half-year and year-end by all Group companies and functions detailing any known breaches as above.
The contents of these escalation and certification processes are reported to the Risk Management Meeting, the Group Risk Committee and the Board.
They are disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Report, as appropriate.
Our focus on compliance and conduct issues is further reinforced by the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, which reports to the Board on matters relating to financial crime and financial system abuse and provides a forward-looking perspective on financial crime risk.
In addition, the Conduct & Values Committee reports to the Board on matters relating to the responsible conduct of business and adherence to HSBCs Values.
In 2014, the new enhanced global AML and sanctions policies and a globally consistent approach to the management of conduct were approved by the Board as described in Compliance risk on page 189.
Legal risk Unaudited Each legal department is required to have processes and procedures in place to manage legal risk that conform to Group standards.
Legal risk falls within the definition of operational risk and includes: contractual risk, which is the risk of a member of HSBC suffering financial loss, legal or regulatory action or reputational damage because its rights and or obligations under a contract to which it is a party are technically defective: dispute risk, which is the risk of a member of HSBC suffering financial loss or reputational damage due to an adverse dispute environment or a failure to take appropriate steps to defend, prosecute and or resolve actual or threatened legal claims brought against or by a Group member: legislative risk, which is the risk that an HSBC company fails to adhere to the laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates: and non-contractual rights risk, which is the risk that a Group members assets are not properly owned or protected or are infringed by others or the infringement by a Group member of another partys rights.
Our global legal function assists management in controlling legal risk.
There are legal departments in 49 of the countries in which we operate.
In addition to the Group Legal function, there are regional legal functions in each of Europe, North America, Latin America, the Middle East and North Africa and Asia headed by regional General Counsels, and a global General Counsel responsible for each of the global businesses.
Global security and fraud risk Unaudited Security and fraud risk issues are managed at Group level by Global Security and Fraud Risk.
This unit, which has responsibility for information, fraud, contingency, financial intelligence, physical and geopolitical risks is fully integrated within the central Group Risk function.
This enables management to identify and mitigate the permutations of these and other non-financial risks to its business lines across the jurisdictions in which we operate.
The Information Security Risk function is responsible for defining the strategy and policy by which the organisation protects its information assets and services from compromise, corruption or loss, whether caused deliberately or inadvertently by internal or external parties.
It provides independent advice, guidance and oversight to the business about the effectiveness of information security controls and practices in place or being proposed.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 229 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Appendix to Risk Policies and practices The Fraud Risk function is responsible for ensuring that effective prevention, detection and investigation measures are in place against all forms of fraudulent activity, whether initiated internally or externally, and is available to support any part of the business.
To achieve that and to attain the level of integration needed to face the threat, the management of all types of fraud e. g. card fraud, non-card fraud and internal fraud, including investigations is established within one management structure and is part of the Global Risk function.
We use technology extensively to prevent and detect fraud.
For example, customers credit and debit card spending is monitored continuously and suspicious transactions are highlighted for verification, internet banking sessions are reviewed and transactions monitored in a similar way and all new account applications are screened for fraud.
We have a fraud systems strategy which is designed to provide minimum standards and allow easier sharing of best practices to detect fraud and minimise false alerts.
We have developed a holistic and effective anti-fraud strategy which, in addition to the use of advanced technology, includes fraud prevention policies and practices, the implementation of strong internal controls, investigations response teams and liaison with law enforcement where appropriate.
The Contingency Risk function is responsible for ensuring that the groups critical systems, processes and functions have the resilience to maintain continuity in the face of major disruptive events.
Within this wider risk, Business Continuity Management covers the pre-planning for recovery, seeking to minimise the adverse effects of major business disruption, either globally, regionally or within country, against a range of actual or emerging risks.
The pre-planning concentrates on the protection of customer services, our staff, revenue generation, the integrity of data and documents and meeting regulatory requirements.
Each business has its own recovery plan, which is developed following the completion of a Business Impact Analysis.
This determines how much time the business could sustain an outage before the level of losses becomes unacceptable, i. e. its criticality.
These plans are reviewed and tested every year.
The planning is undertaken against Group policy and standards and each business confirms in an annual compliance certificate that all have been met.
Should there be exceptions, these are raised and their short-term resolution is overseen by Group and regional business continuity teams.
It is important that plans are dynamic and meet all risks, particularly those of an emerging nature such as possible pandemics and cyber-attacks.
The ORMF is used to measure our resilience to these risks, and is confirmed to Group and regional risk committees.
Resilience is managed through various risk mitigation measures.
These include agreeing with IT acceptable recovery times of systems, ensuring our critical buildings have the correct infrastructure to enable ongoing operations, requiring critical vendors to have their own recovery plans and arranging with Group Insurance appropriate cover for business interruption costs.
The Financial Intelligence Unit is jointly administered by Security and Fraud Risk and Financial Crime Compliance.
It uses advanced analytics and subject matter expertise to detect indicators of financial crime in the Groups clients and counterparties.
The Physical Security function develops practical physical, electronic and operational counter-measures to ensure that the people, property and assets managed by the Group are protected from crime, theft, attack and groups hostile to HSBCs interests.
Geopolitical risk unit provides both regular and ad hoc reporting to business executives and senior Security and Fraud Risk management on geopolitical risk profiles and evolving threats in countries in which the Group operates.
This both enhances strategic business planning and provides an early view into developing security risks.
Security travel controls and guidance are also maintained.
Systems risk Unaudited Systems risk is the risk of failure or other deficiency in the automated platforms that support the Groups daily execution application systems and the systems infrastructure on which they reside data centres, networks and distributed computers.
The management of systems risk is overseen globally by the HSBC Technology and Services HTS organisation.
Oversight is provided through monthly risk management committee meetings that provide a comprehensive overview of existing and emerging top risks.
HTS line management manages the control environment over systems risks using risk and control assessments and scenario analysis.
Key risk indicators are used to assure a consistent basis of risk evaluation across geographical and line of business boundaries.
Material risks are monitored through the periodic testing of associated key controls.
Business-critical services have been identified through a central, global oversight body.
Quantitative scorecards, called risk appetite statements, are used for monitoring performance, and have been established for each of these services.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 230 Service Resilience and Systems Continuity Planning functions are in place to ensure systems meet agreed target service levels and, in the event of major disruptive events, can be recovered within recovery time objectives agreed with the business.
Vendor risk management Unaudited Our vendor risk management VRM programme is a global framework for managing risk with third party vendors, especially where we are reliant on outsourced agreements to provide critical services to our customers.
VRM contains a rigorous process to identify material contracts and their key risks and ensure controls are in place to manage and mitigate these risks.
Global and regional governance structures have been implemented to oversee vendor third party service providers.
Risk management of insurance operations Overview of insurance products Audited HSBC manufactures the following main classes of contract: life insurance contracts with discretionary participation features DPF : credit life insurance business: annuities: term assurance and critical illness policies: linked life insurance: investment contracts with DPF: unit-linked investment contracts: and other investment contracts including pension contracts written in Hong Kong.
We additionally write a small amount of non-life insurance business primarily covering personal and commercial property.
Nature and extent of risks Audited The majority of the risks in our Insurance business derive from manufacturing activities and can be categorised between financial risks and insurance risk: financial risks include market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Operational and sustainability risks are also present and are covered by the Groups respective overall risk management processes.
The following sections describe how financial risks and insurance risk are managed.
The assets of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are included within the consolidated risk disclosures on pages 111 to 203, although separate disclosures in respect of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are provided in the Risk management of insurance operations section on pages 190 to 198.
Insurance manufacturers establish control procedures complying with the guidelines and requirements issued by Group Insurance and local regulatory requirements.
Country level oversight is exercised by local risk management committees.
Country Chief Risk Officers have direct reporting lines into local Insurance Chief Executive Officers and functional reporting lines into the Group Insurance Chief Risk Officer, who has overall accountability for risk management in insurance operations globally.
The Group Insurance Executive Committee oversees the control framework globally and is accountable to the RBWM Risk Management Committee on risk matters.
In addition, local ALCOs monitor and review the duration and cash flow matching of insurance assets and liabilities.
All insurance products, whether manufactured internally or by a third party, are subjected to a product approval process prior to introduction.
Financial risks Audited Our insurance businesses are exposed to a range of financial risks, including market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Market risk includes interest rate, equity and foreign exchange risks.
The nature and management of these risks is described below.
Manufacturing subsidiaries are exposed to financial risks when, for example, the proceeds from financial assets are not sufficient to fund the obligations arising from insurance and investment contracts.
In many jurisdictions, local regulatory requirements prescribe the type, quality and concentration of assets that these subsidiaries must maintain to meet insurance liabilities.
These requirements complement Group-wide policies.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 231 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Appendix to Risk Policies and practices Market risk Audited Description of market risk The main features of products manufactured by our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries which generate market risk, and the market risk to which these features expose the subsidiaries, are discussed below.
Interest rate risk arises to the extent that yields on the assets are lower than the investment returns implied by the guarantees payable to policyholders by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
When the asset yields are below guaranteed yields, products may be closed to new business, repriced or restructured.
A list of the different types of guarantees within our insurance contracts is outlined below.
Categories of guaranteed benefits annuities in payment: deferred immediate annuities: these consist of two phases the savings and investing phase and the retirement income phase: annual return: the annual return is guaranteed to be no lower than a specified rate.
This may be the return credited to the policyholder every year, or the average annual return credited to the policyholder over the life of the policy, which may occur on the maturity date or the surrender date of the contract: and capital: policyholders are guaranteed to receive no less than the premiums paid plus declared bonuses less expenses.
The proceeds from insurance and investment products with DPF are primarily invested in bonds with a proportion allocated to other asset classes in order to provide customers with the potential for enhanced returns.
Subsidiaries with portfolios of such products are exposed to the risk of falls in market prices which cannot be fully reflected in the discretionary bonuses.
An increase in market volatility could also result in an increase in the value of the guarantee to the policyholder.
Long-term insurance and investment products typically permit the policyholder to surrender the policy or let it lapse at any time.
When the surrender value is not linked to the value realised from the sale of the associated supporting assets, the subsidiary is exposed to market risk.
In particular, when customers seek to surrender their policies when asset values are falling, assets may have to be sold at a loss to fund redemptions.
A subsidiary holding a portfolio of long-term insurance and investment products, especially with DPF, may attempt to reduce exposure to its local market by investing in assets in countries other than that in which it is based.
These assets may be denominated in currencies other than the subsidiarys local currency.
Where the foreign exchange exposure associated with these assets is not hedged, for example because it is not cost effective to do so, this exposes the subsidiary to the risk of its local currency strengthening against the currency of the related assets.
For unit-linked contracts, market risk is substantially borne by the policyholder, but market risk exposure typically remains as fees earned for management are related to the market value of the linked assets.
Asset and liability matching It is not always possible to match asset and liability durations, partly because there is uncertainty over policyholder behaviour which introduces uncertainty over the receipt of all future premiums and the timing of claims, and partly because the forecast payment dates of liabilities may exceed the duration of the longest dated investments available.
We use models to assess the effect of a range of future scenarios on the values of financial assets and associated liabilities, and ALCOs employ the outcomes in determining how to best structure asset holdings to support liabilities.
The scenarios include stresses applied to factors which affect insurance risk such as mortality and lapse rates.
Of particular importance is assessing the expected pattern of cash inflows against the benefits payable on the underlying contracts, which can extend for many years.
Our current portfolio of assets includes debt securities issued at a time when yields were higher than those observed in the current market.
As a result, yields on extant holdings of debt securities exceed those available on current issues.
We reduced short-term bonus rates paid to policyholders on certain participating contracts to manage the immediate strain on the business.
Should interest rates and yield curves remain low further reductions may be necessary.
How market risk is managed All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have market risk mandates which specify the investment instruments in which they are permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of market risk which they may retain.
They manage market risk by using some or all of the techniques listed below, depending on the nature of the contracts they write.
Techniques for managing market risk for products with DPF, adjusting bonus rates to manage the liabilities to policyholders.
The effect is that a significant portion of the market risk is borne by the policyholder: structuring asset portfolios to support projected liability cash flows: using derivatives, to a limited extent, to protect against adverse market movements or better match liability cash flows: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 232 for new products with investment guarantees, considering the cost when determining the level of premiums or the price structure: periodically reviewing products identified as higher risk, which contain investment guarantees and embedded optionality features linked to savings and investment products: including features designed to mitigate market risk in new products, such as charging surrender penalties to recoup losses incurred when policyholders surrender their policies: exiting, to the extent possible, investment portfolios whose risk is considered unacceptable: and repricing of premiums charged to policyholders.
In the product approval process, the risks embedded in new products are identified and assessed.
When, for example, options and guarantees are embedded in new products, the due diligence process ensures that complete and appropriate risk management procedures are in place.
For all but the simplest of guaranteed benefits the assessment is undertaken by Group Insurance.
Management reviews certain exposures more frequently when markets are more volatile to ensure that any matters arising are dealt with in a timely fashion.
How the exposure to market risk is measured Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries monitor exposures against mandated limits regularly and report them to Group Insurance.
Exposures are aggregated and reported on a quarterly basis to senior risk management forums in Group Insurance.
In addition, large insurance manufacturing subsidiaries perform a high-level monthly assessment of market risk exposure against risk appetite.
This is submitted to Group Insurance and a global assessment presented to the RBWM Risk Management Committee.
Standard measures for quantifying market risks for interest rate risk, the sensitivities of the net present values of asset and expected liability cash flows, in total and by currency, to a one basis point parallel shift in the discount curves used to calculate the net present values: for equity price risk, the total market value of equity holdings and the market value of equity holdings by region and country: and for foreign exchange risk, the total net short foreign exchange position and the net foreign exchange positions by currency.
The standard measures are relatively straightforward to calculate and aggregate, but they have limitations.
The most significant one is that a parallel shift in yield curves of one basis point does not capture the non-linear relationships between the values of certain assets and liabilities and interest rates.
Non-linearity arises, for example, from investment guarantees and product features which enable policyholders to surrender their policies.
We bear the shortfall if the yields on investments held to support contracts with guaranteed benefits are less than the investment returns implied by the guaranteed benefits.
We recognise these limitations and augment our standard measures with stress tests which examine the effect of a range of market rate scenarios on the aggregate annual profits and total equity of our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, after taking into consideration tax and accounting treatments where material and relevant.
The results of these tests are reported to Group Insurance and risk committees every quarter.
The table, Sensitivity of HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to market risk factors on page 195, indicates the sensitivity of insurance manufacturers profit and total equity to market risk factors.
Credit risk Audited Description of credit risk Credit risk arises in two main areas for our insurance manufacturers: i risk of default by debt security counterparties after investing premiums to generate a return for policyholders and shareholders: and ii risk of default by reinsurance counterparties and non-reimbursement for claims made after ceding insurance risk.
How credit risk is managed Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are responsible for the credit risk, quality and performance of their investment portfolios.
Our assessment of the creditworthiness of issuers and counterparties is based primarily upon internationally recognised credit ratings and other publicly available information.
Investment credit exposures are monitored against limits by our local insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, and are aggregated and reported to Group Insurance Credit Risk and Group Credit Risk.
Stress testing is performed by Group Insurance on the investment credit exposures using credit spread sensitivities and default probabilities.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 233 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Appendix to Risk Policies and practices We use a number of tools to manage and monitor credit risk.
These include a Credit Watch Report which contains a watch-list of investments with current credit concerns and is circulated fortnightly to senior management in Group Insurance and the individual Country Chief Risk Officers to identify investments which may be at risk of future impairment.
Liquidity risk Audited Description of liquidity risk It is an inherent characteristic of almost all insurance contracts that there is uncertainty over the amount of claims liabilities that may arise and the timing of their settlement, and this creates liquidity risk.
There are three aspects to liquidity risk.
The first arises in normal market conditions and is referred to as funding liquidity risk: specifically, the capacity to raise sufficient cash when needed to meet payment obligations.
Secondly, market liquidity risk arises when the size of a particular holding may be so large that a sale cannot be completed around the market price.
Finally, standby liquidity risk refers to the capacity to meet payment terms in abnormal conditions.
How liquidity risk is managed Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries primarily fund cash outflows arising from claim liabilities from the following sources of cash inflows: premiums from new business, policy renewals and recurring premium products: interest and dividends on investments and principal repayments of maturing debt investments: cash resources: and the sale of investments.
They manage liquidity risk by utilising some or all of the following techniques: matching cash inflows with expected cash outflows using specific cash flow projections or more general asset and liability matching techniques such as duration matching: maintaining sufficient cash resources: investing in good credit-quality investments with deep and liquid markets to the degree to which they exist: monitoring investment concentrations and restricting them where appropriate, for example, by debt issues or issuers: and establishing committed contingency borrowing facilities.
Each of these techniques contributes to mitigating the three types of liquidity risk described above.
Every quarter, our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are required to complete and submit liquidity risk reports to Group Insurance for collation and review.
Liquidity risk is assessed in these reports by measuring changes in expected cumulative net cash flows under a series of stress scenarios designed to determine the effect of reducing expected available liquidity and accelerating cash outflows.
This is achieved, for example, by assuming new business or renewals are lower, and surrenders or lapses are greater, than expected.
Insurance risk Audited Insurance risk is the risk, other than financial risk, of loss transferred from the holder of the insurance contract to the issuer HSBC.
The principal risk we face in manufacturing insurance contracts is that, over time, the cost of acquiring and administering a contract, claims and benefits may exceed the aggregate amount of premiums received and investment income.
The cost of claims and benefits can be influenced by many factors, including mortality and morbidity experience, lapse and surrender rates and, if the policy has a savings element, the performance of the assets held to support the liabilities.
Insurance risks are controlled by high-level policies and procedures set both centrally and locally, taking into account where appropriate local market conditions and regulatory requirements.
Formal underwriting, reinsurance and claimshandling procedures designed to ensure compliance with regulations are applied, supplemented with stress testing.
As well as exercising underwriting controls, we use reinsurance as a means of mitigating exposure to insurance risk.
Where we manage our exposure to insurance risk through the use of third-party reinsurers, the associated revenue and manufacturing profit is ceded to the reinsurers.
Although reinsurance provides a means of managing insurance risk, such contracts expose us to credit risk, the risk of default by the reinsurer.
The principal drivers of our insurance risk are described below.
The liabilities for long-term contracts are set by reference to a range of assumptions around these drivers.
These typically reflect the issuers own experiences.
The type and quantum of insurance risk arising from life insurance depends on the type of business, and varies considerably.
mortality and morbidity: the main contracts which generate exposure to these risks are term assurance, whole life products, critical illness and income protection contracts and annuities.
The risks are monitored on a regular basis, HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 234 and are primarily mitigated by underwriting controls and reinsurance and by retaining the ability in certain cases to amend premiums in the light of experience: lapses and surrenders: the risks associated with this are generally mitigated by product design, the application of surrender charges and management actions, for example, managing the level of bonus payments to policyholders.
A detailed persistency analysis at a product level is carried out at least on an annual basis: and expense risk is mitigated by pricing, for example, retaining the ability in certain cases to amend premiums and or policyholder charges based on experience, and cost management discipline.
Liabilities are affected by changes in assumptions see Sensitivity analysis on page 198.
Reputational risk Unaudited We regularly review our policies and procedures for safeguarding against reputational risk.
This is an evolutionary process which takes account of relevant developments, industry guidance, best practice and societal expectations.
We have always aspired to the highest standards of conduct and, as a matter of routine, take account of reputational risks to our business.
Reputational risks can arise from a wide variety of causes.
As a banking group, our good reputation depends not only upon the way in which we conduct our business, but also by the way in which clients to whom we provide financial services, and our vendors, conduct themselves.
The Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance and the Global Head of Regulatory Compliance are the risk stewards for reputational risk.
The development of policies, and an effective control environment for the identification, assessment, management and mitigation of reputational risk, is co-ordinated through the Group Reputational Risk Policy Committee GRRPC, which is chaired by the Group Chairman.
The primary role of the GRRPC is to consider areas and activities presenting significant reputational risk and, where appropriate, to make recommendations to the Group Risk Management Meeting for policy or procedural changes to mitigate such risk.
Each of the Groups geographical regions is required to ensure that reputational risks are also considered at a regional level, either through a special section of their respective Regional Risk Management Committee meetings, or a Regional Reputational Risk Policy Committee.
A summary of the minutes from the regional meetings is tabled at GRRPC.
Significant issues posing reputational risk are reported to Group Risk Committee and the Holdings Board and, where appropriate, to the Conduct & Values Committee.
In July 2014, the new Reputational Risk and Customer Selection policies were issued which define a consistent and structured approach to managing these risks.
For further details, see Reputational risk on page 199.
Each of the global businesses and functions is required to have a procedure to assess and address reputational risks potentially arising from proposed business transactions and client activity.
These are supported by a central team which ensures that issues are directed to the appropriate forum, that decisions taken are implemented and that management information is collated and actions reported to senior management.
In 2014, the combined Reputational Risk and Client Selection committees were created within the global businesses with a clear process to escalate and address matters at the appropriate level.
The global functions manage and escalate reputational risks within established operational risk frameworks.
Standards on all major aspects of business are set for HSBC and for individual subsidiaries, businesses and functions.
Reputational risks, including environmental, social and governance matters, are considered and assessed by the Board, the GMB, the Risk Management Meeting, the Global Standards Steering Meeting, subsidiary company boards, Board committees and senior management during the formulation of policy and the establishment of our standards.
These policies, which form an integral part of the internal control system see page 288, are communicated through manuals and statements of policy and are promulgated through internal communications and training.
The policies set out our risk appetite and operational procedures in all areas of reputational risk, including money laundering deterrence, counterterrorist financing, environmental impact, anti-bribery and corruption measures and employee relations.
The policy manuals address risk issues in detail and co-operation between Group departments and businesses is required to ensure a strong adherence to our risk management system and our sustainability practices.
Fiduciary risk Unaudited Business activities in which fiduciary risk is inherent are only permitted within designated lines of business.
Fiduciary risk is managed within the designated businesses via a comprehensive policy framework and monitoring of key indicators.
The Groups principal fiduciary businesses and activities designated businesses and activities are: HSBC Securities Services, which is exposed to fiduciary risk via its Funds Services and Corporate Trust and loan agency activities: HSBC Global Asset Management, which is exposed to fiduciary risks via its investment management activities on behalf of clients: HSBC Global Private Banking, which is exposed to fiduciary risks via its private trust division and discretionary investment management: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 235 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Appendix to Risk Policies and practices HSBC Insurance, which is exposed to fiduciary risks via the investment management activities it undertakes when providing insurance products and services: RBWM Trust Investment Wrappers, required by regulation for the provision of normal RBWM Wealth Management products and services: and HSBC Employee Pension Scheme activities, where fiduciary duties may arise as part of carrying out a function of discretion or control over an HSBC employee pension scheme's operations.
The Groups requirements for the management of fiduciary risk are laid down in the fiduciary section of the Global Risk Functional Instruction Manual, which is owned by Global Operational Risk.
No business other than the designated businesses may undertake fiduciary activities without notifying Global Operational Risk and receiving specific dispensations from the relevant fiduciary policy requirements.
Other policies around the provision of advice, including investment advice and corporate advisory, and the management of potential conflicts of interest, also mitigate our fiduciary risks.
Pension risk Audited We operate a number of pension plans throughout the world, as described in the Pension risk section on page 200 and below.
In order to fund the benefits associated with defined benefit plans, sponsoring Group companies and, in some instances, employees make regular contributions in accordance with advice from actuaries and in consultation with the schemes trustees where relevant.
The defined benefit plans invest these contributions in a range of investments designed to meet their long-term liabilities.
The level of these contributions has a direct impact on HSBCs cash flow and would normally be set to ensure that there are sufficient funds to meet the cost of the accruing benefits for the future service of active members.
However, higher contributions will be required when plan assets are considered insufficient to cover the existing pension liabilities.
Contribution rates are typically revised annually or triennially, depending on the plan.
The agreed contributions to the principal plan are revised triennially.
A deficit in a defined benefit plan may arise from a number of factors, including: investments delivering a return below that required to provide the projected plan benefits.
This could arise, for example, when there is a fall in the market value of equities, or when increases in long-term interest rates cause a fall in the value of fixed income securities held: the prevailing economic environment leading to corporate failures, thus triggering write-downs in asset values both equity and debt : a change in either interest rates or inflation which causes an increase in the value of the scheme liabilities: and scheme members living longer than expected known as longevity risk.
A plans investment strategy is determined after taking into consideration the market risk inherent in the investments and its consequential impact on potential future contributions.
The long-term investment objectives of both HSBC and, where relevant and appropriate, the trustees are: to limit the risk of the assets failing to meet the liabilities of the plans over the long-term: and to maximise returns consistent with an acceptable level of risk so as to control the long-term costs of the defined benefit plans.
In pursuit of these long-term objectives, a benchmark is established for the allocation of the defined benefit plan assets between asset classes.
In addition, each permitted asset class has its own benchmarks, such as stock market or property valuation indices and, where relevant, desired levels of out-performance.
The benchmarks are reviewed at least triennially within 18 months of the date at which an actuarial valuation is made, or more frequently if required by local legislation or circumstances.
The process generally involves an extensive asset and liability review.
Ultimate responsibility for investment strategy rests with either the trustees or, in certain circumstances, a management committee.
The degree of independence of the trustees from HSBC varies in different jurisdictions.
Defined contribution plans result in far less exposure to market risk for the bank, but remain exposed to operational and reputational risks as they place the responsibility and flexibility more directly with employees.
To manage these risks, the performance of defined contribution investment funds are monitored and local engagement with employees is actively promoted to ensure they are provided with sufficient information about the options available to them.
Pension plans in the UK The HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme the principal plan has both defined benefit and defined contribution sections.
The defined benefit section accounts for approximately 72% of our total defined benefit obligations around the world.
The defined benefit section was closed to new entrants in 1996 and from 1 July 2015 it will be closed to further accrual for HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 236 current employees who are in that section, who will join the defined contribution section for future pensions.
All new employees have joined the defined contribution section since 1996.
The principal plan is overseen by an independent corporate trustee who has a fiduciary responsibility for the operation of the pension plan.
The trustee is responsible for monitoring and managing the investment strategy and administration of scheme benefits.
The principal plan holds a diversified portfolio of investments to meet future cash flow liabilities arising from accrued benefits as they fall due to be paid.
The trustee of the principal plan is required to produce a written Statement of Investment Principles which governs decision-making about how investments are made and the need for adequate diversification is taken into account in the choice of asset allocation and manager structure in the defined benefit section.
Longevity risk in the principal plan is assessed as part of the measurement of the pension liability and managed through the funding process of the plan.
Sustainability risk Unaudited Sustainability risks arise from the provision of financial services to companies or projects which run counter to the needs of sustainable development: in effect, this risk arises when the environmental and social effects outweigh economic benefits.
Within Group Head Office, a separate function, Global Corporate Sustainability, is mandated to manage these risks globally working through local offices as appropriate.
Sustainability Risk Managers have regional or national responsibilities for advising on and managing environmental and social risks.
Global Corporate Sustainabilitys risk management responsibilities include: formulating sustainability risk policies.
This includes overseeing our sustainability risk standards, our application of the Equator Principles and our sustainability policies covering agricultural commodities, chemicals, defence, energy, forestry, freshwater infrastructure, mining and metals, and World Heritage Sites and Ramsar Wetlands : undertaking an independent review of transactions where sustainability risks are assessed to be high: and supporting our operating companies to assess similar risks of a lower magnitude: building and implementing systems-based processes to ensure consistent application of policies, reduce the costs of sustainability risk reviews and capture management information to measure and report on the effect of our lending and investment activities on sustainable development: and providing training and capacity building within our operating companies to ensure sustainability risks are identified and mitigated consistently to either our own standards, international standards or local regulations, whichever is higher.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 237 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
