Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Key Group risk factors Overview The key risk factors that may Assessmentof Group risk Cautionary statement affectthe Group are set out The Boards assessment of the key risks and The Strategic Report and certain other uncertainties facing the Group has remained onthefollowing pages.
sections of this Annual Report contain broadly unchanged over the past year, forward-looking statements that are Each risk is considered in the particularly with regard to illicit trade, excise, subject to risk factors associated with, tax and financial risk and regulation.
context of the Groups strategy, among other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from asset out in this Strategic Report The Board has, however, increased its focus time totime in the countries and markets on the risks associated with the deployment on pages 14 and 15.
Following a in which the Group operates.
It is believed of the Groups revised operating model and description of each risk, its causes that the expectations reflected in these single IT operating system.
The challenges and potential impacton the Group statements are reasonable but they may to deliver the Groups pricing strategy be affected by a wide range of variables are summarised.
Wealso explain in an increasingly aggressive competitor that could cause actual results to differ environment, the increased impact of market theactivities we are undertaking materially from those currently anticipated.
contraction, consumer down-trading and tomitigate each risk.
the risks of strategic litigation, were also The Group has identified, actively monitors considered by the Board.
These are now and is taking action to mitigate many different listedasprincipal risks facing the business.
This section does not include them all, The risk that the Group is unable to access but focuses on those risks that the Directors cash resources in a number of markets is believe to be the most important ones that no longer considered a principal risk for are currently faced by the business.
Not all of thepurpose of this years report.
these risks are within the control of the Group and other factors besides those listed may The Board also revised its view of the affect the Groups performance.
Some risks primarycauses of the risk of failure to may be unknown at present.
Others, currently leaddeveloping next-generation products regarded as immaterial, could become referredto as the non-tobacco nicotine material risks in the future.
The risk factors listed in this section and Details of each of these risks are set out the activities being undertaken to mitigate inthefollowing tables.
them should be considered in the context of the Groups internal control framework.
This is described in the section on risk management and internal control in the corporate governance statement on page 61.
This section should also be read in the context of the cautionary statement set out on the right.
30 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Key Group risk factors continued Marketplace risk factors Competition from illicit Failure to lead developing tobacco trade next-generation products Time frame Strategic impact Risk owner Time frame Strategic impact Risk owner Long term Growth organic Group Corporate Long term Growth Managing Director, revenue growth and Regulatory revenue growth Next-Generation Affairs Director and Sustainability Products reduced-risk products Illicit trade in the form of counterfeit products, smuggled genuine The Group recognises the risk of not capitalising on the opportunities products and locally manufactured products on which applicable in developing and successfully commercialising consumer-appealing taxes are evaded represents a significant and growing threat next-generation products, including those believed by scientific and tothelegitimate tobacco industry.
Most illicit products are sold at regulatory authorities as posing substantially reduced risks to health.
thebottom end of the market and in contravention of applicable Principal causes regulatory requirements.
Regulations that stifle the category, including those pertaining Excise increases can encourage more consumers to switch to cheaper to marketing freedom, product innovation, retail availability illegal tobacco products, providing greater rewards for smugglers.
The risk is exacerbated where current economic conditions have Failure to develop successful, consumer-appealing products resulted in high unemployment and or reduced disposable incomes.
androllthem out faster than competitors.
Global volume of illicit trade is estimated to be up to 12% of Potential impact consumption.
In the next decade, we believe that the problem is likely to increase, driven by the increased regulatory and compliance burden Consumer base, market share, profitability and achievement for legitimate manufacturers and further significant excise increases.
of growth targets will be undermined if competitors are more successful in establishing new categories or if regulation impedes Principal causes thegrowth of the category.
Unexpected and significant excise increases and widening excise While considered unlikely, equalisation of the regulatory framework differentials between markets.
for next-generation products with traditional cigarettes would Unintended consequences of regulation, e. g. plain packaging, tend to eliminate all business opportunities for the new category.
graphic warnings, display bans and ingredients restrictions.
Furthermore, equalising e-cigarettes to medicines would increase complexity, increase research and development R&D costs, reduce Extra compliance costs imposed on the legitimate industry giving the size of the opportunity and hinder the ability to introduce acompetitive advantage to illicit manufacturers.
Mitigation activities Lack of law enforcement and weak border controls.
Exclusive focus by a wholly-owned Group subsidiary, Nicovations Potential impact Limited, on the development and commercialisation of innovative regulatory approved nicotine products to enable the Group to Erosion of brand value, with lower volumes and reduced profits.
offer a consumer-acceptable alternative to cigarettes with lower Reduced ability to take price increases.
Investment in trade marketing and distribution is undermined.
Establishment of a next-generation products group with the Mitigation activities appointment of its own leadership team.
Dedicated Anti-Illicit Trade AIT teams operating at global and Appointment of senior R&D and product development executives country levels and internal cross-functional coordination.
and the adoption of a portfolio approach to new technologies.
Active engagement with key external stakeholders.
Improved Vype product portfolio launched in the UK, with further market launches planned.
Cross-industry and multi-sector cooperation on a range of AIT issues.
Regulatory plans in place for key markets.
Global AIT strategy supported by a research programme to further the understanding of the size and scope of the problem.
Ongoing mergers and acquisitions dialogue on potential next-generation products opportunities.
AIT Intelligence Unit including a dedicated analytical laboratory works with enforcement agencies in pursuit of priority targets.
Strong internal business conduct and customer approval policies.
31 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Key Group risk factors continued Marketplace risk factors continued Market size reduction and Inability to obtain price increases and impact consumer down-trading ofincreases on consumer affordability Time frame Strategic impact Risk owner Time frame Strategic impact Risk owner Short term Growth organic Regional Directors Short term Growth organic Regional Directors revenue growth revenue growth As a consequence of steep excise-led price increases and the Annual manufacturers price increases are among the key drivers continuing difficult economic and regulatory environment in many inincreasing market profitability.
The Group faces a risk that such countries, market contraction and consumer down-trading are priceincreases will not materialise.
expected to remain principal risks facing the Group.
A number of Principal causes instances of market contraction have arisen, particularly in Europe, Increased regulation reduces the ability to build brand equity Australia, Brazil and Russia.
andenhance the value proposition to the consumer.
Principal causes Stretched consumer affordability arising from deteriorating Downturn in the economic climate impacting consumers economic conditions and rising prices.
Sharp increase or change in excise structure reduces opportunities Changes in the regulatory environment.
Targeted growth of low-priced brands through aggressive pricing.
Potential impact Potential impact Not achieving strategic growth metrics.
Volume decline and portfolio mix erosion.
Funds to invest in growth opportunities are reduced.
Volumes may reduce faster than anticipated due to accelerated market decline.
Mitigation activities Geographic spread mitigates impact at Group level.
Down-trading and growth of illicit trade.
Quarterly brand reviews are presented to the Global Marketing Mitigation activities Leadership Team as well as to the Management Board.
Key market and pricing reviews at Management Board meetings.
Economic outlook embedded into quarterly performance reviews Pricing, excise and trade margin committees exist in all markets in markets.
Key market reviews at Management Board meetings.
Robust business cases underpinning key innovative launches.
Close monitoring of sales volume by segment to detect changes Clear portfolio and pricing strategies, ensuring a balanced portfolio inconsumer purchasing patterns in markets.
ofstrong brands across key segments.
Clear portfolio and pricing strategies, ensuring balanced portfolio ofstrong brands across key segments.
Increased focus behind product quality and innovation across allsegments to provide tangible differentiation and improve the price-value ratio.
Overlap with many mitigation activities undertaken for other principal risks facing the Group, such as competition from illicit tobacco trade, significant excise increases or structure changes andinability to obtain price increases.
32 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT P Ka ey G ge T rio tl u ep risk factors continued Excise and tax risk factors Significant excise increases Disputed taxes, or structure changes interest and penalties Time frame Strategic impact Risk owner Time frame Strategic impact Risk owner Short term and Growth organic Regional Directors Short term Productivity Finance Director long term revenue growth capital effectiveness Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise and sales taxes The Group may face significant financial penalties, including in most countries in which the Group operates.
In many of these thepayment of interest, in the event of an unfavourable ruling countries, taxes are generally increasing, but the rate of increase varies byataxauthority in a disputed area.
country by country and between different types of tobacco products.
Principal causes A number of significant excise increases have taken place over the Unfavourable ruling by tax authorities in disputed areas and past three years, for example in Australia, Russia, Brazil, South Korea, aggressive auditing and or pursuit of tax claims.
Indonesia, Turkey, the Philippines and New Zealand.
To date, the Potential impact Group has been able to balance these increases with its geographic spread, and continues to develop effective measures to address the risk.
Significant fines and potential legal penalties.
Principal causes Disruption and loss of focus on the business due to diversion ofmanagement time.
Fiscal pressures for higher government revenues.
Impact on profit and dividend.
Increases advocated within the context of national health policies.
Mitigation activities Insufficient opportunity to engage with stakeholders in meaningful dialogue.
Potential impact Internal tax function provides dedicated advice and guidance, andexternal advice sought where needed.
Consumers reject the Groups legitimate tax-paid products for products from illicit sources.
Engagement with tax authorities at Group, regional and individual market level.
Reduced sales volume and or portfolio erosion.
Some absorption of excise increases.
Mitigation activities Requirement for Group companies to have in place formal pricing and excise strategies including contingency plans, with annual risk assessments.
Pricing, excise and trade margin committees in markets, with regional and global support.
Engagement with local tax and customs authorities, where appropriate, in particular in relation to the increased risk to excise revenues from higher illicit trade.
Portfolio reviews to ensure appropriate balance and coverage acrossprice segments.
Monitoring of economic indicators, government revenues and the political situation.
Central team in place to define the excise management framework, develop training materials, monitor and engage with international financial institutions on excise and anti-illicit trade matters.
33 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT P Ka ey G ge T rio tl u ep risk factors continued Finance risk factors Operations risk factors Foreign exchange Geopolitical tensions rate exposures Time frame Strategic impact Risk owner Time frame Strategic impact Risk owner Short term Productivity Finance Director Long term Growth organic Director, Legal capital effectiveness revenue growth The Group faces transactional and translational foreign exchange Geopolitical tensions, social unrest, terrorism and organised crime FX rate exposures for earnings cash flows from its global business.
havethe potential to disrupt the Groups business in multiple markets.
During periods of sterling strength and FX rate volatility, as seen in Principal causes 2014, the Groups results can be impacted negatively.
Regional and or global conflicts.
Principal causes Terrorism and political violence.
FX rate exposures arise from exchange rate movement against Criminal activity leading to attacks on our people, supply chain the functional currency and against sterling, the Groups orother assets.
Economic policy changes, including nationalisation of assets Potential impact andwithdrawal from international trade agreements.
Fluctuations in FX rates of key currencies against sterling introduce Potential impact volatility in reported EPS, cash flow and the balance sheet driven bytranslation into sterling of our financial results.
Potential loss of life, loss of assets and disruption to normal business processes.
The dividend may be impacted if the payout ratio is not adjusted.
Increased costs due to more complex supply chain arrangements Differences in translation between earnings and net debt may affect and or the cost of building new facilities or maintaining key ratios used by credit rating agencies.
Volatility and or increased costs in our business, due to transactional Reputational impact of inability to protect staff and assets from FX, may adversely impact financial performance.
Mitigation activities Mitigation activities While translational FX exposure is not hedged, its impact is Globally integrated sourcing strategy and contingency identifiedin results presentations and financial disclosures: sourcing arrangements.
earningsare re-stated at constant rates for comparability.
Security risk modelling, including external risk assessments Debt and interest are matched to assets and cash flows to and the monitoring of geopolitical and economic policy mitigatevolatility where possible and economic to do so.
Hedging strategy for transactional FX and framework is defined Insurance cover and business continuity planning, including inthe treasury policy and signed off by the Board.
scenarioplanning and testing and risk awareness training.
Illiquid currencies of many markets where hedging is either Security controls for field force, direct store sales and supply chain notpossible or uneconomic are reviewed on a regular basis.
withan emphasis on the protection of Group employees.
The treasury system provides visibility of FX exposures and the hedge portfolio.
34 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Key Group risk factors continued Operations risk factors continued Regulation risk factors Injury, illness or death Tobacco regulation inhibits in the workplace growth strategy Time frame Strategic impact Risk owner Time frame Strategic impact Risk owner Short term Sustainability Director, Operations Long term Growth organic Group Corporate revenue growth andRegulatory Affairs and Sustainability Director: Director, balanced regulation Operations: and Director, Marketing The Group is committed to operating responsibly by maintaining the The enactment of unreasonable regulation that prohibits the Groups necessary controls that safeguard the health, safety and welfare of the ability to communicate with consumers, differentiate our products and people who work for the Group and alongside it, as well as minimising launch future products.
This increases business costs and complexity.
the impact on the natural environment and the local communities in Principal causes which the Group conducts business activities.
The risk of injury, death Pressure from some international health organisations, governments or ill health to employees and those who work with the business is and the tobacco control community to pursue regulation and policy afundamental concern of the Group and can have a significant effect that: is not evidence-based: is designed to eradicate tobacco and on its operations.
nicotine use: excludes the industry from the manufacture and sale Principal causes of next-generation products or regulates them in a way that fails Failure to assess risk and implement appropriate control measures.
to incentivise their commercialisation: and fails to deliver legitimate public health objectives.
Failure to monitor, assess and implement the requirements of regulations that apply to Group sites and operations resulting Potential impact in non-compliance with environment, health and safety Erosion of brand value through commoditisation, the inability to EHS standards.
launch innovations, differentiate products, maintain or build brand equity and leverage price.
Insufficient information, instruction and training on health and safety at work.
Adverse impact on ability to compete within the legitimate tobacco industry and also with increased illicit trade.
Potential impact Serious injuries, ill health, disability or loss of life suffered by Reduced consumer acceptability of new product specifications, employees and the people who work with the Group.
leading to consumers seeking alternatives in illicit trade.
Exposure to civil and criminal liability and the risk of prosecution Shocks to share price on enactment of unduly onerous and from enforcement bodies and the cost of associated fines and restrictive regulation.
Reduced ability to compete in future product categories and make Interruption of Group operations if issues are not addressed quickly.
High staff turnover or difficulty recruiting employees if perceived Constriction of the retail universe and limitations on product visibility.
Increased scope and severity of compliance regimes in new regulation leading to higher costs, greater complexity and potential Mitigation activities reputational damage or fines for inadvertent breach.
Risk control systems in place to ensure equipment and infrastructure are provided and maintained.
Mitigation activities An EHS strategy ensures that employees at all levels receive Engagement and litigation strategy coordinated and aligned appropriate EHS training and information.
across the Group to drive a balanced global policy framework for tobacco control.
Behavioural-based safety programme to drive Operations safety performance and culture closer to zero accidents.
Prioritisation of key current and emerging regulatory issues.
Analysis of incidents undertaken regionally and globally to identify Stakeholder mapping and prioritisation, developing robust increasing incident trends or high potential risks that require compelling advocacy materials with supporting evidence and data, coordinated action to address.
Focused programmes within Marketing to address specific risks Regulatory risk assessment of marketing plans to ensure associated with sales and distribution activities.
decisions are informed by an understanding of the potential regulatory environments.
Dedicated global team to support management of EHS risks.
Advocating the application of our integrated regulatory proposals Key issues and incidents monitored regionally and reported globally to governments and public health practitioners based on the harm to oversee compliance.
Development of an integrated regulatory strategy that spans conventional combustibles and includes next-generation products.
35 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Key Group risk factors continued Programmes and project risk factors Litigation risk factors Deployment of the Groups revised operating Litigation model and single IT operating system TaO Time frame Strategic impact Risk owner Time frame Strategic impact Risk owner Short term Productivity globally Director, Business Long term Growth Director, Legal integrated enterprise Development revenue impact Risks of delays to the on-time, in-full delivery of the Groups revised Product liability, regulatory or other significant cases may be lost operating model and single IT operating system TaO, due to orcompromised resulting in a material loss or other consequence.
the complexity involved in the deployment.
This may result in Legal costs may increase significantly.
increased costs and or delaying the realisation of both qualitative Principal causes andquantitative benefits.
Case lost by either a non-Group or Group company may set Principal causes aprecedent for the filing of future claims against the Group.
The scale of change required is large as the scope is more than Cases are brought on the basis of the reversal of the burden of SAPimplementation and includes deploying the Groups revised proofwhich places the Group, as a defendant, at a disadvantage Target Operating Model.
e. g. Health Care Recoupment cases.
Resource constraints within the programme and regions.
Aggressive court time line or approach that undermines Assumptions are not fully correct or the ways identified for achieving defence preparation.
streamlined and uniform deployment are not sufficient.
Potential impact Planned infrastructure architecture and or SAP application may Damages and fines, negative impact on reputation, disruption notmeet the performance needs of high-order-volume markets.
andloss of focus on the business.
Markets that have implemented TaO affected by system downtime Consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial position due to potential lack of network resilience.
could be materially affected, in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal Potential impact year, by an unfavourable outcome or settlement of certain pending or future litigation.
Implementation of new ways of working may not be fully embedded until well after implementation delaying the delivery Mitigation activities ofthe benefits.
Consistent litigation strategy across the Group.
Resource not being available for TaO or business as usual adversely Expertise and legal talent maintained both within the Group impacting TaO benefits and or business results.
Deployment is delayed with a corresponding impact on Closer integration in Group litigation strategy and cost TaOprogramme costs and benefits realisation.
Benefits may not be realised due to failure to sustain the change post-TaO.
Potential business disruption in the regions for a longer period of time, impacting operations and ability to deliver other programmes and activities.
Poor response times in high volume markets could mean that batchtransaction processes do not complete on time.
This may impact key business processes, including sales.
System downtime could render markets that have implemented TaOunable to manufacture, move or sell.
Mitigation activities Importance of TaO understood and supported by senior management.
On-going stakeholder engagement and knowledge transfer at Regional senior management level.
Regular monitoring of the integrated plan and key dependencies.
Major risks and issues actively managed by TaO Leadership Team orwithin the relevant management layer as appropriate.
36 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
