42 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Risk management Identifying, assessing and mitigating risk effectively ICAPs risk profile As a world leading markets operator and provider of risk mitigation and information services, ICAP is predominantly exposed to operational, strategic, and liquidity risk.
ICAP has a very different risk profile from that of a bank, investment bank, asset manager, insurance company or hedge fund and does not engage in bank style risk taking in the course of its business.
ICAP only enters into transactions when executing on behalf of customers or providing customer access to clearing services.
ICAPs day-to-day business is not capital intensive and holds capital primarily to ensure continuity of business by covering future costs and short-term liquidity needs.
The profit and cash flows of the business are driven by the level of activity of its customers and do not depend on the valuation of its assets and liabilities.
The majority of ICAPs businesses have a fast conversion of revenue to cash.
As a predominantly fee earning organisation the third-party relationships and reputation ICAP holds and continues to build are central to ICAPs continued success.
The Group remains focused on maintaining and constantly strengthening relationships with shareholders, customers, regulators, lenders, clearing and settlement providers, market infrastructure providers and employees.
Groups business activities Business model is reliant on Risks Electronic Markets Relationships customers, employees Reputational damage Infrastructure including for clearing and settlement, IT Strategic event Regulatory licences Counterparty failure Short-term credit exposure to customers prior to clearing Lack of liquidity 30 minutes Operational event Liquidity to settle trades and meet margin calls Post Trade Risk and Relationships customers, employees Reputational damage Information services Infrastructure including IT Strategic event Regulatory licences Operational event Global Broking Relationships customers, employees Reputational damage Infrastructure including for clearing and settlement, IT Strategic event Regulatory licences Counterparty failure Short-term credit exposure to customers in the settlement cycle Lack of liquidity typically T 3 days Operational event Liquidity to settle trades and meet margin calls Market data infrastructure Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 43 The primary risk to ICAPs long-term financial success is reduction of As the second line of defence, the risk management and compliance commission revenue generated from its customers.
departments act as independent parties and ensure that an effective and fit-for-purpose risk and compliance framework and structure is in place Notwithstanding the above, ICAPs risk appetite is informed by its business and used appropriately by the business.
The risk management and strategy, internal initiatives and exogenous forces.
compliance departments also ensure and report that the business is operating within the Groups risk appetite as set by the board.
Governance and risk management framework As the third line of defence, internal audit provides independent testing and The board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk management framework and sets the Groups risk appetite based on regular assessment verification of business line compliance as well as assurance that the risk management process is functioning as designed.
of the Groups strategy and analysis of known and emerging risks.
The board monitors the risk profile of the Group using eight risk categories: For further details refer to page 65 of the governance section.
strategic, operational, liquidity, credit, legal and compliance, reputational, financial and market risk.
Example of risk management ICAP SEF application Our risk management framework is designed to manage and mitigate the risks that could impact our ability to execute our strategy.
To ensure a G20-led reforms to inject transparency into the $600 trillion swaps consistent risk management approach globally, the framework is used market resulted in ICAP capitalising on an opportunity for growth, while across all risk disciplines with the following pillars: protecting against a strategic risk.
An aim of the new CFTC rules is to migrate trading of OTC derivatives onto electronic trading platforms.
A particular example of this was the successful application and subsequent Risk management framework temporary registration granted to ICAP by the CFTC for its SEF in the compressed timeframe provided by the CFTC.
The business, as the first line of defence, identified the risk from regulatory Operating Process Governance change and engaged the government affairs, legal and compliance model methods departments to liaise with regulatory and industry bodies on ICAPs behalf.
Working groups and a steering committee were established to drive the Governance in addition to appropriate governance at all levels of the application and business change forward.
Group as detailed in the corporate governance statement, this pillar Risk management and compliance, as the second line of defence, were incorporates risk policies and continued fostering of the corporate risk considered critical partners in these forums and through constant management culture.
dialogue, advice and challenge, ensured the successful development of Operating model includes the underpinning guidelines and procedures, the appropriate internal and required external controls for the new control environment, and Risk Management department structure.
Process methods identification, assessment and mitigation of risk at Internal audit, as the third line of defence, incorporated a review of the Group and business level.
SEF into their audit cycle.
Our governance structure is designed such that the business is the first line of defence, risk management department the second line of defence and Evolving risk profile internal audit the third line of defence.
The Groups approach for managing risk is underpinned by understanding As the first line of defence the business is responsible for the management the risk exposure for the Group and its businesses that arise from internal of its own risks.
The business identifies, manages, mitigates and reports on events, the business models we adopt and potential or realised external risks through a structured process aligned to the business models in which forces of change.
Risk appetite is set by the board and regular updates are they operate.
presented on how the risk profile of the Group is changing over time.
The firms responses to these changes and remedial actions taken to ensure risk levels are consistent with the appetite are also discussed.
The Groups key risks remain largely unchanged from 2013 with our most significant risks remaining strategic, operational and liquidity.
44 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Risk management continued Throughout 2013 and into 2014 strategic risk remains important in the continued growth and evolution of the business based on the current dynamic regulatory environment, as is the necessity of ensuring all aspects of regulatory risk are specifically identified and addressed effectively.
The changing environment means that there will be external industry risks that are applicable to ICAP, which will steer the business and risk management strategy.
Consequently, this will promote the need for strengthening existing and inputting additional controls and mitigations.
These will be embedded into the strategy.
2014 industry risks and ICAPs response Industry risk Topic impact ICAP response Global financial stability Pace and amount of regulatory change varying approaches ICAP maintains robust risk management in different jurisdictions frameworks across global businesses compliant with regional and local regulatory requirements.
Systemic risk and contagion Regulatory Implementation of regulatory changes ICAP maintains frequent dialogue with major opportunities arising from regulatory demands stakeholders including regulators, clients and service providers to satisfy and meet both their Capital, liquidity and business model challenges for banks discrete and macro needs.
and our other major customers Launch of the ICAP SEF to capitalise on growth Risk appetite greater balance sheet implications as well as opportunities and meet regulatory changes.
meeting key stakeholder expectations Uncertainty Confidence in risk management measures and practices Training throughout the business to reinforce and global culture and governance of firms cultural values and best business practices.
fragmentation Preparing for the next geopolitical shock The Group has strengthened operational risk frameworks across the business.
ICAP continually explores opportunities evolving from internal strategies and external drivers.
Iterative approach to risk management The Group views risk management as dynamic as the global market in which it operates.
The Group evolves its risk management process and continually seeks to improve it.
The following areas have been of particular focus for the Group and will continue to be so: continuation of enhancing stress testing capabilities across all risk disciplines, particularly focusing on the impact of potential regulatory changes on specific entities within the Group directly or indirectly: ongoing discrete and macro-wide analysis to ensure awareness of developments within the industry: operational risk framework enhancements to strengthen global consistency: improvements to the Groups internal capital adequacy assessment and planning: and continued enhancement to risk monitoring processes including dynamic refinement of key risk indicators.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 45 Risk overview The table below is a high level overview of how the Groups risk profile has changed over the past year due to external events and internal mitigation.
This is intended as an indicative summary of the Groups risk profile only.
Risk Rating Appetite Description of change Principal risks Strategic High Proactive Greater clarity over future market landscape.
Uncertainty remains as to the full impact and some regulatory change is yet to be finalised.
Operational High Cautious Greater reliance on technology, leading to investment in infrastructure.
More stringent and enforcement-led regulation.
Improved processes and employee training to reduce inherent risk.
Liquidity High Cautious Continued analysis to ensure appropriate liquidity management.
Other significant risks Credit Medium Minimal Enhanced monitoring system infrastructure and more detailed counterparty analysis to ensure mitigation from deterioration in counterparty quality, given macroeconomic conditions.
Legal and compliance Medium Averse New regulations have been introduced and ICAP continues to align business processes and practices to ensure compliance with regulatory standards in markets where ICAP has regulated entities.
Reputational Medium Averse Heightened industry focus of attention following recent headline publicity and associated impacts on customers, share price and operations.
Financial Low Minimal No major changes in operations or appetite.
Market Low Minimal Remains stable as a second order impact risk.
Principal risks The following three risks have been identified by the board as the principal Risk impact time horizon risks faced by the Group.
Each has a different impact on the Group based on the time horizon see opposite.
High These risks along with our other significant risks are explained in more detail on the next few pages: however, to summarise: Strategic Liquidity Strategic manifests over a medium time frame which allows for management action to reduce the impact.
Aligning the risk strategy and risk appetite to the business strategy ensures the risks are known and Impact addressed where applicable.
Operational inherent in the business model: however, controls and Operational monitoring are in place to lessen the impact of any event.
Liquidity liquidity outflows relating to business activity are accepted and Low there are funding lines in place to deal with these appropriately.
Unexpected Days Time Years large liquidity requirements are considered unlikely: these, however, could manifest themselves over an extremely short time frame 1-2 days and the businesses and Group have a contingency funding plan to meet these requirements.
46 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Risk management continued Principal risks Strategic risk Overview Potential manifestations and appetite Mitigation Definition Potential manifestations ICAP maintains constant dialogue with Inherent risk that Group services become Inability to respond to a continually changing customers, regulatory bodies and other key obsolete to existing or future customers, and challenging environment through the stakeholders in order to leverage environmental resulting in diminishing corporate financial business strategy.
and changing customer needs and remains performance.
aware of changes arising in the industry.
Failure to adhere to regulatory changes and Drivers align business strategy to remain compliant in ICAPs risk management strategy is aligned to The Group sets out its business strategy in jurisdictions.
This ensures that response to both external and internal factors, internal drivers are assessed and mitigations put The move towards electronic trading, central in order to achieve its goal of being the leading in place.
clearing of derivatives, increased capital provider of trade execution services and demands and the continued uncertainty of the ICAP is therefore able to use its strengthened market infrastructure to the global wholesale final shape of the reforms.
position at the heart of the wholesale financial financial sector.
Consequently this creates markets to provide and enhance services Appetite a first order risk, including external regulators, that are: customers, competitors etc.
and internal ICAP has a proactive appetite for this risk relevant: exploring the introduction of new innovative governance drivers.
scalable: products and service lines from organic growth flexible: and and acquisitions and a desire to lead its have realistic opportunities for competition.
Operational risk Overview Potential manifestations and appetite Mitigation Definition Potential manifestations Operational risk is mitigated by implementing Risk of financial losses, fortuitous gains, fines or Trade execution or processing errors.
the Operational Risk Framework in each line of non-financial impact reputational, opportunity, business.
These frameworks contain: Extended failure of IT networks, systems costs resulting from human errors, inadequate risks and controls that are or communication.
or failed internal processes or systems, or identified, assessed and Internal or external events affecting buildings external events.
transparently monitored: and or people.
owners for the risks with assigned Drivers roles and responsibilities.
First order risk driven by internal e. g. human error, system failure and external e. g. The Group invests in infrastructure and people.
Inadequately managed projects including new terrorism, fraud events.
Formal business continuity plans and appropriate remote data back-up and disaster recovery Appetite facilities are available for each key location.
ICAP has a cautious appetite for operational risk as ICAP accepts that operational risk is inherent in its business and even after mitigating controls there will be residual risk which could lead to losses.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 47 Liquidity risk Overview Potential manifestations and appetite Mitigation Definition Potential manifestations Daily stress testing is performed to ensure that Risk that any part of the Group does not have Requirement to place margin or collateral at a available liquidity and funding lines available to sufficient financial resources available to enable it clearing house or third-party clearing provider both the regions and the Group are adequate.
to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
due to counterparty not fulfilling its obligations There is a centralised provision of liquidity and a This may result in the inability to fund operational or timing issues.
Contingency Funding Plan for Group trading liquidity outflows or any margin calls.
Appetite entities: each entity additionally has access to Drivers ICAP has a cautious appetite for liquidity risk but appropriate liquidity which includes third party Main manifestation would be through the no appetite for not meeting financial obligations arrangements to attain margin netting benefits.
second order impact from potential operational as they fall due.
The appropriate liquidity needs and funding lines and credit events.
Also some first order risk are assessed periodically to ensure that the driven by internal operating model factors in Group has sufficient liquidity lines.
Historical and exchange traded and matched principal broking.
progressive analysis is performed to quantify the needs.
Other significant risks Credit risk Overview Potential manifestations and appetite Mitigation Definition Potential manifestations Processes and controls are in place to limit and Risk of a counterparty failing in its obligations.
A counterparty failure may result in monitor potential and actual credit exposure Financial losses include loss of commissions.
ICAP having: including: Liquidity outflows may arise through a an open market position: client on-boarding and limit counterpartys failure to meet obligations by unpaid receivables: and setting process based on internal way of market risk or margin requirements.
loss of access to or loss of funds ratings: that the Group has deposited with regional accounts receivable Drivers financial institutions.
teams monitoring non-receipt of First order risk driven by external counterparty commissions and fee income: and default events which may create a second Appetite limit setting on Treasury order liquidity event.
ICAP has minimal appetite for financial loss as a counterparties.
48 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Risk management continued Other significant risks Legal and compliance risk Overview Potential manifestations and appetite Mitigation Definition Potential manifestations ICAP has an internal legal department which acts Risk of a loss of legal, human or financial integrity, Inappropriate or incorrect documentation or as an independent advisory and investigation reputation or capital as the result of government responsibility in the conduct of business could function and is directed to both enable and action, legislation, contract or other laws or lead to a loss arising from defending a claim.
defend the Groups strategic aims.
Operational or human failures, employee The Group maintains an independent Drivers breaches of policy or regulations may lead to compliance function which mitigates compliance First order risk driven by internal regulatory investigation and fines, resulting in risk by way of the compliance risk management shortfalls failures failure to comply with laws, financial loss.
regulations, rules, related self-regulatory Appetite Advice is regularly taken from appropriately organisation standards and codes of conduct, ICAP has an averse appetite for financial loss as a qualified external advisers and professionals.
resulting in legal or regulatory sanctions, financial result of this risk.
We accept that due to the loss and or reputational damage.
Training is provided to staff on an on-going nature of the complex commercial and basis.
regulatory environment in which ICAP operates its companies may become involved in Legal and compliance risks are assessed and mitigated in the processes and procedures of contentious matters and litigation and may be required to respond to regulatory inquiries.
Reputational risk Overview Potential manifestations and appetite Mitigation Definition Potential manifestations As a second order impact, appropriate controls Risk of financial loss arising from negative Third-party relationships would be impacted and management of the other risks assists in perception on the part of third-party resulting in events such as: mitigation of this risk.
relationships including customers, a significant decline in share price: counterparties, shareholders, investors or fewer willing lenders: regulators.
potential credit downgrade: greater difficulty in hiring and Drivers retaining high quality staff: and Second order event as a result of the perception a decline in customer activity.
that the Group either had material, persistent operational defects or was unable to Appetite appropriately identify and mitigate its other risks.
ICAP has an averse appetite for financial loss as a result of this risk as the relationships of openness and trust with its customers and regulators is key to its business model.
