strateGic report Governance Financial statements, , risks performance resources and strategy and priorities business model marketplace year in review relationships PRinCiPAL RiSKS And unCeRtAintieS external risks risk impact mitigation and movement in the year macroeconomic risk Failure to execute the Adverse macroeconomic conditions The Board regularly receives detailed market reports, Groups strategic couldreduce the opportunity to deploy capital reviewing the latest developments in the Groups priorities due to unforeseen and impair the ability of the Group to manage key markets.
The Investment Committees receive macroeconomic effectively its portfolios, reducing the value of ongoing detailed and specific market reviews for changes future management fees, investment income, each investment.
During the year economic indicators intheGroups key markets have shown improvement.
liquidity risk Failure to refinance debt An ongoing failure to refinance its liabilities The Group has a policy which seeks to ensure that as it falls due could result in the Group failing to meet debt funding is obtained from diversified sources and its payment obligations as they fall due.
that the repayment profile is managed to minimise As a result the Group would not be a material repayment events.
During the year the Group has continued to extend and diversify its sources of funding.
operational risk Reputational damage The Groups ability to raise new funds The Group has a governance structure in place, due to a regulatory failing andoperate its fund management supported by a risk framework that allows for the business would be impaired as a result identification, control, and mitigation of material ofaregulatory failing.
risks resulting from the geographical and product diversity of the Group.
The adequacy of the systems and controls the Group has in place to comply with the regulations, safeguard the Group from the threat of cybercrime and to mitigate the risks that these represent is periodically assessed.
This includes a tailored compliance monitoring programme that specifically addresses regulatory and reputational risks.
The increased breadth of the marketing activities, the expansion of the Groups product portfolio, and increasing product complexity has led to increased regulatory risk.
32 33, , ICG ANNUAL REPORT ANd ACCOUNTS 2014 PRinCiPAL RiSKS And unCeRtAintieS continued internal risks risk impact mitigation and movement in the year business risk Failure to raise third A failure to raise new funds would reduce The Group has built dedicated fundraising and party funds the Groups long term income from fund scaleable infrastructure teams to grow and diversify management fees, performance fees its institutional client base by geography and type.
The Group has expanded its product portfolio to address a range of investor requirements and continues to build a strong product pipeline.
A record level of fundraising was achieved during the year across a range of products.
business risk, Failure to deploy Failure to deploy capital reduces the value of The rate of investment is kept under continued capital committed future management fees, investment income, review by the Investment Committees and senior performance fees and carried interest.
management to ensure acceptable levels are maintained in current market conditions.
In an increasingly competitive landscape the Group has continued to deploy funds in line with the expected run rate during the year.
business risk, Failure to maintain adequate performance in ICG has a disciplined investment policy and all Failure to maintain acceptable the open ended funds may result in investors investments are selected and regularly monitored relative investment reducing or cancelling their commitments, by the Groups Investment Committees.
performance across the reducing AUM and fundmanagement fees.
Disciplined credit procedures are applied both before majority of funds and during the period of investment.
ICG limits the extent of credit risk by diversifying its portfolio assets by sector, size and geography.
Continued focus by senior management and executives ensures maximum recovery is achieved.
During the year the Group has maintained its investment performance.
business risk, Failure to grow in a controlled way may result The Group has a structured framework that Failure to execute the business in losses, failings or reputational damage as a considers and assesses the commercial benefits, strategy due to result of risks in relation to products or regulations risks and resource needs of all new initiatives.
uncontrolled growth we do not fully understand or the acquisition Significant initiatives are subject to Board approval or development of products for which we and all new initiatives are overseen by the have inadequate resources to fully implement Executive Committee.
strateGic report Governance Financial statements, risks performance resources and strategy and priorities business model marketplace year in review relationships risk impact mitigation and movement in the year liquidity risk Failure of ICG to meet its In the event that the Group breached its The Group continually monitors forecast covenant debt covenants covenants, the lenders could potentially levels.
The Board reviews the forecast and actual call on their commitments.
During the year the Group has not identified any forecasted covenant breach.
operational risk, Breach of any Key Man clause or unexpected The Group rewards its investment professionals and Unplanned loss of one loss of one or more key employees could result in other key employees in line with market practice.
or more key employees the Group having to stop making investments for Senior investment professionals receive long term the relevant fund or may impair the ability of the incentives and carried interest as part of their Group to raise new funds.
The Group periodically engages external consultants to benchmark the rewards offered by the Group to ensure they remain attractive and competitive.
The Group has an appraisal and development process for all its employees to ensure that individuals remain sufficiently motivated and appropriately competent to ensure the ongoing operation and development of the business.
During the year the Groups performance has not been impacted by the loss of any employee.
