ICG ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 AUDITORS RepORT continued oUr assessMent of rIsKs of MaterIaL MIsstateMent The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: rIsK vaLUatIon of UnqUoteD shares anD Warrants hoW the sCope of oUr aUDIt responDeD to the rIsK Valuing unquoted equities and warrants requires management to make a We assessed the Groups valuation policy, managements process number of judgements, including valuation methodology and the discount andrelated controls for determining the valuations and that appropriate or premium applied.
Valuations can be sensitive to these judgments and oversight from senior investment executives has been exercised within inputs, so small changes in key assumptions can have a significant impact thevaluations process: on carrying value and therefore reported results.
We utilised fair value specialists to independently value and provide challenge to a sample of unquoted shares: We challenged management assumptions used in determining the valuation of unquoted equities and warrants, including specifically changes to discount rates, comparable companies and valuation methodologies: and We substantively tested key inputs into the valuations including discount factors and the extraction of management information.
We also agreed the multiples used to independent sources.
IMpaIrMent of Loans anD InvestMents hoW the sCope of oUr aUDIt responDeD to the rIsK The identification of impairment events and the determination of the We challenged management assumptions relating to the timing and impairment charge require the application of judgment by management, recognition of the impairment event and the determination of the inparticular the timing and quantum of future cash flows.
We reviewed the nature and timing of the impairment event to assess whether it occurred during the period.
We assessed the rationale for the quantum of the impairment charge and recalculated the impairment charge.
We assessed completeness of impairments by reviewing independent information, such as current news stories, for potential impairment triggers for a sample of loans and investments.
Where changes to repayment dates negatively impacted the carrying value of assets, we challenged management as to whether this indicated an impairment had occurred.
revenUe reCoGnItIon hoW the sCope of oUr aUDIt responDeD to the rIsK Determining the management fee income can be difficult due to the We carried out substantive testing on management fees by recalculating complexity of some of the calculations and because of the extent of manual the fees recorded with reference to the contractual arrangements and the input into the process.
The accuracy and occurrence of interest income assets under management per third party custodian reports.
We assessed arising from instruments with estimated cash flows and repayment dates the completeness of management fee income by investigating whether isa risk, as it is reliant on management judgment relating to the timing revenue had been recognised for all funds managed by the group.
andquantum of future of cash flows.
There is also a risk that all revenue For interest income, we tested the integrity of the calculations and isnot complete.
re-performed calculations for a sample of investments.
We also performed analytical procedures and substantive testing around accuracy, completeness and occurrence of interest income.
strateGic report Governance Financial statements rIsK aCCoUntInG treatMent for neW, restrUCtUreD or refInanCeD hoW the sCope of oUr aUDIt responDeD to the rIsK CoMpLex InvestMent InstrUMents Investment agreements arising from new investments or from restructuring We reviewed significant new, restructured or refinanced investment or refinancing may contain complex terms that are difficult to interpret and instrument contracts for complex features, including embedded derivatives, can impact the accounting treatment and the presentation of results.
and checked the appropriate application of accounting policies and accounting standards.
We used specialists to provide input into the accounting treatment and interpretation of complex terms.
We reviewed a listing of terms that may constitute embedded derivatives, and performed procedures to assess whether they were required to bedetached from the underlying instrument and recognised and valuedseparately.
We assessed managements process for identifying potential embeddedderivatives, and reviewed their assumptions as to valuationjudgments made.
the reCoGnItIon anD MeasUreMent of CorporatIon tax hoW the sCope of oUr aUDIt responDeD to the rIsK aCCrUaLs The group owns and manages investments in a number of locations, We engaged with tax specialists, who considered the appropriateness of including low tax jurisdictions.
The recognition of gains and losses in managements corporation tax accrual estimates in light of the groups relevant jurisdictions may be subject to challenge by tax authorities.
overall business and commercial arrangements.
We also reviewed Thedetermination of the likely tax charge is therefore subject to correspondence with tax authorities and legal advice received.
The Audit Committees consideration of We determined materiality for the group to these risks is set out in the Audit Committee be 12 million, which is approximately 1% report on pages 54 to 59. of equity, 10% of normalised pre-tax profit and less than 8% of pre-tax profit.
We used Our audit procedures relating to these normalised pre-tax profit to determine matters were designed in the context of our materiality to exclude the volatility arising audit of the financial statements as a whole, fromimpairments and capital gains, which and not to express an opinion on individual cause significant year on year fluctuations.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with We agreed with the Audit Committee respect to any of the risks described above, that we would report to the Committee all and we do not express an opinion on these audit differences in excess of 240,000, individual matters.
as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on oUr appLICatIon of MaterIaLItY qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that We define materiality as the magnitude of we identified when assessing the overall misstatement in the financial statements presentation of the financial statements.
that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating theresults of our work.
