ICG ANNUAL REPORT ANd ACCOUNTS 2014 mAnAging RiSK to deLiveR ouR StRAtegy effective risk management is critical to enable us to deliver ourstrategic priorities.
our approach identiFying and monitoring The Group considers its material risks are material risks as follows: Risk management is the responsibility of Material risks are identified through a the Board and is integral to the ability of the business risk detailed analysis of individual processes Group to deliver on its strategic priorities.
including credit risk and procedures bottom up approach The Board establishes the culture of effective and a consideration of the strategy and The risk of loss resulting from the failure risk management throughout the business operating environment of the Group top to meet the businesss strategic priorities.
by identifying and monitoring the material down approach.
risks, setting risk appetite, and determining macroeconomic risk the risk tolerances of the Group.
The bottom up review encompasses the The financial risk of loss arising as a result identification, management and monitoring The Board is responsible for establishing of economic uncertainty, macroeconomic of risks in each area of the business and and maintaining appropriate systems and or political factors.
ensures risk management controls are controls to manage risk within the Group embedded in the business operations.
andto ensure compliance with regulation.
liquidity risk The Risk Committee monitors these The Groups risk management systems are The risk of loss resulting from an inability processes, reviewing the Risk Register regularly monitored by the Risk Committee to meet financial commitments as they and reporting material risks to the Board.
under delegation from the Board.
In identifying risks, consideration is also Committee is responsible for overseeing given to risks identified by other asset the effectiveness of the internal control operational risk managers in the sector and regulatory environment of the Group.
The materiality and severity of The risk of loss resulting from inadequate activities of the Risk Committee in this each risk is assessed through a combination or failed internal processes, people and financial year can be found in the Risk of each risks likelihood of an adverse systems, or from external events.
Committee report on page 60. outcome and its impact.
In assessing impact, consideration is given to financial, reputational and regulatory factors, the impact on management resources and risk mitigation plans established.
The top down review, led by the Risk Committee, evaluates the material risks of the Group with reference to its strategy and the operating environment.
strategic report governance Financial statements risks performance resources and strategy and priorities business model marketplace year in review relationships bOarD Overall responsibility for risk management, systems and controls Sets strategic Defines risk Monitors objectives appetite risk via KRIs Executive Investment Committees, Internal audit and business unit Treasury Committee function to be established management and Compliance in FY15 business group support 28 29 bottom up top doWn Review process Review process
