Strategic Report 49 PERFORMANCE PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Effective management of risks, challenging external environment, the Board-approved levels of risk uncertainties and opportunities, as particularly from changing regulation appetite.
The effectiveness of mentioned in our investment case on and competition.
Internally, we have operating these processes is page 6, is critical to our business in embedded our operational monitored by the Audit and Risk order to deliver long-term governance framework, as illustrated Committee, details of which can be shareholder value and protect our on page 57, and improved our risk found on pages 64 to 67.
The risks people, assets and reputation.
In management process to ensure the facing the business by risk category 2014, we continued to face a business continues to operate within are: Risk category Definition Risks Description The risk that we cannot Regulatory Compliance with laws MARKET identify, respond to, comply and regulations CONDITIONS with or take advantage of Competition and Adapting to competitive external market conditions.
product proposition environment Funding Funding availability to meet business needs Interest rate Market volatility Currency impacting performance and asset values Counterparty Loss of banking partner Taxation Changes to, or interpretation of, tax legislation World economic Adapting to economic environment conditions The risk that key Reputation Reputational damage STAKEHOLDER stakeholders take a Customer Service Maintenance of negative view of the customer service business either as a direct standards result of our actions or inability to effectively manage their perception of the Group.
The risk of unacceptable Credit Customers fail to repay OPERATIONAL losses as a result of Safety Harm to our agents inadequacies or failures in people our internal core processes, People Quantity calibre of systems or people people behaviours.
Service disruption and Recoverability and information security security of systems and processes Financial and Failure of financial performance reporting reporting systems Technology Maintenance of effective technology Business Operations Effective operation of business model Fraud Theft or fraud loss The risk that our earnings New market and Growth of our footprint BUSINESS are impacted adversely by acquisition and operations DEVELOPMENT a sub-optimal business Change Management Delivery of strategic strategy or the sub-optimal initiatives implementation of that Brand Strength of our customer strategy, both due to brand internal or external factors.
Risks currently considered as the key risks facing the Group by the Risk Advisory Group.
50 International Personal Finance plc PERFORMANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Our risk management process is which require ongoing focus noted summarised in the Audit and Risk with asterisks in the table on page Committee Report on page 64.
Nine of these are considered to the year end, the Risk Advisory Group be the principal risks and considered that there are 14 key risks uncertainties facing the Group.
Risk Relevance Mitigation Commentary We must ensure we operate We have highly skilled and REGULATORY in compliance with all experienced legal and Lead Responsibility: We suffer losses or fail to applicable legal and public affairs teams at Chief Financial Officer optimise profitable growth regulatory requirements.
Group level and in each of A number of legislative and due to a failure to operate our markets.
regulatory changes We must keep up to speed in compliance with, or continue to be proposed with regulatory Expert third party advisors effectively anticipate and debated, particularly in developments to ensure we are used where necessary.
changes in, all applicable Europe.
can remain competitive laws and regulations, or an Strong relationships are and provide value for our The Group is currently external party interpreting maintained with regulators customers.
subject to some challenges these in a different way.
over its interpretation of Changes in regulation or Objective Co-ordinated legal and regulation.
See page 20 for differences in interpretation We aim to ensure that public affairs teams, at a further details.
can lead to challenge of effective arrangements are Group level and in each our products practices.
We continue to maintain in place to enable us to market, monitor political, constructive relationships comply with legal and legislative and regulatory with regulators and opinion regulatory obligations and developments.
take assessed and fully informed commercial risks.
In an environment of Regular monitoring of COMPETITION increasing competition and competitors and their Lead Responsibility: AND PRODUCT broadening customer offerings in our markets.
Chief Executive Officer choice including digital PROPOSITION Competition continues to Competitor advertising and offerings, ensuring our increase as noted on page share of voice monitored.
We suffer losses or fail to product meets customers 20. optimise profitable growth needs is critical to deliver Regular surveys of customer Our Strategy for Growth through not responding to growth.
views on our product includes ongoing initiatives the competitive offerings.
designed to improve environment or failing to Product development product offerings, customer ensure our proposition committees established engagement and our meets customer needs.
across the Group to ability to respond quickly to Objective manage product change meet their needs.
We aim to ensure we and introduce new Process to diversify portfolio understand competitive products.
underway through threats and deliver introduction of hapiloans customer focussed and acquisition of MCB products to drive growth.
Our reputation can have Group Reputation and REPUTATION an impact on both Regulation Committee.
Lead Responsibility: We suffer financial or customer sentiment and Chief Executive Officer Clearly defined corporate reputational damage due the engagement of key Our businesses continue to values and ethical to our methods of stakeholders.
achieve awards for ethical standards which are operation, ill-informed and effective operations.
communicated throughout comment or malpractice.
In light of the regulatory Objective challenges being faced External monitoring of We aim to promote a see page 20, we continue reputation.
positive reputation that will to communicate our enable the Group to position to investors and achieve its strategic aims.
Strategic Report 51 Key Risk environment improving Risk environment remains stable Risk environment worsening Risk Relevance Mitigation Commentary A significant element of our Group and market loss SAFETY business model involves our prevention committees and Lead Responsibility: The risk of personal agents and employees annual safety survey.
Chief Commercial Officer accident or assault of our interacting with our We continued to make Bi-annual risk mapping for agents or employees.
customers in their homes or progress in our safety each agency including travelling to numerous management systems Objective mitigation planning and locations daily.
We aim to maintain field safety training.
adequate arrangements Their safety is paramount to Safety continues to be a Annual self-certification of that reduce the risks to be us and we strive to ensure significant area of focus for safety compliance by as low as is reasonably that our agents and the Group.
employees can carry out their work without risk of Quarterly branch safety harm.
Role-specific training and competence matrix.
Safety management systems based on internationally recognised standards.
Our Strategy for Growth People and Organisational PEOPLE includes plans to expand Planning process operating Lead Responsibility: Our strategy is impacted our footprint both in existing throughout the Group.
Chief Executive Officer due to not having sufficient and new markets.
Our succession and Group-wide personal depth and quality of development processes In order to achieve this development review people or being unable to ensure plans to develop key growth we must continue to process and continuous retain key people and treat individuals are in place.
attract, retain and reward development through tools them in accordance with the right people.
such as 360 feedback and Employee and agent our values and ethical targeted leadership retention was stable in 2014. standards.
Our people strategy Objective Periodic employee and focusses on creating a We will have sufficient depth agent engagement surveys culture of high of personnel to ensure we and improvement plans.
engagement, identifying can meet our growth and nurturing talent and objectives.
Group standard employee empowering people as competency framework noted on pages 26 and 27. aligned to Strategy for Growth.
52 International Personal Finance plc PERFORMANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Risk Relevance Mitigation Commentary Globally we have 2.6 million Agreed standard operating SERVICE DISRUPTION customers and we record, procedures for handling, Lead Responsibility: AND INFORMATION update and maintain data transmitting and storing Chief Commercial Officer for each of them on a information, supported by SECURITY We have developed weekly basis.
formal training management systems We suffer losses or fail to arrangements.
The availability of this data, optimise profitable growth and the continued Core head-office based due to a failure of our We continue to enhance operation of our systems systems operate in a systems, suppliers or our systems and processes and processes, are essential virtualised environment and processes, or due to the loss to ensure customer and to the effective operation of are supported by service or theft of sensitive business data is as secure our business and the level agreements.
as practicable and that security of our customer any disruption to the Agreed and tested business Objective information.
continuity plan for all We aim to maintain branches and head office adequate arrangements Information security functions.
and controls that reduce capability was further the threat of service enhanced including Business Impact disruption and the risk of implementation of various Assessments performed at data loss to as low as is technical solutions and least every two years.
bolstering of the skills base Group and market level across the Group.
governance committees that oversee our service disruption and information security arrangements.
In a backdrop of increasing Binding rulings or TAXATION fiscal challenges for most clearances obtained from Lead Responsibility: We suffer additional economies, many authorities where Chief Financial Officer taxation or financial authorities are turning to appropriate.
We continue to ensure our penalties associated with corporate taxpayers to interpretation of taxation External advisors used for all failure to comply with tax increase revenues, either legislation is defendable material tax transactions.
legislation or adopting an via taxation reforms or through maintaining a interpretation of the law through changes to Qualified and experienced strong governance which cannot be sustained.
interpretations of existing tax teams at Group level framework, ensuring each legislation.
mature market and Group Objective employs tax professionals, We aim to generate and taking external advice shareholder value through where relevant.
effective management of tax whilst acting as a good Tax audits are currently corporate citizen.
being undertaken in Poland and Mexico.
See page 113 for further information.
Strategic Report 53 Key Risk environment improving Risk environment remains stable Risk environment worsening Risk Relevance Mitigation Commentary Our global change Executive Director and CHANGE programme, T4G, is key to Country Manager level Lead Responsibility: MANAGEMENT delivering our Strategy for prioritisation of key Chief Commercial Officer Growth.
Our change programme is We suffer losses or fail to now in flight and we have optimise profitable growth Effective management of Standard project successfully delivered key due to a failure to manage the initiatives within this management methodology initial technologies.
change in an effective programme is essential.
We are actively working with Governance structure in our IT partner to help us Objective place to oversee ongoing deliver a more technologyWe aim to effectively change at Group and enabled approach to manage the design, market levels.
delivery and benefits realisation of major global change initiatives and deliver according to requirements, budgets and timescales.
Changes in economic Treasury and Credit WORLD ECONOMIC conditions have a direct Committees review Lead Responsibility: ENVIRONMENT impact on our customers economic indicators.
Chief Financial Officer ability to make repayments.
There were good We suffer financial loss as a Daily monitoring of macroeconomic conditions result of a failure to identify economic, political and in our markets in 2014 but and adapt to changing national news briefings.
forecasts moderated during economic conditions Strong, long-term customer the year.
relationships inform us of forecasts for 2015 are Objective individual customer positive.
We aim to have business circumstances.
Further detail on expected processes which allow us to trends can be found on respond to changes in page 21. economic conditions and optimise business performance.
Our 2014 Strategic Report, from page 1 to page 53, has been reviewed and approved by the Board on 25 February 2015.
Gerard Ryan Chief Executive Officer
