Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties The Group risk register is reported formally to the Audit Committee The Group has a formal risk management framework embedded within twice a year and focused risk reporting on selected themes occurs the business to support the identification and effective management on a quarterly basis.
Additional information on the Groups internal of risk across the Group.
control and risk management processes is set out in the Corporate The divisions within the Group are each responsible for managing and Governance Report and the Audit Committee Report see page 54. reporting risk in accordance with the Groups risk management policy This section describes the current principal risks and uncertainties and standards that have been approved by the Audit Committee.
In addition to summarising the material risks and The risks are then consolidated into a Group risk register which uncertainties, the table below gives examples of how we mitigate provides an overview of the Group risk profile.
Description of risk Mitigation Market and competition: The Group operates in a highly competitive environment and faces The Group continues to make significant investments in innovation.
competition from a broad range of organisations.
Technological The Groups product development strategic aim is to be at the developments also have the ability to create new forms of quickly forefront of progressive technology.
Please see the Innovation section for further details of these A failure to develop the Groups product proposition in line with products.
changing market dynamics and expectations could erode the Groups competitive position.
The Group regularly reviews its pricing and packaging structures to ensure that its product proposition is appropriately placed Great content is central to Skys product proposition and increased within the market.
competition could impact the Groups ability to acquire content that its customers want on commercially attractive terms.
The Group works closely with its marketing partners to ensure that the value of its offering is understood and communicated effectively Economic conditions have been challenging in recent years and the to its customers.
A significant economic decline could impact the Groups ability to continue to attract and retain customers.
The Group makes significant investment in the origination of UK content as well as in acquisition from across the world.
The Group also works to develop and maintain the brand value associated with its individual channels.
Regulatory breach and change: The Group is subject to regulation primarily under UK, Irish and European The Group manages these risks through active engagement in the Union legislation.
regulatory processes that affect the Groups business.
The regimes which apply to the Groups business include, but are not The Group actively seeks to identify and meet our regulatory limited to: obligations and to respond to emerging requirements.
This includes, for example: Broadcasting the Group is subject to Ofcoms licensing regime under the Broadcasting Acts 1990 and 1996 and the Communications Act Broadcasting compliance controls, processes and contacts 2003.
These obligations include the requirement to comply with the are in place in Entertainment, Movies, Sports and News services.
relevant codes and directions issued by Ofcom, including for example, Interaction with Ofcom is co-ordinated between the Compliance, the Broadcasting Code, the Code on the Scheduling of Television Regulatory and Legal departments: Advertising and the Cross Promotions Code: Gambling controls and processes are in place to monitor our Gambling Alderney Gambling Control Commission AGCC regulation compliance with, and our adherence to, our obligations under the and Gambling Act 2005 UK : AGCC regulations and the Gambling Act 2005.
We are subject to regular independent audit by the AGCC against the Alderney Platform services as a provider of EPG and CA services, the Group regulations and will be applying to the UK Gambling Commission is subject to regulation under the Communications Act 2003 which, for a UK Remote Gambling Licence in accordance with recent amongst other things, requires it to provide EPG and CA services to amendments to the Gambling Act 2005: other broadcasters on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms: and Platform services processes are in place to monitor third-party broadcaster access to the digital satellite platform and to ensure Telecommunications the Group is subject to the General Conditions that this is provided on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory of Entitlement adopted under the Communications Act 2003 which terms: impose detailed requirements on providers of communications networks and services.
Telecommunications compliance controls, processes and contacts are in place overseen by the Customer Compliance Committee, to monitor compliance and performance against the General Conditions of Entitlement.
40 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Description of risk Mitigation Regulatory breach and change continued: The Group is also subject to generally applicable legislation including, The Group maintains appropriate oversight and reporting, supported but not limited to, competition antitrust, consumer protection, data by training, to provide assurance that it is compliant with regulatory protection and taxation.
The Group is currently, and may be in the future, subject to proceedings, and or investigation and enquiries from regulatory authorities.
The Groups ability to operate or compete effectively could be adversely affected by the outcome of investigations or by the introduction of new laws, policies or regulations, changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws, policies and regulations, or failure to obtain required regulatory approvals or licences.
Please see page 44 of the Regulatory Matters section for further details.
Customer service: The Groups business is based on a subscription model and its future The Group strives consistently to exceed its customers success relies on building long-term relationships with its customers.
expectations, to put its customers first, to understand what A failure to meet its customers expectations with regards to service they want and to be responsive to what they say.
could negatively impact the Groups brand and competitive position.
The Group makes significant investments in order to deliver continuous development and improvement to its customer service capabilities, including investment in its contact centres across the UK and Ireland and implementing ongoing training and development plans.
The Group tracks its customer service performance, benchmarks its customer service experience and strives to be best in class.
Technology and business interruption: The products and services that the Group provides to its customers The Group makes significant investment in technology infrastructure are reliant on complex technical infrastructure.
to ensure that it continues to support the growth of the business.
A failure in the operation of the Groups key systems or infrastructure, The Group is committed to achieve best-in-class business continuity such as the broadcast platform, customer management systems, OTT standards and makes significant investments in the resilience and platforms or the telecommunications networks on which the Group robustness of its business infrastructure.
relies, could cause a failure of service to our customers and negatively The Group also organises regular scenario based group-wide impact our brand.
business continuity exercises to ensure ongoing readiness of key staff, systems and sites.
Supply chain: The Group relies on a number of third parties and outsourced suppliers The Group continues to invest in its supply chain infrastructure operating across the globe to support its supply chain.
to support its business plan commitments.
A significant failure within the supply chain could adversely affect A robust supplier selection process is in place with appropriate the Groups ability to deliver products and service to its customers.
ongoing management and monitoring of key partners and suppliers.
The Group performs regular audits of key suppliers and of their installations and, wherever possible, has dual supply capability.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 41 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Mitigation Financial: The effective management of its financial exposures is central to The Groups finance teams are embedded within the business to preserving the Groups profitability.
provide support to management and to ensure accurate financial reporting and tracking of our business performance.
Reporting The Group is exposed to financial market risks and may be impacted on financial performance is provided on a monthly basis to senior negatively by fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates management and the Board.
which create volatility in the Groups results to the extent that they are not effectively hedged.
The Group continually invests in the improvement of its systems and processes in order to ensure sound financial management The Group may also be affected adversely by liquidity and and reporting.
The Group manages treasury risk by minimising risk to capital and providing appropriate protection against foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
Cash investment is made in line with the Groups strict treasury policy which is approved by the Audit Committee and sets limits on deposits based on counterparty credit ratings.
No more than 10% of cash deposits are held with a single bank counterparty, with the exception of overnight deposits which are invested in a spread of AAAf rated liquidity funds.
All non-sterling debt is swapped at inception to ensure appropriate currency and interest rate protection is in place, and trading currency risk is hedged up to five years in advance.
The Group manages its tax risk by ensuring that risks are identified and understood at an early stage and that effective compliance and reporting processes are in place.
The Group continues to maintain an open and proactive relationship with the regulating tax authorities, primarily HM Revenue & Customs.
The Group aims to deal with taxation issues, wherever possible, as they arise in order to avoid unnecessary disputes.
Security: The Group must protect its customer and corporate data and the The Group takes measures ranging from physical and logical access safety of its people and infrastructure as well as needing to have controls to encryption, or equivalent technologies, to manage its in place fraud prevention and detection measures.
The Group is responsible to third-party intellectual property owners The Group continues to invest in new technological controls and for the security of the content that it distributes on various platforms in improving broader business process and works closely with law Skys own and third-party platforms.
enforcement agencies and policy makers in order to protect its assets and to comply with its contractual obligations to third parties.
A significant breach of security could impact the Groups ability to operate and deliver against its business objectives.
Projects: The Group invests in, and delivers, significant capital expenditure A common project management methodology is used to enable the projects in order to continually drive the business forward.
Group to manage, monitor and control its major capital expenditure The failure to deliver key projects effectively and efficiently could projects and strategic programmes.
This includes standardised result in significantly increased project costs and impede our ability reporting and monthly reviews by senior management as well as to execute our strategic plans.
cross-functional executive steering groups for major projects.
Third-party partners will, where appropriate, be engaged to provide support and expertise in our large strategic programmes, complex initiatives and for emerging technologies.
42 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Description of risk Mitigation Intellectual property protection: The Group, in common with other service providers, relies on intellectual We maintain an ongoing programme to support appropriate property and other proprietary rights, including in respect of protections of our intellectual property and other rights.
programming content, which may not be adequately protected under This includes, for example, the use of automated online monitoring current laws or which may be subject to unauthorised use.
tools, the implementation of on-screen imprinting of content together with an active programme to protect our trade marks.
People: Making Sky a great place to work is central to the Groups strategy.
The Group champions diversity and develops talent through People at Sky are critical to the Groups ability to meet the needs a number of activities, including the Graduate programme, of its customers and achieve its goals as a business.
Development Studio, an apprenticeship scheme and a leadership Failure to attract or retain suitable employees across the business programme.
could limit the Groups ability to deliver its business plan commitments.
The Group has well established channels and procedures to recruit and retain its employees, and to ensure that an adequate number of suitable employees work within its customer service teams and across all its operations.
Further detail on our people is set out on pages 32 to 35.
The Company announced on 25 July 2014, that it has conditionally entered into share purchase agreements the Acquisition Agreements with 21st Century Fox and its relevant subsidiaries to acquire its 100% stake in Sky Italia Srl and its 57.4% on a fully-diluted basis stake in Sky Deutschland A. G. The Company further announced its intention to make a voluntary cash offer the Offer to the minority shareholders of Sky Deutschland A. G. The Acquisition Agreements and the Offer together the Transactions are conditional on, amongst other things, approval by the Companys independent shareholders and regulatory clearances.
The risks relating to the Transactions and their impact if all relevant conditions are satisfied and they proceed to completion, will be set out in a circular which will be sent to the Companys shareholders, together with a notice of a general meeting of the Company containing the resolutions seeking shareholder approval for the Transactions.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 43
