Strategic r Strategic report eport Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report 07 Our strategy Our strategy Innovation is at the heart of our business and we will bring to market We have a clear strategy that is new products that offers consumers drinks for their changing needs designed to realise our ambition Key performance indicator GB and Ireland revenue and brand contribution growth to become the most dynamic, Exploit global opportunities in kids, family and adult creative and admired soft drinks categories company in the world.
We will build on the global potential of our own brands in these categories, primarily working with local partners through franchise, Leverage our portfolio in GB & Ireland and innovate distribution or licensing agreements to meet changing consumer needs Key performance indicator International revenue growth We have well established operations in these countries and a Embed a winning culture and improve operating portfolio of leading brands.
We will continue to build a company that margin is acknowledged for commercial excellence, the strength and This will allow us to be a lower cost and more efficient business, breadth of its brands which are widely available in all channels, and with resource focused to deliver against the growth opportunities for its cost effectiveness and efficiency Key performance indicator EBITA margin growth We will continue to partner with PepsiCo to manufacture, market and sell its range of brands including Pepsi, 7UP, Lipton Ice Tea and Build trust and respect in our communities Mountain Dew.
The combination of the Britvic and PepsiCo brands W e will deliver a strong performance with integrity, acknowledging gives us the most balanced portfolio in these markets and will the responsibility we have to contribute to our local economies and continue to be a key aspect of our growth plans society more broadly.
Key performance indicator Business In The Community CR Index Risk management Britvic operates a robust risk management process that continues to evolve and improve to meet the needs of the business.
There are five stages to this process: Risk mitigation Risk review Risk monitoring Risk identification Risk analysis planning Risk identification, analysis and mitigation planning is undertaken at all Risks are regularly reviewed and monitored by levels of the business through functional and operational teams.
Each Business Unit or functional management teams.
risk is assigned an owner at management level who has responsibility The Executive Team review the major risks across for ensuring that appropriate actions are taken to manage the risk.
A the group on a quarterly basis to ensure that the dedicated Risk and Insurance Manager manages and supports this management of these risks has appropriate focus.
process and owns the group-wide risk register.
The board reviews these at least twice a year.
See page 28 for Britvics principle risks.
