28 Strategic report Our risks Risk management Refer to page 7 for Britvics risk management process.
Principal risks The principal risks that could potentially have a significant impact on our business in the future are set out below, together with the actions we are taking to mitigate these.
Risk Mitigation Soft drinks market A change in consumer Consumer preferences evolve over time and in the We offer a range from everyday value to premium products preferences or the FMCG environment it is necessary to keep up with across a range of sub-categories and operate in a number of economic environment consumer requirements and tastes and develop our different markets, therefore we are not reliant on the could reduce sales of products to meet these.
It is also necessary to preferences of one set of consumers.
We closely monitor our brands understand the impact that the economic environment consumer trends in order to anticipate changes in preferences has on our consumers as, whilst our products are and match our offerings to these trends across our diversified relatively low value goods, they are non-essential items.
We regularly develop our current This could be particularly the case where we are products and aim to offer innovative new products to create expanding into new international markets where the new sub-categories and generate consumer needs.
The soft soft drinks market dynamics and general economy are drinks category has proven to be reasonably resilient and we different to those we are already operating in.
Failure to offer a range of everyday value products to meet the anticipate changing consumer needs could result in consumer need for reduced spending.
We match our soft consumers switching away from Britvic products.
drinks offerings to the markets in which they are being sold.
Health and obesity There is currently a high level of media and government We already offer a range of soft drinks, many of which are low debate could reduce scrutiny on health and obesity in our core markets: GB, calorie products containing no sugar.
Nutrition information is sales of our products Ireland and France.
Sugary drinks are often cited as shown on our products and, in GB, we have signed up to the one of the issues affecting national obesity levels in governments front of pack labelling scheme.
We continue to media reports.
Despite the fact that many of our actively consider the consumer health debate as part of our products are low calorie, negative reporting and lack strategy development and ensure that our product of understanding could result in consumers switching development provides a range of lower calorie choices.
We away from our products or spending less on soft drinks.
believe that this will remain a risk for a business for the foreseeable future but we are confident that we have the appropriate strategies to manage this, including our commitment to continue to reduce calories in our products and encourage active lifestyles through our marketing activities.
With our broad portfolio and track record in innovation, we equally consider this to be an opportunity for our business, as we are well placed to meet consumers health needs, with both our current portfolio and future innovations.
A change in the retailer Whilst we have a wide range of customers in all We operate across many different channels in our core landscape could impact channels in our core markets, changes in shopper markets and continuously monitor consumer behaviour to on our sales or margins behaviour and retailers could impact our sales or understand changing trends.
We are adopting strategies that margins.
will provide the flexibility to respond to the changing landscape and consumer needs.
A termination or variation Our partnership with PepsiCo is an important part of We place significant emphasis on developing our relationship of the bottling and our business and our strategy going forward: we with PepsiCo, which includes maintaining an appropriate level distribution currently bottle a number of Pepsico products in GB of communication between the two businesses to deal with arrangements with and Ireland, including Pepsi and 7UP which make up a on-going operational issues.
This is further strengthening PepsiCo could significant proportion of our carbonated drinks portfolio through the development of the Fruit Shoot franchise in the significantly reduce our in these markets.
At the end of the bottling agreements US with PepsiCo and the independent Pepsi bottlers.
The business in GB and or earlier in specific circumstances PepsiCo can addition of more PepsiCo products to the Britvic portfolio in Ireland terminate our right to sell their brands.
recent years demonstrates the strength of this relationship.
The bottling agreement for Ireland is due for renewal in December 2015 and initial conversations have already begun around the terms of this renewal.
Strategic r Strategic report eport Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report Our risks continued 29 Risk Mitigation Supply risks Increasing commodity We utilise a wide variety of commodities in our We manage the risk associated with availability of supply demand and pricing products, many of which are subject to crop availability through a robust programme of understanding future could impact our and increasing demand from around the world.
As a requirements, developing new sources and strategic partnerships profitability result of this, there is a risk that we are not able to through our Procurement Transformation programme.
In source the products that we require when we would addition, we ensure that sustainability of prime materials is a like to, or we have to pay more than we planned to for key consideration in our product development process.
In addition, the market commodity prices could aim to manage the impact of market price fluctuations through fluctuate significantly which could impact on the sourcing much of our planned requirements through forward profitability of our products going forward.
A product quality issue Our products are generally of very high quality and are We have robust quality control measures and processes in leads to a recall and not high risk products for causing harm, however there place to maintain the high quality of our products supplied at significant cost is a risk that a faulty or contaminated product is supplied all times.
These were further strengthened in response to the to the market.
This could result in a costly product recall Fruit Shoot recall in 2012. and claims against the company if injury or damage is caused.
Loss of a key operational A severe event could lead to the loss of use of a key We seek to maintain multiple sources of supply for our products site could reduce site of production or distribution.
In addition, we review and manage the product availability and resilience of our sites to significant events and put protection therefore sales in place where practical and beneficial to the business to do so.
Regulatory risks Future regulations that There is a wide range of regulations that we are required We proactively engage with the relevant authorities both affect the sale of soft to comply with, ranging from controlling the content, directly and through a number of trade organisations to drinks may impact our labelling and packaging of our products to the marketing ensure we can fully participate in the future development profitability of them.
Changes in these regulations in the markets in of legislation.
We also continuously develop our product which we operate could result in direct additional taxation portfolio and develop new products in anticipation of likely on our products, increased cost to produce our brands or regulatory requirements.
changes to the nature of the product such that is not as desirable to the consumer, therefore reducing sales.
In addition, regulations may impact our ability to market or sell certain products or engage with specific consumers.
Macro economic environment Macro economic factors We have a number of exposures as a result of changes We closely monitor and manage our exposure to wider could adversely impact in the macro economic environment, particularly economic factors to the extent that it is possible or beneficial the business counterparty credit risk through our banking relationships to do so, in particular, hedging our currency requirements.
Whilst we are not directly we grow our business through international expansion we will exposed to any high risk areas in the Eurozone, we be better protected from regional economic factors affecting would be indirectly affected through the impact on our European markets.
those that we deal with and the on the wider economy.
IT risks A systems issue could As Britvic has grown, both through acquisition and The management of our data centre has been outsourced result in significant organically, so has its reliance on IT systems to function, to a professional provider with both robust disaster recovery disruption to the business a failure of which could halt production or the ability to and business continuity plans capable of meeting both our over a prolonged period deliver goods.
There are disaster recovery plans in place current and future needs.
or permanent loss of should a catastrophic failure occur, however should records and data if the these prove to be inadequate this would result in IT disaster recovery permanent loss of records and data that would have plans are not adequate a significant impact on our ability to operate.
Inadequate security All IT networks are at risk of unwanted access which Much of system is now hosted by a professional provider over the IT network can have adverse consequences in terms of data who is well set up to maintain robust cyber security.
We review could result in data loss leakage or loss, or systems failures.
our security processes at least annually and conduct penetration or corruption tests to identify weaknesses and take corrective action.
The Strategic Report was approved by the board of directors on 25 November 2014 and signed on its behalf by: Simon Litherland Chief Executive Officer 30 making lifes everyday moments more enjoyable sharing secrets Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information 31 02 Governance 33 Corporate governance report 34 Board of directors 43 Audit Committee 46 Nomination Committee 50 Remuneration Committee 51 Directors remuneration report 63 Annual report on remuneration 74 Directors report 76 Statement of directors responsibilities 32 making lifes everyday moments more enjoyable skateboarding
