Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Integrated global risk management structure Group risk and fi finance director Glynn Burger Head of risk South Africa Kevin Kerr Head of risk UK Ian Wohlman Ruth Leas Head of risk Australia Peter Binetter Divisional and geographic roles Global UK and Other South Africa Australia Credit Risk Ian Wohlman Ian Wohlman Justin Cowley Peter Binetter Kevin Kerr Gary Laughton SimonSchwarz Market Risk Mark Trollip Nick Sheppard Adrienne Betts Adam Rapeport Balance Sheet Risk Management Cyril Daleski Wendy Robinson Cyril Daleski Adam Rapeport Operational Risk Chandre Griesel Brian Johnson Chandre Griesel Shirley Snoyman Legal Risk David Nurek Richard Brearley David Nurek Marie-lyse Eliatamby Internal Audit Bradley Tapnack Noel Sumner Stuart Mansfi eld Aik Leow Compliance Bradley Tapnack Richard Brearley Kathryn Farndell Chris Fintan does not take place as expected, operate under board-approved delegated Credit and counterparty with one party effecting required limits, policies and procedures.
There is risk management settlements as they fall due but a high level of executive involvement and not receiving settlements to which non-executive review and oversight in the they are entitled.
In terms of our credit decision-making forums.
It is our Credit and counterparty defi nition, settlement debtors policy that all centralised credit committees risk description receivable in the short term i. e. less have a majority of voting members who Credit and counterparty risk is defi ned than three days are excluded from are independent of the originating business as the current and prospective risk to credit and counterparty risk due unit.
All decisions to enter into a transaction earnings or capital arising from an obligors to market guaranteed settlement are based on unanimous consent.
typically a clients or counterpartys failure mechanisms In addition to the group credit committee, to meet the terms of any obligation to Replacement risk is the risk us or otherwise to perform as agreed.
the following processes assist in managing, following default by the original measuring and monitoring credit and Credit and counterparty risk arises when counterparty resulting in the funds are extended, committed, invested, counterparty risk: contract holder having to enter or otherwise exposed through actual or into a replacement contract with Day-to-day arrears management and implied contractual agreements, whether a second counterparty in order to regular arrears reporting ensure that refl ected onor off-balance sheet.
individual positions and any potential Credit and counterparty risk arises primarily trends are dealt with in a timely manner Credit and counterparty risk can manifest from three types of transactions: as country risk as a result of the geopolitical Watchlist committee, which reviews and transfer risk associated with exposures the management of distressed loans, Lending transactions, giving rise to a arising from transactions with borrowers potential problem loans and exposures direct exposure.
The risk is created that who are resident in a particular foreign in arrears that require additional an obligor will be unable or unwilling 01 country, or dependent on that countrys attention and supervision to repay capital and or interest on economy.
advances and loans granted to it.
This Corporate watch forum, which reviews category includes bank placements, Credit and counterparty risk may also arise and manages exposures that may where we have placed funds with other in other ways and it is the role of the various potentially become distressed as a fi financial institutions independent credit committees, assisted result of changes in the economic by Credit Risk Management, to identify environment or adverse share price Issuer risk on fi financial instruments situations falling outside these defi nitions where payments due from the issuer movements, or that are vulnerable to where credit risk may also be present.
volatile exchange rate or interest rate of a fi financial instrument will not be received movements Credit and counterparty Arrears, default and recoveries forum Trading transactions, giving rise to risk governance structure settlement and replacement risk which specifi cally reviews and manages To manage, measure and mitigate credit distressed loans and potentially collectively counterparty risk : and counterparty risk, independent credit distressed loans for private clients.
Settlement risk is the risk that committees exist in each geography where the settlement of a transaction we assume credit risk.
These committees 12 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Whilst we do not have a separate country We typically originate loans with the Environmental considerations risk committee, the local and global intent of holding these assets to including animal welfare credit committees will consider, analyse maturity, and thereby developing a handsSocial considerations and assess the appropriate limits to be on and longstanding relationship with recorded when required, to assume our clients.
The local In certain instances we have group credit committee has the authority Refer to our sustainability to approve country limits within mandate.
elected to sell certain assets report on our website.
down and or securitise them The global credit committee is responsible Management and measurement for approving country limits not within the refer to pages 48 to 51 for further information.
of credit and counterparty mandate of local group credit committees.
risk Credit and counterparty risk Fundamental principles employed in the Concentration risk appetite management of credit and counterparty Credit risk concentration exists when There is a preference for primary exposure risk are: large exposures exist to a particular in the groups three main operating counterparty or group of connected A clear defi nition of our target market geographies i. e. South Africa, UK and counterparties, or to a particular Australia.
The group will accept exposures A quantitative and qualitative geography, asset class or industry.
where we have a branch banking business.
assessment of the creditworthiness of Concentration risk can also exist where The group will also tolerate exposures our counterparties portfolio loan maturities are clustered to to other countries where it has core single periods in time.
Loan maturities are Analysis of risks, including capabilities.
monitored on a portfolio and transaction concentration risk concentration risk basis by Group Risk and the various Credit and counterparty risk is always considerations include asset class, business units.
Concentration risk can also assessed with reference to the aggregate industry, counterparty and geographical exist where a number of counterparties are exposure to a single counterparty or group concentration engaged in similar activities and have similar of related parties to manage concentration Prudential limits economic characteristics that could cause risk.
their ability to meet contractual obligations Regular monitoring and review of Our assessment of our clients includes to be similarly affected by changes in existing and potential exposures once consideration of their character and economic, legal, regulatory or other facilities have been approved integrity, core competencies, track record conditions.
The board sets a group risk and fi financial strength.
A strong emphasis A high level of executive involvement appetite limit framework which regulates is placed on income and cash fl ow in decision-making with non-executive the maximum exposures we would be streams generated by the clients, third review and oversight.
comfortable to tolerate in order to diversify party income or cash fl ow streams derived and mitigate risk.
This limit framework Regular reporting of credit and counterparty from lease or rental agreements in support is monitored on an ongoing basis and risk exposures within our operating units of property related transactions.
In this reported to ERRF and BRCC on a regular is made to management, the executives manner, we seek comfort in mitigating our basis.
Should there be any breaches to and the board at the BRCC.
The board risk by thoroughly assessing the ability limits or where exposures are nearing limits regularly reviews and approves the appetite of our borrowers to meet their payment these exceptions are specifi cally highlighted for credit and counterparty risk, which is obligations.
documented in risk appetite statements Furthermore we have very little and policy documents and implemented by appetite for unsecured debt and Sustainability considerations Group Credit.
ensure that good quality Overview Despite strict adherence to the above collateral is provided in support Investec has a broad based principles, increased default risk may arise 01 of obligations refer to page 43 approach to sustainability, which runs from unforeseen circumstances particularly for further information.
beyond recognising our own footprint on in times of extreme market volatility and the environment, our many CSI activities Target clients include high net worth weak economic conditions.
individuals, certain professionally qualifi ed and our funding and investing activities.
The relevant credit committees within This is not merely for business reasons, individuals, high-income earning individuals, Investec will also consider wrong-way risk corporate institutions, state-owned but based on a broader responsibility to at the time of granting credit for specifi c our environment and society.
Corporates must products to each counterparty.
Specifi c have scale, experienced management, sustainable risk considerations are wrong-way risk occurs where exposure to considered by the credit committee and able board members and strong earnings a counterparty is positively correlated with cash fl ow.
Interbank lending is largely investment committee when making lending the counterpartys probability of default or investment decisions.
In particular the reserved for those banks and institutions due to the nature of transactions with the in the groups core geographies of activity following factors are taken into account counterparty.
In other words, the markwhen a transaction might be approved which are systemic and highly rated.
Direct to-market value of a transaction and the exposures to cyclical industries and start-up or declined based on the outcome of the likelihood of the counterparty defaulting sustainability considerations: ventures are generally avoided.
increase at the same time.
Investec integrated annual report 2014 13 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Investec completes scenario tests on its The group applies the standardised Credit risk arises from the following loan portfolio with regard to the capital held.
approach for capital requirements in the activities: These tests stress the existing portfolio to assessment of its credit and counterparty Personal Banking delivers products allow the bank to identify underlying risks exposures.
The groups banking to enable target clients to create and and manage them accordingly.
These subsidiaries conduct their mapping of credit manage their wealth, private client and counterparty exposures in accordance stresses include but are not limited to mortgages, transactional banking, high with the mapping procedures specifi ed by residential and commercial property prices, net worth lending, trust and fi duciary, foreign exchange rates, default rates, the Central Bank Registrar, in the respective offshore banking and foreign exchange geographies in which the group operates.
The credit risk stress tests also play an integral part in Residential Mortgages provides Credit and counterparty risk the banks capital planning process.
mortgage loan facilities for high-income nature of lending activities professionals and high net worth A large proportion of the portfolio is individuals tailored to their individual Credit and counterparty risk is assumed not rated by external rating agencies.
needs as well as vanilla mortgage mainly through lending collateralised by We mainly place reliance upon internal products for professional target market property and lending activities by private consideration of counterparties and clients and corporate clients, although some credit borrowers, and use ratings prepared and counterparty risk does arise in other externally where available as support.
Specialised Lending provides structured businesses.
Within the credit approval process internal credit facilities to high net worth individuals and their controlled entities and external ratings are included in the Lending collateralised by property assessment of the client quality.
We provide senior debt and other funding The Professional Finance team for property transactions.
Income producing creates innovative products specifi cally Exposures are classifi ed to refl ect the assets account for the majority of exposure designed to meet the personal bank's risk appetite and strategy.
At a high to lending collateralised by property.
The and professional fi finance needs of level the exposures are classifi ed according portfolio is predominantly made up of predominantly medical, dental and to the Basel asset classes which include commercial property collateral.
This enables sovereign, bank, corporate, retail, equity, these clients to maximise their personal securitisation and specialised lending Client quality and expertise are at the core wealth through cash management and which is further categorised into project of our credit philosophy.
Our exposure to investment opportunities.
fi finance: commodities fi finance: high volatility the property market is well diversifi ed with commercial real estate: and incomestrong bias towards prime locations for An analysis of the private producing commercial real estate.
Internal residential exposure and focus on tenant client loan portfolio and credit rating models are developed to cover quality for commercial assets.
Debt service asset quality information all these asset classes.
The internal ratings cover ratios are a key consideration in the is provided on pages 38 are incorporated in the risk management lending process supported by reasonable to 41. and decision-making process and are loan to security value ratios.
used in credit assessment, monitoring and Corporate Client activities approval as well as pricing.
An analysis of the lending We focus on traditional bank lending activities, collateralised by property as well as treasury and trading execution Fitch, S&P, Moodys and DBRS have portfolio and asset quality services that are customer fl ow related.
been approved as eligible external credit information is provided on assessment institutions ECAIs for the pages 38 to 41.
The treasury function, as part of the purposes of determining external credit daily management of liquidity, places funds ratings with the following elections: Private Client activities with central banks and other commercial We target high net worth individuals, banks and fi financial institutions.
These In relation to sovereigns and active wealthy entrepreneurs, high-income market counterparties are highly rated, securitisations, Fitch, Moodys, professionals, newly qualifi ed professionals investment grade entities with credit risk of S&P and DBRS have been selected with high-income earning potential, selfa systemic nature in Southern Africa, the 01 by Investec as eligible ECAIs employed entrepreneurs, owner managers UK, Europe, Australia and the US.
In relation to banks, corporates and in mid-cap companies and sophisticated A rigorous internal assessment process, debt securities, Fitch, Moodys and investors.
supported by rating agency information, is S&P are recognised as eligible ECAIs undertaken to analyse each counterparty Lending products are targeted to meet to which we may be potentially exposed to If two assessments are available, the the requirements of our clients.
Central ascertain their credit worthiness.
more conservative will apply to our credit philosophy is the concept of sustainability of income through the Our trading portfolio consists of positions Where there are three or more credit cycle.
As such, the client base has been in interest rates, foreign exchange, ratings with different risk weightings, commodities and equities.
We maintain grouped and defi ned to include high net the credit ratings corresponding to the worth clients who, through diversifi cation a thorough risk process that reviews and two lowest ratings should be referred monitors all potential credit risks inherent in of income streams, will reduce income to and the higher of those two ratings volatility and individuals with a profession customer trading facilities.
These positions should be applied.
are marked to market daily with margin calls which has historically supported a high and where necessary to mitigate credit exposure sustainable income stream irrespective of in the event of counterparty default.
the stage in the economic cycle.
14 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Within the corporate lending businesses, Resource Finance: debt arranging and securitisations and secondary market credit risk can arise from asset fi finance, underwriting, together with structured exposures mostly for accrual and to power and infrastructure fi finance, resource hedging solutions within the mining a lesser extent arbitrage purposes, fi finance, corporate loans, growth and and oil and gas sectors.
The underlying generating annuity margin income and acquisition fi finance, asset-based lending, commodities are mainly precious and investment income fund fi finance, debt origination, credit base metals, coal as well as oil and Securitisation: structuring and sale of investments and securitisation activities.
The borrower in most cases is fi financial assets, mostly in the form of There are approved limits specifying the an established mining company or a sale to special purpose entities which maximum exposure to each individual subsidiary thereof.
Any debt exposure issue securities to investors.
counterparty and industry limits, to minimise is secured by the borrowers assets and concentration risk.
Facilities are secured repaid from mining cash fl ows which An analysis of the corporate on the assets of the underlying entity.
are subject to the volatility of the market client loan portfolio and asset The credit appetite for each counterparty prices for the underlying commodity quality information is provided is based on the fi financial strength of the as well as the successful extraction of on pages 38 to 41. principal borrower, underlying cash fl ow resources and security.
Political risk insurance is taken Corporate Advisory and Investment where deemed appropriate.
There is also Corporate Loans: provides senior Banking Activities strong adherence to prudent country risk loans to mid-cap companies.
Credit Counterparty risk in this area is modest.
limits to manage concentration risk on an risk is assessed against debt service The business also trades approved shares ongoing basis.
coverage from the robustness of the on an approved basis and makes markets cash generation for the business based in shares where we are appointed corporate Assets we are involved in are diverse on historic and forecast information.
broker under pre-agreed market risk limits.
and centre around our areas of expertise These loans are predominantly in including, resources, aircraft, equipment Settlement trades are all on a delivery the UK and we act as transaction leasing corporate credit, power and versus payment basis, through major stock leader or arranger.
We have a close infrastructure fi finance.
Credit risk only occurs in the relationship with management and the are required to be of very strong credit event of counterparty failure and would sponsor, as well as having negotiation quality that we are comfortable to hold on be linked to any fair value losses on the infl uence over legal documentation and balance sheet to maturity, or purchased at underlying security.
a meaningful voting percentage in the suffi ciently low distressed prices that we company are happy to hold these assets on balance Wealth & Investment sheet to maturity because of low imputed Growth and Acquisition Finance: Investec Wealth & Investment provides loan to value ratios and strong cash fl ows.
provides debt funding to proven investment management services to private management teams, running small to clients, charities, intermediaries, pension A summary of the nature of the lending mid-cap sized companies.
Wealth & Investment and or credit risk assumed within some of is assessed against debt service is entirely an agency business that takes the key areas within our corporate lending coverage from the robustness of the no principal risk.
Its core business is business is provided below: cash generation of the business.
This discretionary and non-discretionary Small Ticket Asset Finance: provides will be based on historic and forecast investment management services.
lending to corporates to support information Settlement risk can arise due to asset purchases and other business Asset Based Lending: provides undertaking transactions in an agency requirements working capital and business loans capacity on behalf of clients.
However, the Large Ticket Asset Finance: provides secured on collateral or assets used risk is not considered to be material as the fi finance and structuring expertise in the conduct of the business, most transactions are undertaken with large for aircraft and larger lease assets, the for example, accounts receivable, institutional clients, are monitored daily, and majority of which are senior loans with inventory, plant and machinery.
We also trades are usually settled within two days.
a combination of corporate and assetprovide advances against cash fl ow 01 Asset Management backed collateral against the exposure or other assets such as committed income or rights Investec Asset Management regularly Project and Infrastructure Finance transacts with well known rated market PIF : arranges and provides typically Fund Finance: provides bespoke counterparties.
These are all on an long-term fi nancing for infrastructure credit facilities to segregated funds to exchange traded delivery versus payment assets, such as power, transport, facilitate investment opportunities prior basis and exposure is to a movement in social infrastructure PIF private-public to institutional cash calls which the fund the value of the underlying security in the partnerships and telecommunications has on irrevocable commitments.
Fund unlikely event a counterparty fails.
Direct against projected future cash fl ows of Finance will also support management cash placements follow our policy, as an individual project or multiple as well companies in their coinvestment outlined above, of only being exposed to as the balance sheet of a corporate requirements systemic banks of investment grade quality in Southern Africa, the UK, Europe Structured Credit Exposure: in the and the US.
primary markets where we retain portions of the securities of our own Investec integrated annual report 2014 15 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Asset quality analysis credit risk classifi cation and provisioning policy It is a policy requirement overseen by Central Credit Management that each operating division makes provision for specifi c impairments and calculates the appropriate level of portfolio impairments.
This is in accordance with established group guidelines and in conjunction with the watchlist committee process.
In the annual fi financial statements, credit losses and impairments are reported in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Regulatory and economic Arrears, default and recoveries capital classifi cation IFRS impairment treatment classifi cation category Description Performing assets For assets which form part of a Past due An account is considered to be homogeneous portfolio, a portfolio past due when it is greater than impairment is required which zero and less than or equal to recognises asset impairments 60 days past due the contractual that have not been individually credit agreed payment due date.
Management however is not concerned and there is confi dence The portfolio impairment takes into in the counterpartys ability to repay account past events and does not the past due obligations.
cover impairments to exposures Special mention The counterparty is placed arising out of uncertain future events.
in special mention when that counterparty is considered to be By defi nition, this impairment is experiencing diffi culties that may only calculated for credit exposures threaten the counterpartys ability which are managed on a portfolio to fulfi l its credit obligation to the basis and only for assets where a group i. e. watchlist committee loss trigger event has occurred.
is concerned for the following reasons: Covenant breaches There is a slowdown in the counterpartys business activity An adverse trend in operations that signals a potential weakness in the fi financial strength of the counterparty Any restructured credit exposures until appropriate watchlist committee decides otherwise.
Ultimate loss is not expected, but may occur if adverse conditions persist.
Supplementary reporting categories: Credit exposures overdue 01 1 60 days Credit exposures overdue 61 90 days.
16 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Regulatory and economic Arrears, default and recoveries capital classifi cation IFRS impairment treatment classifi cation category Description Assets in default Specifi c impairments are evaluated Sub-standard The counterparty is placed in subnon-performing assets on a case-by-case basis where standard when the credit exposure objective evidence of impairment refl ects an underlying, well defi ned has arisen.
In determining specifi c weakness that may lead to impairments, the following factors probable loss if not corrected: are considered: The risk that such credit Capability of the client to exposure may become an generate suffi cient cash fl ow impaired asset is probable to service debt obligations The bank is relying, to a large and the ongoing viability of the extent, on available collateral, clients business or Likely dividend or amount The primary sources of recoverable on liquidation or repayment are insuffi cient bankruptcy or business rescue to service the remaining Nature and extent of claims by contractual principal and other creditors interest amounts, and the Amount and timing of bank has to rely on secondary expected cash fl ows sources for repayment.
These Realisable value of security secondary sources may held or other credit mitigants include collateral, the sale of Ability of the client to make a fi xed asset, refi nancing and payments in the foreign further capital.
currency, for foreign currency Credit exposures overdue for more denominated accounts.
than 90 days will at a minimum be included in sub-standard or a lower quality category.
Doubtful The counterparty is placed in doubtful when the credit exposure is considered to be impaired, but not yet considered a fi final loss due to some pending factors such as a merger, new fi nancing or capital injection which may strengthen the quality of the relevant exposure.
Loss A counterparty is placed in the loss category when the credit exposure is considered to be uncollectible once all efforts, such as realisation of collateral and institution of legal proceedings, have been exhausted, or 01 Assets in this category are expected to be written off in the short term since the likelihood of future economic benefi ts resulting from such assets are remote.
Investec integrated annual report 2014 17 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued relevant credit committee normally requires Credit risk mitigation a suretyship or guarantee in support of a Investec has Credit risk mitigation techniques can be transaction in our private client business.
limited appetite defi ned as all methods by which Investec Our corporate, government and institutional seeks to decrease the credit risk associated for unsecured clients provide a range of collateral including with an exposure.
Investec considers credit debt, preferring cash, corporate assets, debtors accounts risk mitigation techniques as part of the receivable, trading stock, debt securities to mitigate risk credit assessment of a potential client or bonds, listed and unlisted shares.
business proposal and not as a separate through good consideration of mitigation of risk.
Risk The majority of credit mitigation techniques quality tangible mitigants include any collateral item, netting linked to trading activity is in the form of and margining agreement, covenant or term collateral netting primarily International Swap Dealers and condition imposed on a transaction Association, Global Master Securities with the aim of reducing the credit risk Lending Agreement and International inherent to that transaction.
Securities Master Agreement and margining agreements primarily through As Investec has a low appetite for Credit Support Agreements.
Where netting unsecured debt, the credit risk mitigation agreements have been signed and the technique most commonly used is the enforceability is supported by external legal taking of collateral, primarily over tangible opinion within the legal jurisdiction of the assets.
Collateral is assessed with agreement, the exposures for all product reference to the sustainability of value and categories covered by such agreements the likelihood of realisation.
Acceptable should be stated net of any liabilities owing collateral generally exhibits characteristics by Investec to the agreement counterparty that allow for it to be easily identifi ed and for those product categories.
Set-off has been applied between assets An analysis of collateral is subject to credit risk and related liabilities in provided on page 43. the annual fi financial statements where: Where a transaction is supported by a bond A legally enforceable right to set-off or charge over property, the primary credit exists risk is still taken on the borrower.
When applications for facilities to be secured There is the ability to settle the asset and liability on a net basis, or to by property are submitted to the relevant realise the asset and settle the liability committee, the following characteristics simultaneously.
of the property are considered: type of property: location of property: and the ease In addition to the above accounting set-off with which the property could be re-let criteria, banking regulators impose the and or re-sold.
Where the property is following additional criteria: secured by lease agreements, the credit committee will attempt to lend for a Debit and credit balances relate to the maximum of the period of the lease.
same obligor counterparty The bulk of collateral provided by private Debit and credit balances are clients is commercial and residential real denominated in the same currency and estate.
Commercial real estate generally have identical maturities takes the form of good quality property 01 Exposures subject to set-off are often underpinned by strong third party risk-managed on a net basis leases.
Residential property is also generally of a high quality and based in desirable Market practice considerations.
Residential and commercial property valuations will continue to form For this reason there will be instances part of our ongoing focus on collateral where credit and counterparty exposures assessment.
It is our policy to obtain are displayed on a net basis in these annual a formal valuation of every commercial fi financial statements but reported on a property offered as collateral for a lending gross basis to regulators.
Residential Investec places minimal reliance on credit properties are valued by desktop valuation derivatives in its credit risk mitigation and or approved valuers, where appropriate.
Periodically the bank in the Other common forms of collateral in the UK will enter into Credit Default Swaps retail asset class are motor vehicles, CDS in order to hedge a specifi c asset cash and share portfolios.
In addition, the held or to create a more general or macro 18 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued hedge against a group of exposures in one business.
Default loans net of impairments Please refer to the credit quality industry or geography.
In these instances, have decreased from 4.34% to 3.76% of step table disclosed on pages 97 the bank is deemed to be buying core loans and advances.
The credit loss and 98 for a breakdown of protection against the assets.
regulatory exposure values on the perceived risk, or spread, of the before and after credit risk Private Client lending collateralised by underlying exposure, the CDS will fl uctuate mitigation has been applied.
property gross default loans before in value: increasing in value when the asset collateral and impairments increased has become more risky and decreasing Credit and counterparty risk marginally year-on-year largely due to a when risk has reduced.
Occasionally, the year in review handful of clients experiencing fi financial bank will enter into trading investment CDS UK and Other diffi culty with no other major changes in positions where we buy protection or sell Our focus over the past few years to general trends refl ected in the private client protection without owning the underlying realign and rebalance our portfolios in portfolio.
The assets affected by adverse asset.
The total amount of credit derivatives line with our risk appetite framework is fi financial conditions are predominantly preoutstanding at 31 March 2014 amounts refl ected in the relative changes in asset 2009 transactions.
Assets written post-2009 to 7.5 million, of which 1.9 million is classes on our balance sheet.
We have are of a far better quality both in loan to used for credit mitigation purposes and identifi ed legacy and ongoing portfolios to value terms and underlying cash fl ows.
the balance for trading and investment.
differentiate current lending practices from Total protection bought amounts to Defaults in corporate loans were lower for pre-fi financial crisis transactions.
The overall 13.5million 6.6 million relating to credit the year end 2014.
Due to an improved exposure to property collateralised assets, derivatives used in credit mitigation and economic and market outlook, the Private as a proportion of our total loan exposures total protection sold amounts to 6 million Equity, Bond and IPO markets have has reduced, in line with our risk appetite 4.7million relating to credit derivatives reopened leading to a greater frequency of used in credit mitigation.
In particular, it is pleasing to repayments.
Activity and corporate leverage, report that exposure to higher risk property however, still remain below pre-recession Further information on credit collateralised assets in the planning and levels.
Restructuring of legacy loans is derivatives is provided on development category has reduced by 41% still ongoing in volatile markets such as page 62. from 2010 to 31March 2014. directories and retail.
Investecs legacy loan Investec endeavours to implement robust With respect to our lending activity in our book has been managed down through processes to minimise the possibility of structured property fi finance business, we secondary sales and repayments.
New legal and or operational risk through good continued to actively manage this portfolio corporate loans written in recent years are quality tangible collateral.
Theindependent down and replace legacy assets with higher performing well to date.
legal risk function in Investec ensures the quality lower loan to value transactions enforceability of credit risk mitigants within There was a signifi cant decrease in the supported by good quality clients with Kensington impairment charge.
Theoverall the laws applicable to the jurisdictions in unblemished track records through the which Investec operates.
When assessing Kensington arrears position showed slow fi financial crisis.
Lending supported by the potential concentration risk in its credit steady improvement and the legacy book proven cash fl ows rather than asset value portfolio, cognisance is taken of the types continued to decrease in size.
The Irish propositions continues to be favoured.
Most of collateral and credit protection that form mortgage book, whilst remaining weak, saw property collateralised assets are located part of the portfolio.
signs of stabilisation as house prices have in the UK.
Our exposure to Irish domiciled started to recover.
property has been under intensive For regulatory reporting purposes, management for the past fi five years and exposures may be reduced by eligible The group risk division has continued to the non-performing assets have been collateral.
Under the standardised approach work closely with the business units to substantially impaired with a coverage credit risk mitigation can be achieved manage the impact of the increased risks ratio of 47% at 31 March 2014 which we through either funded or unfunded in the market and resultant pressure on consider to be prudent and adequate.
Where unfunded credit our lending portfolios.
The key focus of the Non-property collateralised lending as protection is relied upon for mitigation group risk division has been on proactive 01 a percentage of gross credit exposures purposes, the exposure to the borrower book management together with the has increased from 59.6% in March 2013 will be substituted with an exposure to business units, repositioning some of our to 63.5% in March 2014.
Theeconomic the protection provider, after applying a portfolios asset mixes as well as taking position in Ireland is improving and Ireland haircut to the value of the collateral due advantage of opportunities that have arisen successfully exited the 2010 85billion to currency and or maturity mismatches as a result of dislocated markets.
Ongoing bailout plan in February 2014. between the original exposure and the and increasing regulation remains a key collateral provided.
Unfunded credit focus of the group risk division as resources Further information is provided protection includes eligible guarantees and are channelled into ensuring compliance in the economic section on credit derivatives.
Where we rely on funded with new and changing rules is adopted pages 28 to 31 in volume one.
protection in the form of fi financial collateral, throughout the group.
the value of collateral is adjusted using the Core loans and advances increased by Southern Africa fi financial collateral comprehensive method.
7.4% from 6.0 billion at 31 March 2013 This method applies supervisory volatility to 6.5 billion at 31 March 2014, largely The fi financial year in review has seen adjustments to the value of the collateral, as a result of solid growth in our residential a combination of trends and factors and includes the currency and maturity owner-occupied mortgage portfolios, impacting on the credit quality and haircuts discussed above.
and steady growth in our Asset Finance assessment of credit and counterparty risk.
Investec integrated annual report 2014 19 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Further information is provided derivative fi financial instruments through the use of Credit Valuation Adjustments CVA.
Credit and in the fi financial review on pages22 to 53 in volume one.
counterparty Credit risk regulatory Against this backdrop, core loans and considerations exposures advances grew by 10.6% to R157 billion Southern Africa decreased by 6.8% with residential owner-occupied and The regulatory environment in South corporate portfolios representing the majority to 37.6billion Africawitnessed few changes in 2014 of the growth for the fi financial year in review.
largely as a result withincreased clarity being provided to the banking industry by the regulator in the form There has been continuing adherence of the depreciation of third tier legislation.
to conservative lending, while still facing of the Rand and greater competitive pressure on margins.
Investec Limiteds capital holding in South Australian Dollar Africa continues to comply with Basel III and Default loans net of impairments as a the South African Banks Act, including the against Pounds percentage of core loans and advances transitional arrangements in place as the improved from 1.89% to 1.46% with an Sterling full implementation of Basel III is phased in.
improvement in both lending collateralised While Basel III has had far-reaching impact by property and the corporate client in terms of liquidity and capital supply, portfolio partly as some transactions have the impact on credit risk capital is limited been settled and some written off.
to relatively small, specifi c portfolios of assets, specifi cally over-the-counter OTC The credit loss ratio improved to 0.42% derivatives and securitisation exposure.
from 0.61% as we saw stability in the level Investec, together with other major banks, of new loans entering into current and continues to engage with SARB through the default categories.
Banking Association of South Africa BASA and bilaterally on matters of interpretation, Our legacy default portfolio which largely particularly in light of the delay in the relates to lending collateralised by property implementation of Basel III in the US and transactions, in certain areas, notably Europe.
We are also actively engaged in residential developments, continues to be formulating our recovery and resolution managed down.
However, this process plan in line with requirements being drafted does take time as we continue to focus on under the proposed recovery and resolution maximising recoveries.
The market eagerly awaits the fi first iteration of the RRR in order to Australia ascertain what potential impacts there Core loans and advances decreased by could be as a result of this new legislation.
3.3%from A$3.2 billion at 31March2013 In addition, we continue to actively participate to A$3.1billion at 31 March 2014. in the bi-annual Basel III implementation Defaultloans net of impairments quantitative impact study.
This assessment decreased from 2.13% to 1.12% of core performed by the major banks in the country loans and advances, with the credit loss is then fed back to the Bank for International ratio deteriorating slightly from 0.85% to Settlements BIS in order for them to gauge 1.12% largely as a result of two larger deals the extent and success of the implementation being written off.
of the Basel III regulations across the globe.
Over the past fi financial year there have The regulatory landscape continues to been continued reductions in the levels of evolve.
The BIS has issued a number of Investec Australias defaulted loans across 01 consultative documents for comment during the legacy property book and also in loans the past year, many revisiting at various originated in the Growth and Acquisition sections of the capital framework in an effort to eliminate opportunities for capital arbitrage.
Examples include the fundamental review of Our Professional Finance business the trading book, which closely examines the continued to show consistent growth as the market risk framework and capital charge, largest segment of the Investec Australia proposed amendments to the securitisation framework and a revised standardised loan book, and has maintained historically approach to calculating counterparty credit low levels of arrears and defaults.
In line with Investecs prudent risk Investec Australias Asset Finance business management and governance frameworks, continued to show strong growth.
we will continue to engage with the regulator and industry bodies as we seek to adopt Thisgranular asset fi finance book is well market best practice in accordance with diversifi ed and continues to show relatively these and any other regulatory amendments.
Counterparty credit risk has been incorporated into the fair valuation of 20 Investec integrated annual report 2014
