Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management appetite as mandated by the board of Overview of disclosure directors through the board risk and capital Group Risk requirements committee.
Business units are ultimately Management responsible for risks that arise.
Risk disclosures provided in line with the objectives are to: We monitor and control risk exposure requirements of International Financial through Credit, Market, Liquidity, Reporting Standard 7 Financial Instruments: Be the custodian of our risk Operational and Legal Risk Reporting Disclosures IFRS 7 and disclosures on management culture teams.
This approach is core to assuming capital required by International Accounting a tolerable risk and reward profi le, helping Standard 1 Presentation of Financial Ensure the business operates us to pursue controlled growth across our Statements IAS 1 are included within this within the board stated risk business.
section of the integrated annual report appetite Group Risk Management operates within On pages 6 to 99 with further Support the long-term an integrated geographical and divisional disclosures provided within the sustainability of the group structure, in line with our management annual fi financial statements by providing an established, approach, ensuring that the appropriate section in volume three.
independent framework processes are used to address all risks for identifying, evaluating, All sections, paragraphs, tables and graphs across the group.
Group Risk Management monitoring and mitigating risk on which an audit opinion is expressed on has specialist divisions in the UK, South are marked as audited.
Set, approve and monitor Africa and Australia and smaller risk adherence to risk parameters divisions in other regions to promote sound Information provided in this section of the and limits across the risk management practices.
integrated annual report is prepared on group and ensure they are an Investec DLC consolidated basis i. e. Group Risk Management divisions with implemented and adhered to incorporating the results of Investec plc and international responsibility are locally consistently Investec Limited, unless otherwise stated.
This helps Aggregate and monitor our to ensure that all initiatives and businesses The Risk disclosures comprise Investec exposure across risk classes operate within our defi ned risk parameters Limited and Investec plcs Pillar III and objectives.
Group Risk Management disclosures as required in terms of Coordinate risk management continually seeks new ways to enhance its Regulation 43 of the regulations relating to activities across the techniques.
banks in South Africa and under the Capital organisation, covering all legal Requirements Regulation pertaining to entities and jurisdictions We believe that the risk management banks in the UK.
systems and processes we have in place Give the boards reasonable are adequate to support the groups The group also publishes Pillar III and other assurance that the risks we strategy as explained on page 12 in volume risk information for its silo entity holding are exposed to are identifi ed one and allow the group to operate within companies and its signifi cant banking and, to the best extent its risk appetite tolerance as set out on subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis.
This possible, managed and page 9. information is contained in the respective controlled annual fi financial statements for those This volume of our integrated annual report, Run appropriate risk respective entities.
explains in detail our approach to managing committees, as mandated by our business within our risk appetite the board.
tolerance, across all main aspects of risk.
Statement from the A summary of the year in chairman of the review from a risk perspective 01 board risk and capital The group remained within the majority of its risk appetite limits targets across the committee various risk disciplines.
Our risk appetite framework as set out on page9 in volume Philosophy and approach to one continues to be assessed in light of risk management prevailing market conditions and group Our comprehensive risk management strategy.
process involves identifying, quantifying, Investec has continued to maintain a sound managing and mitigating the risks balance sheet with low gearing, and a associated with each of our businesses.
This has been Risk awareness, control and compliance supported by the following key operating are embedded in all our day-to-day fundamentals during the year in review: activities.
Group Risk Management Intimate involvement of executive monitors, manages and reports on our management ensuring stringent risks to ensure it is within the stated risk management of risk, liquidity and capital 4 Investec integrated annual report 2014
