Risk management Managing risk: our framework for balancing risk and reward A robust and effective risk management framework is essential for the Group to achieve its strategic objectives and to ensure that the Directors are able to manage the business in a sustainable manner, which protects its employees, partners, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Ongoing consideration of, and regular updates to, the policies intended to mitigate risk enable the effective balancing of risk and reward.
The framework for evaluating risk is: Ongoing process to evaluate and update the risk management framework, to consider the level of risk appetite for each risk and the operating Develop and effectiveness of each line of defence.
communicate strategy and objectives Risk assessments Financial and non-financial Review and Risk are monitored risks are recorded in the monitor Identify and regularly by the Groups risk register.
Risks Framework Audit Committee success of assess risks are analysed for likelihood and overseen by actions and potential impact.
Mitigate risk Required actions are agreed and assigned, and deadlines are set.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 34 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Strategic Report Risk management Strategic Report Risk management Levels of defence applied by the Group: Strategic Board 1 Audit Committee 2 Remuneration Committee 3 Nomination Committee 4 Operational Executive management 5 Investment Committee 6 Legal Compliance 7 External Independent assurance 8 1.
The Board has overall responsibility 4.
The compliance function ensures that for the Groups risk management and that the Board has the appropriate all regulated activity undertaken is internal controls, sets the tone from balance of skills and knowledge within the regulated boundaries and the top, sets the strategic objectives, required to assess and address risk, permissions.
defines the risk appetite and monitors and that appropriate succession plans 8.
Independent assurance is provided by the risk exposure.
The whistleblowing are in place.
the independent auditors and various policy encourages disclosures to be 5.
Executive management identify, assess external consultants and advisers.
addressed to the Board Chairman and and manage the risks identified.
External consultants and advisers or any other Non-executive Director.
support management and the Board 6.
The Audit Committee oversees the through ad hoc consulting activities, the merits of each investment effectiveness of the internal control as required.
proposal and ensures that investment function and risk management decisions are aligned with the Groups systems within the Group.
strategic objectives and within the 3.
The Remuneration Committee acceptable risk limits.
ensures the appropriate incentivisation of Executive Directors and staff.
com 35 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Risk management continued The operations of the Group, and the implementation of its objectives and strategy, are subject to a number of key risks and uncertainties.
All levels of management have responsibility for identifying and reporting on risks, which are reviewed by the Board at least twice a year, and appropriate procedures are put in place to monitor and, to the extent possible, mitigate these risks.
Risk and description Impact Mitigation Risk trend Developments during the year KPI Portfolio company failure directly impacts the Groups value and The Groups staff have significant experience in The Group increased its rate Change in fair value The returns and cash proceeds from the Groups profitability.
sourcing, developing and growing early-stage of capital deployment into its of equity and debt 1 early-stage companies can be very uncertain technology companies to significant value, including portfolio in the year.
At any time, a large proportion of the Groups portfolio value may systematic opportunity evaluation and business building be accounted for by one, or very few, companies, which could Some signs of increased Purchase of equity and The following risks are typically associated with early-stage companies: methodologies.
exacerbate the impact of any impairment or failure of one or more of liquidity and shareholder risk debt investments.
may not be able to secure later rounds of funding: these companies.
Members of the Groups senior team often serve as appetite observed on AIM.
Proceeds from the sale may not be able to source or retain appropriately skilled staff: non-executive directors or advisers to portfolio Cash realisations from the Groups portfolio through trade sales and The Group raised 97.4m net of equity investments.
companies to help identify and remedy critical issues competing technologies may enter the market: IPOs could vary significantly from year to year.
of expenses during the year, promptly.
and increased cash reserves technology can be materially unproven and may fail: Support on operational, legal and company secretarial through the acquisition of IP may be infringed, copied or stolen: matters is offered to minimise failures due to common Fusion IP.
may be more susceptible to cyber-crime: and administrative factors.
In addition, the Group other administrative, taxation or compliance issues may lead to The Group has spin-out company holdings across announced a further proposed company failure.
different sectors to reduce the impact of a single financing to raise 128m company failure or sector demise.
The Group maintains significant cash balances and seeks to employ a capital efficient process deploying low levels of initial capital to enable identification and mitigation of potential failures at the earliest possible stage.
The UKs recession has had and may continue to have an adverse The Group has significant balance sheet and Economic conditions improved Change in fair value It may be difficult for the Group and its early-stage effect on trading conditions and availability of capital in the UK, managed funds capital to deploy in attractive portfolio in the UK and increased of equity and debt 2 companies to attract capital.
liquidity and risk appetite in investments.
the equity capital markets has The success of those portfolio companies which require significant The Group operates a corporate finance function Total equity net The Groups operations are reliant on capital markets, particularly those in been observed, albeit from a funding in the future may be influenced by the markets appetite for which carries out fundraising mandates for portfolio assets.
As the Groups operations, and the operations of the majority of low base.
investment in early stage companies, which may not be sufficient.
its portfolio companies, are based in the UK, the financial and operational Profit loss attributable The Group raised 97.4m performance of the Group and particularly the ability of its portfolio Failure of companies within the Groups portfolio may make it more The Group maintains close relationships with a wide to equity holders.
net of expenses in February companies to attract development capital is influenced by the general difficult for the Group or its spin-out companies to raise additional variety of co-investors that focus on companies at leading to an increase in capital economic climate and trading conditions in the UK.
Termination or non-renewal of arrangements through failure to The Group continues to consider and, where PoP agreement extended with Number of new portfolio Universities or other research intensive institutions may perform obligations may result in the loss of exclusive rights.
appropriate, enter into new and innovative partnerships University of Manchester.
3 terminate their partnerships or other collaborative and collaborations with research institutions.
The loss of exclusive rights may limit the Groups ability to secure Pilot agreement signed with relationships with the Group attractive IP opportunities to commercialise.
The Group has been able to source opportunities Princeton University: the Group through non-exclusive relationships and other sources.
now has agreements with three The Groups business, results of operations and prospects are at least This could potentially have a material adverse effect on the Groups Ivy League US universities.
partially dependent on competitive advantage gained from access to long-term business, results of operations, performance and prospects.
Members of the Groups senior team work closely with leading scientific research through partnerships and other collaborative partner institutions to ensure that each commercial Oxford Chemistry contract With several new entrants to our market, this may reduce our arrangements with research intensive institutions and commercial relationship is mutually beneficial and productive.
expires in November 2015. opportunities to create new spin-out businesses.
partners such as Technikos LLP and Cambridge Innovation Capital.
The The Groups track record in IP commercialisation Deeper access to Fusion IP Group may be unable to recreate these elements of its competitive may make the Group a partner of choice for other university partners.
advantage in other geographies in which it may seek to operate such as institutions, acting as a barrier to entry to competitors.
with Department of Energy national labs in the US.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 36 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Strategic Report Risk management Strategic Report Risk management Were more than one of the risks to occur together, the overall impact on the Group may be compounded.
A summary of the key risks affecting the Group and the steps taken to manage these is set out below.
Further discussion of the key risks and uncertainties are given on pages 56 and 57 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Key: Increase Decrease No change Stock Code: IPO www.
com 37 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Risk management continued Risk and description Impact Mitigation Risk trend Developments during the year KPI Loss of key executives and employees of the Group or an inability to Senior team succession plans are in place and updated The Group continues Total equity net assets The Group may lose key personnel or fail to attract and attract, retain and integrate appropriately skilled and experienced staff regularly.
to dedicate resources 4 Number of new portfolio integrate new personnel could have an adverse effect on the Groups competitive advantage, to remuneration and The Group carries out regular market comparisons for companies business, financial condition, operational results and or future incentivisation.
The industry in which the Group operates is a specialised area and the prospects.
Staff base increased through Group requires highly qualified and experienced employees.
There is a The Group seeks to offer a balanced incentive package acquisition of Fusion IP.
risk that the Groups employees could be approached and solicited by comprising a mix of salary, benefits,  or other technology-based companies and organisations, based long-term incentives and benefits such as flexible Staff attrition remained low or could otherwise choose to leave the Group.
Given the relatively small working and salary sacrifice arrangements.
and the Group recruited 13 size of the Group, its operations are reliant on a small number of key new members to the team The long-term incentives for all senior staff are in the individuals.
Scaling the team, particularly into foreign jurisdictions such as excluding staff joining from form of shares in the Group and all executives are the US, presents an additional potential risk.
Approximately 40% shareholders in the business.
of staff have been with the The Group encourages staff development and inclusion Company for at least five years.
Deepening of sector expertise and increased autonomy through divisional approach.
Changes could result in universities and research institutions no longer University partners are incentivised to protect their IP for Ongoing focus on regulatory Total equity net assets.
There may be changes to, or impacts from, legislation, being able to own, exploit or protect intellectual property.
exploitation as the partnership agreements share returns compliance including third 5 government policy and regulation between universities, academic founders and the Group.
Changes in government policy or legislation may make it unattractive for research academics to participate in the commercialisation of the The Groups university partners also maintain close links UK and US Governments have There may be unforeseen changes in, or impacts from, government IP that they create.
with the government to manage their position with emphasised their ongoing policy, regulation or legislation including taxation legislation.
This could respect to future legislative changes.
support for scientific research include changes to funding levels or to the terms upon which public Changes to tax legislation or the nature of the Groups activities, in with UK funding ring-fenced moneys are made available to universities and research institutions and particular in relation to the substantial shareholder exemption, may The Group utilises professional advisers as appropriate to to 2021. the ownership of any resulting intellectual property.
adversely affect the Groups tax position and accordingly its value and support its monitoring of, and response to changes in, operations.
The Group operates an FCA-authorised subsidiary and regulatory The Group has internal policies and procedures to changes or breaches could ultimately lead to withdrawal of regulatory ensure its compliance with applicable FCA regulations permissions, loss of fund management contracts, reputational damage and these are subject to external review.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 38 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Strategic Report Risk management Strategic Report Risk management Risk and description Impact Mitigation Risk trend Developments during the year KPI Loss of key executives and employees of the Group or an inability to Senior team succession plans are in place and updated The Group continues Total equity net assets The Group may lose key personnel or fail to attract and attract, retain and integrate appropriately skilled and experienced staff regularly.
com 39 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Building a sustainable business Our values: Passionate Pioneering Principled IP Group aims to conduct its business Our business ethics and social responsibility in a socially responsible manner, to Our goal is to build a sustainable and viable business.
As part of contribute to the communities in which that, the Group seeks to conduct all of its operating and business it operates and to respect the needs of activities in an honest, ethical and socially responsible manner its employees and all of its stakeholders.
and these values underpin our business model and strategy.
We are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity The Group is committed to growing in all our business dealings and relationships with consideration the business while ensuring a safe for the needs of all of our stakeholders which include university partners, investors, suppliers, employees, and the businesses in environment for employees as well as which the Group has holdings.
minimising the overall impact on the IP Group pioneered the concept of the long-term partnership environment.
model with UK universities and now has arrangements covering 15 IP Group endeavours to conduct its of the UKs leading universities as well as pilot schemes with three of the USs Ivy League universities.
The Group seeks to ensure that business in accordance with established these partnerships are mutually beneficial and maintains an open best practice, to be a responsible two-way dialogue as it seeks to identify exciting opportunities.
We employer and to adopt values and believe that our approach to providing executive and administrative support, where appropriate, to portfolio companies gives their standards designed to help guide staff in founders the best possible chance of building a successful their conduct and business relationships.
Our support of early-stage businesses demonstrates our Greg Smith Chief Financial Officer alignment with government initiatives in science and innovation and contributes to employment growth in the communities in which our portfolio companies operate.
In addition to the support they receive from the Group, our portfolio businesses often seek funding from other sources, both public such as government-backed grant funding and private from sources ranging from angel investors and small privately-owned funds to large institutional investors, and the Group will often assist in gaining access to this financial capital.
The Group complies with all applicable legislation in this respect and communicates with its co-investors in an appropriate and transparent manner.
As a publicly traded entity, IP Group actively seeks to engage and maintain an open dialogue with its private and institutional shareholders through its investor relations programme.
Although the adverse social and environmental impact of the Groups day-to-day activities is relatively limited, we do recognise that the more significant impact occurs indirectly through the nature and operations of the companies that we choose to support with financial and human capital.
Our portfolio companies, which are primarily focused on the biotechnology, technology, healthcare and clean technology sectors, are developing solutions to some of the most significant social, environmental and health challenges faced in the world today.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 40 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Strategic Report Building a sustainable business Strategic Report Building a sustainable business IP Group employees cycled from London to Paris in two days to raise money for Teach First and PACE While the Group is pleased to support these world-changing Breakdown of staff by gender as at date of report innovations, it recognises the importance of ensuring that the Total Staff: 59 excl.
NEDs Female Male businesses it establishes and nurtures comply with all applicable Staff 48% 52% environmental, ethical and social legislation.
IP Groups direct involvement in its portfolio companies allows greater scope to Executive Committee 29% 71% engage with the management teams of these companies and Board of Directors 11% 89% guide them on these matters.
The Group works with a variety of suppliers and seeks to ensure Health and Safety that there is diversity in the supply chain, working with SMEs as well Staff and management at all levels are responsible for the as larger organisations.
When selecting a supplier, we aim to ensure promotion of, and adherence to, health and safety measures that the procurement process is clear and that all parties have equal in the workplace.
The Chief Operating Officer has overall access to information.
Where possible we work with local suppliers responsibility for the implementation of the Groups health and therefore impacting positively on the communities where we safety policies and procedures.
The primary purpose of the operate.
The Group is a signatory to the Prompt Payment Code.
Groups health and safety policy is to enable all members of The Group seeks to operate as a responsible employer and has the Groups staff to go about their everyday business at work in adopted standards which promote corporate values designed the expectation that they can do so safely and without risk to to help and guide employees in their conduct and business their health.
During the years ended 31 December 2014 and 31 relationships.
The Group seeks to comply with all laws, regulations December 2013, no reportable accidents occurred under UK and rules applicable to its business and to conduct the business Health and Safety regulations.
in line with applicable established best practice.
We take a zero Copies of the Groups policies in relation to equal opportunities tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and implement and diversity, health and safety and anti-corruption and bribery and enforce effective systems to counter bribery.
The Group is can be found on the Groups website: www.
bound by the laws of the UK, including the Bribery Act 2010, and has implemented policies and procedures based on such laws.
Sourcing and retaining talent All employees who are involved with the regulated business of The Group operates in a specialised area of industry and therefore the managing investment transactions receive compliance and Groups ability to attract and retain highly qualified and experienced anti-money laundering training, with periodic refresher courses.
employees is considered to be fundamental to its success.
We recruit from a variety of sources.
Many of our employees have a Employee diversity and deep scientific background, professional qualifications and or employment policies have extensive industry experience.
Once we have recruited highly The Group operates an equal opportunity policy in the selection, talented members of staff, it is important that we retain them.
We training, career development and promotion of employees, achieve this by providing a dynamic and entrepreneurial environment regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, in which our employees are able to develop their skills usually religion and whether disabled or otherwise.
For the year ended through work-based learning with senior members of staff acting 31 December 2014, the Group employed an average of 49 as coaches and mentors and where knowledge-sharing is employees and five non-executive directors, and a breakdown encouraged.
Regular all-staff update meetings enable employees to of staff by gender can be seen in the table above right.
IP Group receive an update on company progress and objectives.
supports the rights of all people as set out in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ensures that all transactions In addition to providing an attractive work environment, the the Group enters into uphold these principles.
Group also recognises the requirement for staff to be rewarded via appropriate remuneration packages.
The Group seeks to offer a balanced incentive package comprising a mix of salary, benefits and performance-based long-term incentives as well as flexible working arrangements.
Regular market comparisons are carried out in this respect.
com 41 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Building a sustainable business continued During the year, the Group held a series of workshops in which Methodology staff were invited to give feedback on their view of the Company.
As in 2013, the Group employed the services of specialist adviser, Overall, employees stated that they were proud to work for IP Verco, to quantify the GHG emissions associated with the Group and believed in the Companys approach to building Groups operations.
sustainable businesses, which are producing new technologies The following methodology was applied by Verco in the to solve various social and environmental issues.
Employees preparation and presentation of this data: highlighted the working environment, work life balance and celebrating our successes as areas for improvement and the the Greenhouse Gas Protocol published by the World Directors are considering how these may be addressed.
The Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Groups success in retaining employees is reflected in its low staff Resources Institute the WBCSD WRI GHG Protocol : attrition rate and approximately 40% of our employees having application of Defra emission factors to the Groups activities been with the Company for five years or more.
to calculate GHG emissions: Operating in an environmentally inclusion of all the applicable Kyoto gases, expressed in responsible manner carbon dioxide equivalents, or CO e: 2 IP Groups operations are office-based, with 59 employees in presentation of gross emissions as the Group does not five main locations in the UK and shared office space in the US: purchase carbon credits or equivalents.
therefore, we consider that the direct environmental impact of our employees is relatively low.
However, we firmly recognise Intensity ratio our responsibility to ensure that the business operates in an As well as reporting the absolute emissions, the Groups GHG environmentally responsible and sustainable manner.
Employees emissions are reported opposite on the metric of tonnes per are encouraged to reduce their impact on the environment by square metre of occupied office space.
This is considered the hosting meetings via video conference where possible, thereby most appropriate metric given that the majority of emissions result only engaging in business travel when necessary, using public from the operation of the Groups offices and the day-to-day transport and by minimising the usage of paper.
Recycling activities of the employees.
In 2013, the Group also reported on facilities are provided in our offices.
While the Board as a whole metric tonnes of CO e per employee.
The management team has 2 has primary responsibility for environmental issues, it has allocated decided that this is no longer an appropriate metric, as there is no day-to-day responsibility for the review of environmental and significant relationship between the number of employees and social issues to the Chief Financial Officer, Greg Smith.
This section includes our mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions, as well as wider details on the Groups environmental Case study: impact.
The reporting period for emissions and waste production is the same as the Groups fiscal year.
Reaching out to Organisation boundary and scope young people of emissions The section below includes our mandatory reporting of Career Ready is a national Four students were shortlisted for greenhouse gas emissions.
The reporting period is the same charity which links schools and a telephone interview and two as the Groups financial year.
We have reported on all of the colleges with employers to help were subsequently selected for prepare young people for the work experience.
emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 world of work.
Career Ready Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These The two successful students students are often from urban joined the team in London sources fall within our consolidated financial statements.
for a week, spending time During the autumn half-term with different departments An operational control approach has been used in order to define holiday of 2014, the Group and meeting a wide range of our organisational boundary.
This is the basis for determining the worked with Career Ready to colleagues.
A day was also spent run a pilot work experience at Retroscreen Virology, one of Scope 1 and 2 emissions for which the Group is responsible.
programme in London for sixth IP Groups portfolio companies, For the avoidance of doubt, this excludes any emissions from form students who might not and the students visited the BBC normally get to experience Television Centre for a tour of our portfolio companies.
Management believes the approach working life in the city.
the buildings to find out what taken best captures the emissions for which the Group is directly life in communications might At the start of the programme, responsible and over which it has control.
Feedback from both the a selection of Career Ready students and IP Groups staff students were invited to an open was positive and the Group morning and a presentation to looks forward to running future learn about what IP Group does programmes of this nature.
and some of the companies the Group is involved with developing.
Following the open morning, the students were invited to apply for work experience by sending a cover letter and CV.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 42 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Strategic Report Building a sustainable business Strategic Report Building a sustainable business Target and baselines Given the comparatively low GHG impact of the Groups operations, the Groups objective is to maintain or reduce its GHG per square metre of office space each year and will report each year whether it has been successful in this regard.
2 2 For 2014, the intensity metric has increased from 0.11 tCO e per m to 0.13 tCO e per m. This is primarily due to the increased energy 2 2 intensity associated with newly occupied office space in Sheffield.
Scope 1 being emissions from the Groups combustion of fuel and operation of facilities.
Scope 2 being electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for the Groups own use.
Scope 3 being emissions which the Group is not directly responsible for, but arise as a by-product of its operation.
2013 emissions have been restated to correct a calculation error made by Verco in the prior year.
The variance was primarily associated with scope 3 emissions, primarily that the carbon factor for Business Air Travel had been incorrectly applied.
The Groups GHG reporting and review procedures have now been amended to ensure the figures provided by Verco are subject to a more robust review.
Community engagement Breakdown of emissions by scope The Group seeks to have a positive impact on the communities 2% in which it operates and one of the ways in which it achieves this is through charitable support at both a Group level and by staff.
The Group aims to donate up to 1% of the previous years realised profits to one or more charities which have a particular 38% relevance to IP Groups activities or to members of our team.
The 60% Groups chosen charities in 2014 were Teach First, which trains and supports committed individuals to become inspirational classroom leaders in low-income communities, and PACE, a charity that transforms the lives of children and young people with motor disorders, such as cerebral palsy.
Further details of the activities of these charities are set out on the Groups Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 website: www.
In 2014, IP Group employees raised a total of 13,500 for charity through various activities which included the sponsorship of 14 employees cycling from London to Paris in two days.
In line with its stated policy, the Group donated an additional 27,500.
For the first time, in 2014, the Group partnered with Career Board approval Ready, a UK national charity which links schools and colleges with employers to help prepare young people for the world of work, and invited two sixth form students to take part in one The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 01 to 43, weeks work experience with the Group.
has been approved by the Board.
ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD Dr Bruce Smith Chairman 9 March 2015 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 43 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Heading One Develop To build and maintain a pipeline of compelling intellectual property-based opportunities 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Our Governance Overview Board of Directors 46 Corporate Governance 48 Committee Reports Directors Remuneration Report 58 Report of the Audit Committee 75 Other Statutory Directors report 79 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 81 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015
