Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT As a global company, JLT faces a range of own business and regulatory environment, reference to their appetite for those risks.
risks, each of which has the potential to while conforming to Group standards and This approach allows for open, challenging impact on the achievement of our strategic guidelines.
The responsibility for internal dialogue about the key issues and business objectives as well as providing controls within associated undertakings opportunities for each business.
The opportunity in the right circumstances.
rests with the senior management of those external auditor typically attends at least operations.
The role of the Group is twoone of these meetings per year.
JLTs Corporate Governance fold: However, the Directors acknowledge that The Group undertook an extensive review To monitor its investments and to exert they are responsible for the Groups risk of its risk & control framework influence, normally through Board management, internal control systems and arrangements during 2013 and 2014.
The representation: for reviewing their effectiveness.
enhancements have now been applied To develop Group policy and globally in each of the regions in which JLT Principal risks standards which each business operates and are subject to on-going The principal risks faced by the Group are adopts, implements and, if necessary, iterative enhancement.
summarised in the table below.
adds to in order to ensure a robust The Group operates a three lines of control environment.
Financial risks defence governance model.
The first line the business is responsible for the Where relevant, entity Boards delegate The principal financial risks are also identification and management of all the authority to their Audit and Risk discussed in more detail in the Finance risks inherent in its operations: the second Committees ARCs.
Each ARC has two Directors Review on pages 39 and 40. line Group Risk & Compliance provide non-executive directors, many of whom advice, guidance and challenge to the are independent of the Group, one of business: the third line Group Internal which is Chair of the committee.
The first, Audit independently assesses and reports second and third lines of defence each on the effectiveness of governance, risk attend ARC meetings and provide a Mike Reynolds management and internal controls.
focused report to promote discussion and Finance Director agreement on the treatment of the Each operating company maintains 10th March 2015 businesss key risks and controls, with controls and procedures appropriate to its Principal Risks Nature of Risk Risk Mitigation STRATEGIC RISKS Economic instability JLTs business is more tied to economic Fee versus commission strategy activity and growth rather than market rates, Natural diversification through Group companies since greater levels of corporate activity drive Regular review at GEC and at Board level greater demand for the Groups services.
Strategic Risks There are risks to the business model arising Board review of strategic risks from changes in external events, our markets Strategic review and planning process and customer behaviour as well as risks Global efficiency initiative arising from mergers and acquisitions.
Acquisition due diligence and risk assessment processes OPERATIONAL RISKS The Groups core asset is its people.
Therefore Succession planning processes Loss of Key Staff there is a risk that the organisation may not be Effective appraisal and development programmes able to attract and retain market leading talent.
Robust contracts of employment Effective remuneration strategies Business Interruption The Group operates from over 100 offices in Dedicated Group Business Continuity Management 39 territories across the world, each with a function unique local environment.
There is a risk of a Detailed Group business continuity policy and business interruption due to a large external procedures event.
Regular independent review and testing of business continuity plans Loss of IT Environment The JLT businesses are reliant on the ability to Detailed IT policy and procedures in place process its transactions on behalf of its clients.
Strong governance procedures over IT outsourcing and Risks arising from non-performance of an IT service level agreements in place supplier, malicious act, cyber crime and staff Monitoring of compliance with Group IT security policy not following Group IT policies and and service level agreements procedures.
Limits of authority in place Annual IT Disaster Recovery Plan test by each business 41 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT CONTINUED Principal Risks Nature of Risk Risk Mitigation Information Security Intermediaries and pension administrators Group Information Security Policy retain confidential data in the normal course of Dedicated information risk and data protection functions business.
Risk of loss of records, breach of Risk based monitoring and reviews performed by Group confidentiality or inadequate security measures IT Security and Internal Audit need to be managed.
Intermediaries run a risk of incurring a loss if Common operating procedures and compliance policy Errors & Omissions the operating procedures in place across the Continuous training in errors and omissions avoidance Group are not complied with or alleged Central and regional risk and compliance monitoring negligence in provision of services advice Strong procedural and systems controls including becomes apparent.
workflow management Regular and ongoing quality assurance programmes Professional indemnity insurance programme The JLT Group operates in a regulated Common operating procedures and compliance policy Regulatory Sanctions environment in many jurisdictions across the Financial Crime Regular sanctions and third party payments screening world.
Risks arise from non-compliance with or programme misinterpretation of local and international Continuous staff training programmes regulations and failure to meet regulatory standards.
Central and regional risk and compliance resource FINANCIAL RISKS Capital Risk and Risks arising from an inability to maintain an Monthly management reviews of balance sheets efficient capital structure and ensure an Liquidity Management of refinancing and liquidity risk including optimal cost of capital.
maintenance of adequate, committed credit facilities Compliance with regulatory minimum capital resources and regular stress testing The Group operates in 39 territories and incurs Prudent management of currency exposures through the Foreign Currency foreign exchange exposures in the normal maintenance of rolling hedging programme using forward course of business.
foreign currency transactions and derivatives where appropriate Regular review and sensitivity analysis Interest Rate Risk Risk of adverse impact on earnings from net Prudent use of interest rate hedging instruments where exposure to changes in interest rates.
appropriate to hedge future interest rate exposures Counterparty Risk There is a risk to JLT if there is a failure of a Board approved investment and counterparty policy to: key counterparty resulting in a loss of own - limit the concentration of funds and exposure with any cash, fiduciary funds, investments & deposits, one counter-party derivative assets and trade receivables.
- defined cash and investments policy Active management and monitoring of counterparty limits, financial strength and credit profile of key counterparties Regular review by Board and Audit & Risk Committee of counterparty limits, ratings, credit default swap spread rates, utilisation levels and compliance with applicable regulation Risk of adverse impact on the Balance Sheet Regular monitoring and reporting of scheme asset Defined Benefit Pension and Income Statement as a consequence of performance and liability positions Scheme increase in Defined Benefit Pension Scheme Appropriate scheme investment strategy and deficit.
diversification Rolling triennial actuarial valuations and regular trustee funding updates Appropriate deficit funding basis Regular review of long term fide-risking strategy Regular scheme membership data verification Effective independent trustee governance Regular review of employer covenant 42
