Risk management framework Risk management Maintenance of the Groups risk management and internal control and principal risks systems is the responsibility of and a key focus for the Board of Directors.
The The system of internal controls Boards role is to ensure that the risks taken by the Group are understood and appropriate in light of its strategy and utilised to identify, assess, corporate goals, and that adequate internal processes are in place to identify, manage and mitigate the key assess, monitor, manage and mitigate key risks effectively.
The Company has risks facing the business adopted a risk management strategy intended to achieve that objective, regarding both risks arising from the internal operations of the Group and also those arising from the continually changing business environment and markets in which it operates.
While the Company aims to manage such risks, no risk management strategy can provide absolute assurance against loss.
Risk management is embedded throughout the Groups operations and functions including Finance, Research and Development, Manufacturing and Quality, Regulatory, Environmental Health and Safety, Sales and Marketing Compliance, IT, Human Resources, Legal and Intellectual Property Management.
Risks are identified and assessed in terms of likelihood and potential impact by operational staff and managers in the different business areas and are collated Group-wide into a composite Risk Register by a Risk Committee, which comprises senior members of staff representing relevant parts of the business and key functions.
The Risk Committee is chaired by the CFO, Rolf Soderstrom.
Individuals in the business managing discrete risks on a day-to-day basis update their sections of the Risk Register regularly and the overall Risk Register is reviewed twice yearly by the Risk Committee and formally reported to the Audit Committee, following which it is considered by the Board.
The focus is on identifying and understanding newly emergent risks, progress of agreed mitigation strategies and any changes to the likelihood or potential impact of key risks.
Each key risk is allocated a business owner, overseen by the relevant member of the Leadership Team.
The Audit Committee review focuses on risks that are rated ten or more on a 25-point scale, which results from multiplying the likelihood and impact scores, each of which is rated on a five-point scale.
There are currently 16 such key risks compared with 17 in the prior year.
Included within the reports to the Audit Committee is an explanation of any changes in the risks, controls, mitigation, impact or likelihood since the last report, so the Audit Committee can clearly understand what has changed in the business, how the risks are being addressed and the adequacy and impact of the mitigation efforts.
30 The Audit Committee then summarises opportunities into the Group.
Failure supply: rigorous quality control the risk report and its findings to the to in-license, acquire or develop procedures in place: regular checks whole Board, its understanding of the and effectively progress or integrate made on sheep flock health: disaster risks inherent to the industry and specific new product opportunities on recovery plans under regular review.
to the Group, its level of comfort that the a commercially viable basis, could In accordance with the risk rating the risks being taken are appropriate in light have a material adverse effect on the Company will continue to focus on of the Groups strategy and that mitigating Companys revenues.
this area to ensure market demand actions are appropriate and effective.
for products can continue to be met Specifically assessed risks: as has historically been the case.
From time-to-time the Audit Committee 1.
External supply chain will undertake a deep dive assessment Impact: We rely on third-party contractors Changes in 2013 14: The acquisition of a critical risk to better understand its for the supply of many key materials and of EKOS Corporation resulted in an nature and to consider available services, such as supply of components additional significant BTG product line mitigation options that could be deployed and the filling and freeze-drying of end being dependent on an internal single to better manage that risk, together with products in the Specialty manufacturing site Seattle.
The disposal the costs, timelines and likelihood of Pharmaceuticals business.
These of the Brachytherapy business addressed success of those options.
This process processes inherently carry risks of failure an internal manufacturing risk that assists the Board to shape the definition and loss of product and are risks over materialised during the year receipt of the Groups risk appetite, having which the Company has a lower degree of of an FDA warning letter relating to the ensured it is appropriate with regard to control.
Problems at contractors facilities Brachytherapy Oxford, US site.
The Board also such as technical issues, contamination 3.
Intellectual property, know-how, trade considers new material risks in a timely and regulatory actions may lead to delays secrets fashion as they arise.
and disruptions or loss of supply or Impact: BTG may be subject to challenges available capacity.
Some materials and The risk group works in coordination with relating to the validity of its patents or services may only be available from one the Internal Audit group and Compliance, alleging infringement by BTG of source and regulatory requirements may Development, Quality and other intellectual property rights of others, make substitution costly, time-consuming assurance groups to integrate governance which might result in cessation of product or commercially unviable.
activities to ensure an overall robust risk sales, litigation and or settlement costs management process.
Mitigation: Rigorous monitoring of and or loss of earnings.
BTG might elect to suppliers: maintenance of adequate sue third-parties for their infringement of Principal risks product and component inventories: its patents in order to protect product Here we describe what we believe are the dual sourcing implemented or being revenue streams.
Litigation, especially in most significant risks that could investigated where practicable.
In the US, involves significant costs and materially affect the Groups ability to accordance with the risk rating the uncertainties.
Failure by BTG to maintain achieve its financial and operating Company will continue to focus on or renew key patents might lead to losses objectives.
The list is not exhaustive this area to ensure market demand for of earnings and liabilities to licensees or although other risks are deemed less products can continue to be met as licensors.
BTG may not be able to secure material at this time.
Some risks are has historically been the case.
or maintain the necessary intellectual generic to the industry in which the Group property rights in relation to products operates: others are specific to the Change in 2013 14: The acquisition of acquired or in development, limiting Group and inherent in the Companys TheraSphere has increased our reliance the potential to generate value from strategy.
The Company considers all these on third-party manufacturing given our these products and investments.
risks relevant to any decision to invest in dependency on Nordion as the sole Changes in patent laws and other the Company.
We are intellectual property regulations in assessing options to secure additional territories where BTG or its licensees As a general risk the existing and future product capacity through the external conduct business that make it more products launched by the Company may supply chain.
difficult or time-consuming to obtain or not be a commercial success: depending enforce patents, or which reduce the on the receipt and scope of the applicable 2.
Internal supply chain available term of granted patents or required marketing approvals and the Impact: BTG relies on its single site in periods of market exclusivity protection, time and investments required to obtain Wales for supply of manufactured could adversely impact the Groups approvals : product acceptance by antibody products, and a single site in financial performance.
physicians and patients: commercially Farnham, UK, for the manufacture of the viable levels of product reimbursement Bead and Varithena products with the Patent expiries can adversely impact the being established: safety and efficacy consequent possibilities for disruption to Groups revenues.
Currently, BTG earns continuing to be demonstrated, and or loss of supplies resulting from, for significant royalties from sales of Johnson the impact of competition.
The example, technical issues, contamination & Johnsons Zytiga abiraterone acetate, pharmaceutical and device industries or regulatory actions.
BTGs polyclonal which may be subject to generic are generally competitive and require antibody products rely on serum produced competition in the US from our 2016 17 substantial ongoing product innovation, from our sheep flocks in Australia, which financial year when the US composition of investment and product development to could be subject to disease outbreaks or matter patent expires, and in the EU from sustain a competitive advantage.
BTG manufactures its EKOS products our 2020 21 financial year when the products could be rendered obsolete, at a single site in Seattle, WA, USA, with ten-year data post-approval exclusivity uncompetitive or uneconomic having the consequent possibilities for disruption period ends.
regard to product development by other to or loss of supply.
companies and changing regulatory BTGs patent portfolio is currently subject Mitigation: Dual sourcing is being requirements.
The Companys success will to several challenges.
investigated where practicable: continue to depend on its ability to inventories are being increased or Enforcement of third-party patents develop, in-license or acquire new maintained and monitored through a against BTG may prevent BTG selling products and businesses and to realise sales and operational planning process: products or require BTG to pay royalties or the expected benefits from such activities production changes implemented where other compensation to the patent holder.
by the application of greater resources needed to ensure continued product and effectively integrating the BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31 Strategic report BTG may rely upon know-how and trade competes globally with a product from Risk management secrets to protect its products and Australian company SirTex: Varithena maintain a competitive advantage, which competes with other treatment modalities and principal risks may be important where patent protection including heat ablation, vein stripping and is limited or absent.
BTG may have to sue physician-compounded sclerosing foam: continued third parties to protect its know-how and EKOS competes with other interventional trade secrets: failure to maintain them clot treatment products from US could result in the loss of earnings.
companies Covidien, Bayer MedRad and others.
In Licensing, Zytiga abiraterone Mitigation: Dedicated internal resource, acetate competes with a number of supplemented by external expertise, recently approved treatments for monitors third-party patent portfolios and advanced prostate cancer including patent applications and intellectual Xtandi enzalutamide.
property rights: development and implementation of BTG patent filing, Mitigation: BTG focuses on niche defence and enforcement strategies: opportunities, addressing specialist robust processes are in place to automate segments where there are high barriers patent renewals: internal controls to entry, for example, relating to the established to avoid disclosure of development and manufacturing patentable material prior to filing patent processes, or to the need to generate applications and to protect know-how.
significant supportive clinical data to gain approval and commercial Change in 2013 14: Intellectual Property IP acceptance.
We seek to differentiate management has been made more complex our products by demonstrating in by the acquisitions of TheraSphere and clinical trials safety and efficacy EKOS Corporation which are now overseen benefits, or greater patient acceptance.
The IP landscape is generally more complex in the Change in 2013 14: Following the Interventional Medicine market place acquisition of EKOS and TheraSphere rendering IP management more and the approval of Varithena, we now challenging.
BTG is enforcing its patent assess the competitive landscape rights and has initiated the commencement separately for Specialty Pharmaceuticals, by the US International Trade Commission and within Interventional Medicine, the ITC of an investigation in relation to the Interventional Oncology TheraSphere importation of the Anavip product into and Beads and Interventional Vascular the US as a potential competitor to Varithena and EkoSonic businesses.
The ITC will consider whether The sectors in which the Group operates to exclude the importation of Anavip.
Research and development execution Impact: The Group operates in Impact: Failure to implement our research competitive markets.
The products and development strategy could result in on which BTG currently earns revenues, an inability to deliver new products and or from which it anticipates earning new approved indications for existing revenues once on the market, face products, which would have a material competition from other products that detrimental effect on the sustainability of are already approved or in development.
the business and on its mediumto longCompeting products may have superior term growth prospects.
Failure of the efficacy or side effect profiles, cost less programmes could result from lack of to produce or be offered at a lower price organisational resource or capability than BTGs products: such competition deficiencies, from not aligning R&D could materially adversely impact programmes with commercial objectives or Group revenues.
from changes in the regulatory landscape making it more difficult to conduct the There are currently no competitors to the planned R&D programmes or to achieve the Specialty Pharmaceuticals products desired clinical results and approvals.
However, future competition is likely in some cases Mitigation: Capabilities and and competing products could materially organisational capacity enhanced through adversely impact BTGs financial results.
recruitment: monthly monitoring of We believe Instituto Bioclon has performance against goals: monitoring of submitted a Biological Licence regulatory landscape: use of external Application to seek US approval for a resources such as contract clinical potential competitor product Anavip to research organisations CROs are being CroFab.
That product may be launched in more effectively leveraged: active the US.
Within Interventional Medicine, development of R&D and regulatory the Beads products compete with strategies and delivery plans.
However, products from US companies Merit notwithstanding our mitigation activities, Medical and CeloNova: TheraSphere the inherent risks in pharmaceutical and medical device R&D remain material and difficult to mitigate.
32 Change in 2013 14: We have reorganised 7.
Commercial Compliance Given the anticipated continued our research and development function Impact: The pharmaceutical and device geographic expansion of the Group with and processes to ensure full alignment industries are highly regulated and, in direct sales in the EU for TheraSphere with manufacturing and commercial addition to the broad range of regulations and Taiwan for DC Bead the remit for functions.
The acquisitions of relating to the development, approval and the compliance system has increased TheraSphere and EKOS Corporation have manufacturing of its products, the Group accordingly, including with respect to the significantly increased the portfolio of must comply with many regulations Groups anti-bribery and anti-corruption R&D projects and clinical trials to be relating to the marketing of its products.
executed to deliver on the Companys This is true in the US, from which the 8.
Specific plans are being Group derives most of its revenues and capacity implemented to accelerate delivery of where the Group has established its own Impact: Inability to implement growth and those studies, including revising how the direct sales and marketing operations.
delivery plans through inadequate Company works with CROs to support Ensuring compliance with such capabilities, capacity and processes these efforts and increasing the number regulations necessitates allocation of would adversely affect the long-term of sites participating in the relevant significant financial and operating sustainability and growth prospects of the clinical studies.
Failure by BTG or its business.
BTG is subject to intense commercial partners where BTG has a Given the increase in number and competition for key staff with the liability to comply with certain rules, laws complexity of studies and the additional necessary skills and expertise.
Given the and regulations, including the US False focus of the Groups strategy on R&D industry in which the Group operates a Claims Act, Anti-Kickback Statute and investment this risk is assessed to have significant proportion of the Groups staff the US Foreign and Corrupt Practices Act increased in comparison to last year.
among others, for alleged improper conduct, including corrupt payments 6.
Quality & regulatory, process BTGs business and the scope of its to medical professionals, off-label documentation activities have been transformed in recent marketing of products, or the submission Impact: Our quality systems and years through organic growth and of false claims for reimbursement to the regulatory processes and documentation acquisitions.
BTGs growth is being driven Federal government may result in criminal including those relating to Good by numerous factors including new and civil proceedings against the Group.
Manufacturing Practice and Good Clinical product launches and entering new Significant breaches could result in Practice are regularly audited by markets.
In parallel, the external large financial penalties and injunctive regulators such as the US FDA.
Any environment has become more or administrative actions against the inadequacies identified can result in challenging as a result of increased Group which could materially adversely observations, major findings and or regulation, pricing pressures and impact the Groups financial performance warnings, which would need to be competition.
To continue with its growth and prospects or result in the loss of addressed through remedial actions but if plans and be able to meet the external product licences or exclusion from sale not addressed adequately, could lead to challenges, BTG must continue to of certain products.
regulatory action such as cessation of enhance its capabilities through product development, public censure, recruitment of key experienced personnel Mitigation: A Code of Conduct has been product recalls, an inability to release and training and development while established, supported by a mandatory manufactured product, loss of delivering its financial targets.
Robust and extensive manufacturing or product licences or compliance systems are in place to Mitigation: Processes are in place to forced temporary or permanent shutdown ensure sales and marketing and other identify capability and resource gaps, and of facilities and the consequential activities comply with applicable to identify and recruit key personnel to disruption to product supply.
regulations in the US and other territories address those requirements.
Training in which the Group operates.
Internal Mitigation: We have invested in upgrading development and incentive plans are used expertise, procedures, monitoring and our processes, capabilities and people to attract, motivate and retain staff.
training is maintained and provided to capacity to ensure appropriate resources Change in 2013 14: Initiatives introduced seek to manage these risks.
are available to support all required to promote BTG as an employer of choice.
Notwithstanding the significant efforts control measures.
A Global Quality System HR initiatives extended to include new made in this area, given the significant has been established and implementation employees associated with TheraSphere potential fines and other penalties related across the Group is nearing completion.
Continuing enhancement to any compliance failures, the risk rating Change in 2013 14: EKOS and of BTG learning and development remains high, reflecting the Companys TheraSphere were acquired during the and leadership programmes.
continuing vigilance in this area.
year and continuing improvements are Change in 2013 14: Enhanced being made to the applicable quality compliance processes and monitoring systems to bring them into full and auditing programmes have been conformation with the Companys Global established.
EKOS and TheraSphere Quality System as it continues to develop.
marketing and other activities have As establishment of that system is been incorporated into BTGs global nearing completion, overall, the risk is compliance programme.
assessed as having decreased in comparison with the prior year and will continue to be assessed in light of the results of future external audits.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 Strategic report 9.
Non-IP-related litigation Risk management Impact: The manufacturing, clinical Impact: As BTG grows and sells more testing, marketing and sale of BTGs products, particularly in the US, the and principal risks products involve significant potential likelihood of litigation increases.
product liability if our mitigation efforts Defending against litigation brought continued fail.
As the developer, manufacturer and by others, or pursuing litigation against or seller of certain products, BTG may be others, requires substantial financial held liable for death or personal injury to and human resources.
Successful persons receiving the products during litigation against BTG could result in loss development or after the product is of rights, and the ability to commercialise approved.
BTG may be exposed to products, substantial fines and damages, substantial product liability claims that injunctive or administrative remedies could result in fines, damage awards to that could materially impact the Groups injured parties and legal or other material performance and prospects.
The range costs and sanctions.
Adverse events may of types of actions and outcomes is also result in product recalls or broad: including employment claims, suspension or loss of product licences contract disputes, regulatory litigation adversely impacting BTGs revenues.
Mitigation: BTG conducts robust and Mitigation: Control procedures are in well-designed and monitored clinical place to minimise litigation relating to the trial development plans to seek to ensure development, manufacturing and sale of the safety of its products.
BTG operates the Groups products including the legal comprehensive quality systems relating team oversight of contractual to the manufacture of its products and arrangements with third parties.
a pharmacovigilance system to monitor Appropriate use of external advisers and and rapidly respond to safety events dispute avoidance or resolution strategies.
arising with respect to products sold Change in 2013 14: The operations of or used.
BTG maintains product the Group have expanded through the liability insurance but it may not be acquisitions and Varithena approval, commercially viable to adequately though all internal controls have been insure against the occurrence of this applied across the businesses key risk.
Notwithstanding the efforts and portfolios.
made, quality and other systems may fail.
Even in the absence of failure, significant product liability events may occur.
Change in 2013 14: The expanding The strategic report was approved by the operations in the US from organic growth Board on 19 May 2014. and acquisitions of EKOS Corporation and TheraSphere potentially increase By order of the Board liability risks.
Dr Paul Mussenden Company Secretary 34 Governance The Board of Directors and our approach to corporate governance and remuneration.
Governance Board of Directors 36 Corporate governance report 38 Audit Committee report 46 Nomination Committee report 50 Directors remuneration report 51 Directors report 69 Statement of directors responsibilities 71 Independent auditors report 72 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 Governance
