PRINCIPAL RISKS AND MITIGATIONS Managing risk, maintaining performance The Board has ultimate responsibility for the risk strategy of the annual basis and twice in 2014, the Board formally considers its Group and for determining an appropriate risk appetite, as well appetite for risk with particular regard to the Groups strategic as the tolerance levels, within which the Group must operate.
plans, the wider business environment and the current and future By defining these, the Board demonstrates that it is aware of and, condition of the Groups business and operations.
The Group Risk where appropriate, has taken steps to mitigate the impact of risks Appetite is informed and challenged by any experience of that may have a material impact on the Group.
On at least an materialised risk, either within Jupiter or in the broader marketplace.
Investment outperformance Effective distribution Efficient operations Risk Sustained underperformance Failure to retain key staff Regulatory non-compliance Distribution and product Operational error, business Failure of third-party supplier Counterparty failure There is a risk that our clients will We are a people business and A significant regulatory trends continuity incident or fraud The failure of a provider we The failure of a trading or not meet their investment our staff are a significant investigation or action against These risks reflect potential We could suffer from a material rely on for key business depositary counterparty with objectives, due to weak component of successfully the Group could affect our changes in our fee structures, error in executing a key business processing may lead to our which we have a relationship financial markets or poor executing our strategy.
in the terms we can agree with process, a lack of availability of failing to deliver the required could have an adverse impact performance by our fund third-party distributors, or in our key systems or business service to our clients or on our business.
clients appetite for our premises, or a successful fraud shareholders or not fulfilling our products.
against us or our clients.
Potential impact Weak financial markets or poor The departure of a high-profile Regulatory censure and the Our ability to generate fund A significant error, successful Our relationships with key A counterparty failure could performance by our fund fund manager or member of related bad publicity could inflows may be jeopardised by fraud or breach of a client stakeholders may be mean that we lose or cannot managers may lead to our our management team could damage our clients confidence fundamental changes in agreement may result in jeopardised if we provide access material amounts of products being uncompetitive lead to a significant level of in us and affect our ability to distribution patterns or by a additional costs to redress the inadequate service, resulting in Jupiters or our clients funds.
or otherwise unattractive to redemptions from our funds or generate new business.
sustained market appetite for issue.
The unavailability of our the loss of clients, or regulatory new or existing clients, resulting a failure to run our business products we do not offer.
key systems or business or financial censure.
in a decline in Group AUM and effectively, resulting in a material premises could mean we are revenues.
impact on our revenues and or unable to act on behalf of our corporate performance.
Mitigation Controls Jupiter maintains a range of We believe that high levels of We maintain a robust We continually analyse our We have efficient and wellWe subject all third parties who When we evaluate potential flexible investment products employee engagement and compliance culture and all markets, to ensure we maintain controlled processes and provide us with critical services counterparties, the security of that is designed to deliver equity ownership drive business relevant employees are required a diverse product suite that maintain a comprehensive to a high level of ongoing our clients assets is our value to our clients irrespective outperformance.
We also strive to undertake training on appeals to existing and enterprise-wide risk oversight, giving us assurance primary consideration.
We aim of market conditions.
Our to have an attractive working regulatory matters.
management framework, as that they meet the required to diversify our exposures investment process seeks to environment.
Compliance departments described in detail in the standard.
across different institutions and meet investment targets within monitoring programme ensures Governance review.
actively monitor their clearly stated risk parameters.
we adhere to regulatory controls.
creditworthiness using key risk indicators.
We use tools and governance We maintain a competitive Our risk governance structure Our well-defined product We have continuity and business Jupiter has formal guidelines for These indicators include market principles within our investment remuneration structure and use and whistleblowing policy are development process enables resumption planning in place to managing and overseeing all data and credit agency ratings.
risk framework and review deferred remuneration and designed to ensure that we us to deliver new products or support all of our key activities.
third party relationships, We place deposits according performance that lies outside share-based payments to align escalate any regulatory issues enhancements, so we can We support remote working, ensuring that they receive a to agreed limits, which we expectations.
We monitor fund our employees long-term to senior management in an target client groups in a timely including core system access for level of scrutiny that reflects amend when necessary.
Our performance as part of our interests with the Groups.
We open and timely way, ensuring and efficient way.
all our key staff if they cannot their potential risk to our counterparties are subject to investment performance risk also develop, monitor and the maximum appropriate travel to our offices.
the Basel capital rules, which management process.
This is maintain succession plans for amount of regulatory normal business systems or means that obtaining formally overseen by our all key roles.
premises become unavailable, satisfactory diversification Portfolio Review Committee, we have alternative premises, remains a challenge for us and which meets quarterly.
including a dedicated office suite for the industry as whole.
We equipped with all of our key continue to look for an business systems.
optimum solution to this issue.
2014 impact As described in the Operational 2014 saw the benefits of a In 2014, we focused on In 2014, we continued to ensure In 2014, we consolidated our risk We have continued to work on In 2014 we implemented a new Review, Jupiter has seen 51 per number of changes we made developing Jupiters conduct that our products remain optimal functions under a new Head of implementing our supplier oversight process for our cent.
of mutual fund AUM to fund management risk framework.
In addition, the for our markets and launched a Risk, to give us a holistic management policy during corporate cash, implementing achieving above median returns responsibilities in 2013, when sale of our private client number of new share classes for perspective of risks across the 2014, working closely with our controls over third party over the key three-year two of our senior fund contracts means that a number our funds, to ensure they remain Group.
During 2014, no items key third parties to ensure deposits.
These of regulatory requirements suitable for our local markets.
individually or collectively ongoing quality of service, changes included promoting relating to discretionary We also recruited new heads of breached the Boards risk along with resilience planning several fund managers and management of client assets strategy into areas where we felt appetite.
in the event of provider failure.
there were gaps in our product 14 range.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Investment outperformance Effective distribution Efficient operations Risk Sustained underperformance Failure to retain key staff Regulatory non-compliance Distribution and product Operational error, business Failure of third-party supplier Counterparty failure There is a risk that our clients will We are a people business and A significant regulatory trends continuity incident or fraud The failure of a provider we The failure of a trading or not meet their investment our staff are a significant investigation or action against These risks reflect potential We could suffer from a material rely on for key business depositary counterparty with objectives, due to weak component of successfully the Group could affect our changes in our fee structures, error in executing a key business processing may lead to our which we have a relationship financial markets or poor executing our strategy.
there were gaps in our product 15 range.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
