PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Bunzl has an extensive risk management framework designed to identify and assess the likelihood and consequences of risks and to manage the actions necessary to mitigate their impact to acceptable levels.
It also identifies the assurance activities relating to the relevant mitigating actions.
Using this framework, every business documents their key risks RISK OVERVIEW The effective identification, management and mitigation of risks and in a consistent reporting format which specifically identifies the mitigating activities, relevant controls and related assurance uncertainties across the Group are an integral part of delivering the Groups strategic objectives.
The Risk management and internal activities for each significant risk.
Management then consolidates the risk information at both a business area and Group level control section of the Corporate governance report on pages 46 and 47 includes further information on the specific procedures designed using the same reporting format, culminating in the Group risk assessment.
The Executive Committee then reviews the Group risk to identify, manage and mitigate business risk which could have a material impact on the Groups business, financial condition or assessment, the relevant controls and other steps taken to mitigate the risks identified and the assurance procedures in place over results of operations.
such controls with a view to determining any further actions required in order to reduce the levels of risk to acceptable levels.
The risk The Companys risk management framework provides a consistent methodology by which every business and business area, the assessment is then submitted for review and approval by the Board.
Executive Committee and ultimately the Board assess the risks that the Group faces against a defined set of probability and impact THE RISK PROFILE The Group operates in many business environments and across a criteria.
In assessing impact, the following criteria are considered: business continuity: health, safety and the environment: regulatory: number of geographies in which risks and uncertainties exist, not all of which are necessarily within the Companys control.
The risks reputational: and financial.
The probability and impact of each risk is assessed on two bases.
The first, defined as Gross Risk, is the identified in the 2013 Annual Report remain those of most concern to the business at the end of 2014.
The principal risks and uncertainties probability and impact of a risk if none of the mitigating actions or internal controls designed to reduce either the probability or the faced by the Group and the steps taken to mitigate such risks and uncertainties are detailed below.
This summary is not intended to impact of a risk occurring were in place.
The second, defined as Net Risk, is the residual probability and impact of a risk assuming be exhaustive and is not presented in order of potential probability or impact.
that the mitigating actions and internal controls operated as intended in an effective way.
Market risks Mitigating factors Competitive pressures The Group operates in highly competitive markets and faces The Group seeks to remain competitive by maintaining high service competition from international companies as well as national, regional levels and close contacts with its customers to ensure that their needs and local companies in the countries in which it operates.
Increased and demands are being met satisfactorily, developing a national competition and unanticipated actions by competitors or customers presence in the markets in which the Group operates and maintaining could lead to an adverse effect on results and hinder the Groups growth strong relationships with a variety of different suppliers thereby potential.
This could result from: customer pressure on sales volumes enabling the Group to offer a broad range of products to its customers, or margins: the loss of customers due to service or pricing issues: including own brand products.
The Group also regularly reviews the increased price competition: customers and suppliers dealing directly competitive environment in which it operates.
with one another: or unforeseen changes in the competitive landscape due to the introduction of disruptive technologies or changes in routes to market.
Product price changes The purchase price of products distributed by the Group can fluctuate The Group endeavours, whenever possible, to pass on price increases from time to time, thereby potentially affecting the results of operations.
from its suppliers to its customers and to source its products from There could be significant increases in the cost of specific products a number of different suppliers so that it is not dependent on any leading to a diminution in margins if cost increases cannot be passed one source of supply for any particular product.
Increased focus on in full to customers or substitute products sourced from elsewhere.
on the Groups own import programmes and brands, together with Potential causes could include changes in the input costs of products the reinforcement of the Groups service and product offering to purchased through commodity price inflation.
In addition, a period of customers, helps to minimise the impact of price deflation.
The commodity price deflation may lead to reductions in the price and value Group also mitigates against the risk of holding overvalued inventory of the Groups products where sales prices are indexed or if competitors in a deflationary environment by managing stock levels efficiently reduced their selling prices.
If this was to occur, the Groups revenue and ensuring they are kept to a minimum.
and, as a result, its profits, could be reduced and the value of inventory The Group uses its considerable experience in sourcing and selling held in stock may not be fully recoverable.
products to manage prices during periods of both inflation and deflation in order to minimise the impact on operating margins.
Economic environment The Groups business is partially dependent on general economic The Groups operations and its customer base are diverse, with a conditions in the US, the UK, France and other important markets.
variable and flexible cost base, and many of the sectors in which it A significant deterioration in these conditions could have an adverse competes are traditionally, by their nature, relatively resilient to effect on the Groups business and results of operations.
34 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Financial risks Mitigating factors Foreign exchange The majority of the Groups sales are made and income is earned in US The Group believes that the benefits of its geographical spread outweigh dollars, euros and other foreign currencies.
The Group does not hedge the associated risks.
the impact of exchange rate movements arising on translation of The majority of the Groups transactions are carried out in the functional earnings into sterling at average exchange rates.
currency of the Groups operations.
As a result, transaction exposures As a result, movements in exchange rates may have a material are usually limited and exchange rate fluctuations have minimal effect translation impact on the Groups reported results.
on the quality of earnings unless there is a sudden and significant adverse movement of a foreign currency in which products are The Group is also subject to transaction exposures where products are purchased which may lead to a delay in passing on to customers purchased in one currency and sold in another.
As a result movements the resulting price increases.
The Group undertakes some forward in exchange rates may adversely impact both operating margins and purchasing of foreign currencies for identified exposures to reduce the value of the Groups net assets.
the impact of short term volatility.
The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates and related hedging activity is regularly monitored by senior management.
The Groups approach to managing foreign exchange risk is reviewed annually by the Board.
Financial liquidity and debt covenants The Group needs continuous access to funding in order to meet its The Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources trading obligations, to support investment in organic growth, to make and continually monitors net debt and forecast cash flows to ensure acquisitions when appropriate opportunities arise, and to pay dividends that it will be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due and to shareholders.
There is a risk that the Group may be unable to obtain that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Groups requirements the necessary funds when required or that such funds will only be in the short, medium and long term.
Compliance with the Groups biannual debt covenants is monitored on a The Groups borrowing facilities include a requirement to comply monthly basis based on the management accounts.
Sensitivity analyses with certain specified covenants in relation to the level of net debt using various scenarios are applied to forecasts to assess their impact and interest cover.
A breach of these covenants could result from on covenants.
a significant and rapid deterioration in the businesss performance, foreign exchange rate fluctuations or the failure to manage working capital levels.
Ultimately this could result in a significant proportion of the Groups borrowings becoming repayable immediately.
Operational risks Mitigating factors Acquisitions A significant portion of the Groups historical growth has been achieved The Groups acquisition strategy is to focus on those businesses which through the acquisition of businesses and the Groups growth strategy operate in sectors where it has or can develop competitive advantage includes additional acquisitions.
Although the Group operates in a and which have good growth opportunities.
The Group continually number of fragmented markets which provide future acquisition reviews acquisition targets and has established processes and opportunities, there can be no assurance that the Group will be able procedures with regard to detailed pre-acquisition due diligence to make acquisitions in the future.
There is also a risk that not all of and post-acquisition integration.
the acquisitions made will be successful due to the loss of key people The Group endeavours to maximise the performance of an acquisition or customers after the acquisition, deterioration in the economic through the recruitment and retention of high quality and appropriately environment of the acquired business or the failure to perform incentivised management combined with effective strategic planning, adequate pre-acquisition due diligence or appropriately manage investment in resources and infrastructure and regular reviews of the post-acquisition integration of the business.
performance by both business area and Group management.
In the longer term, if an acquisition consistently underperforms compared to its original investment case, there is a risk that this will lead to a permanent impairment in the carrying value of the intangible assets attributed to that acquisition.
Business continuity The Group would be adversely affected if any of its major distribution The Group seeks to reduce the impact of destruction of, or damage to, facilities was destroyed or damaged or there was a significant failure facilities through the use of multi-site facilities with products stocked of its information systems resulting from either hardware failure or in more than one location.
The impact of information systems failure a cybersecurity breach.
is mitigated through regular renewal of hardware, layered security measures and disaster recovery plans which are periodically tested and which would be implemented in the event of any such failure.
Laws and regulations The international nature of the Groups operations exposes it to Although the Group does not operate in particularly litigious market potential claims as the Group is subject to a broad range of laws sectors, it has in place processes to report, manage and mitigate and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
against third party litigation using external advisers where necessary.
In addition the Group faces potential claims from customers in relation The use of reputable suppliers and internal quality assurance to the supply of defective products or breaches of their contractual and quality control procedures reduce the risks associated with arrangements.
The sourcing of products from lower cost countries defective products.
increases the risk of the Group being unable to recover any potential losses relating thereto from the relevant supplier.
The Financial review on pages 30 to 33 and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements include information relating to the Groups risk management policies so far as they relate to financial instruments.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 35 COMMITTED TO SUSTAINABLE SUCCESS HEALTH AND SAFETY SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS COMMUNITY SUPPORT 36 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
