Principal risks and uncertainties Through a strong risk culture, we have confidence in achieving our aspirations of competitive advantage from better business decisions.
Risk management Purpose Bottom-up reporting Future developments The purpose of risk management is to Management provide quarterly risk reports The requirement under Solvency II to develop make better informed business decisions to the risk team to provide assurances that Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA that generate value for shareholders while risks within the business are comprehensively has been a catalyst for us to integrate delivering appropriate outcomes for our identified and that mitigation plans are in risk reporting and further align our risk policyholders and providing confidence to place and progressing.
The risk team, led by management processes with our business other stakeholders.
Our risk management the Chief Risk Officer CRO, challenges processes.
We have an ambition to integrate processes are designed and implemented so management in its effectiveness of the all risk reporting to the Board within the that our knowledge and understanding of application of the risk framework and the ORSA processes.
We have already produced risk underpins every important decision that design and operation of mitigation activities.
three ORSA documents for management, we make.
The CRO reports independently to the Group each ahead of the strategic review to inform Risk and Compliance Committee GRCC, strategic decision taking.
In 2014 we also Risk framework alerting the Committee to principal risks, risk produced an interim ORSA after the business We identify and manage risk within a themes across the business and to progress planning process in July which showed the risk management framework which we on mitigating actions.
effect of the business plan on the projected evolve and improve in light of the changing capital and risk profile of the business.
In the risk environment and best practice.
The Bottom-up reporting is supplemented run-up to the implementation of SolvencyII framework, which is owned by the Board, withfinancial risk modelling, which is used in 2016 we will subsume all of our regular describes all aspects of the Groups approach tomonitor how much of each risk type risk reporting into ORSA updates in order to risk management including the provisions we have chosen to accept against our risk to provide the Board with four documents for risk governance, the amount of each type appetite.
Financial risk modelling is aligned a year that will keep it appraised of all of of risk we are willing to take risk appetite, to our economic and regulatory capital the relevant risk information that it needs to our policies for management of various requirements to allow management and the support the exercise of its duties, fulfil all of risk categories and risk reporting.
This risk Board to understand how capital is being the current regular risk reporting and satisfy management framework is embedded within consumed by our principal risks.
By applying its regulatory requirements.
the business in order to create a culture of stress and scenario testing to financial risk confident risk taking.
modelling we gain additional insight into the way that risk might impact the Group Top-down evaluation in different circumstances, and to inform We identify risks by evaluating the mitigating actions.
environment within which we have chosen tooperate.
This top-down analysis of the risks is supplemented with the use of scenario analysis and simulations.
We consider these risks against our risk appetite and decide whether to accept the risks, manage the risks within our risk appetite or change our plans in order to avoid the risks.
28 Just Retirement Group plc Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Principal risks and uncertainties Risks to our business The Group had previously considered In addition to these political, regulatory As an insurance group, understanding and the risks around pension reform and had and social uncertainties, we continue to be taking risk is what Just Retirement does.
The adopted what was thought at the time to exposed to many other current and emerging risks to which the Group is currently devoting be appropriate mitigating activity, through risks that are inherent in the provision of much of its attention have changed since engagement with government officials, the Groups retirement solutions.
The most our last report, due to the announcements policy makers, consumer groups and industry significant of these are described below.
The assumption underpinning this now apparent that may have a considerable mitigation approach was that major changes influence on our future aspirations: to pension legislation would have cross-party Uncertainty about the final form of pension consensus, be evidence based and subject to reform legislation: a significant period of consultation.
The scope of the Governments Guaranteed Guidance and the take-up rates by those invited to use the service: and The possible changes in behaviour of customers, competitors and intermediaries as a result.
Risk description & impact Mitigation & management action Risks from our chosen market and competitive environment Risk outlook Increasing risk Just Retirement operates in a highly regulated market, which The Groups approach to legislative and regulatory change has been means that changes in relevant legislation and regulation may have focused on active participation and engagement with policy makers a considerable effect on our strategy and day-to-day operations, and regulatory bodies in the UK and Europe, and this will not change.
reducing our sales, profitability or requiring us to hold more capital.
Following the 2014 Budget, the annuity market has been The changes announced in the 2014 Budget have had a fundamental fundamentally altered.
In response to the crystallisation of this risk, the impact on the expected shape and future of the annuity and Group has responded through the acceleration of its strategy revision retirement income markets.
Uncertainties arise from: and innovation pipeline.
The final form of pension reform legislation: How Guaranteed Guidance is implemented: The focus for the next financial year will be to adapt our market The impact of Guaranteed Guidance in motivating people to shop offering to respond to the final shape of the new pension legislation, around the external market: the form of the Governments Guaranteed Guidance and how The take-up of Guaranteed Guidance, how it is received and acted customers, competitors and intermediaries might react.
on by customers: How financial intermediaries and other distributors respond to the These changes may place our strategy and business plans at risk should pension reforms and developing propositions of manufacturers: and our assumptions and developments not flex and adjust to market How the Groups competitors respond to the pension reforms and dynamics.
The Group believes it is well placed to adjust and adapt to their developing propositions.
the changes in the retirement income market, supported by the brand promise, our innovation credentials, financial strength and commitment The Groups strategy and business plans are highly sensitive to changes in to operating responsibly.
the assumptions we make about these market factors and uncertainties.
The selection of strategy and the development of business plans are chosen after careful appraisal of the inherent risks in the plan, the capabilities required and the evaluation of the variability in expected returns for taking these risks.
The most influential factors on the successful delivery of the Groups plans are closely monitored through key risk and performance indicators to help inform where preventative or remedial actions are needed.
The factors include market forecasts and market share, supported by insights into customer and competitor behaviour.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 29 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk description & impact Mitigation & management action Risks from legislative and regulatory changes Risk outlook Increasing risk Over the last few years, the financial services industry has witnessed The regulatory agenda for the forthcoming year is again full and covers an increase in regulatory activity, regulatory change and more intense many areas directly relevant to the Group.
A move towards judgement-based regulation has also been witnessed, resulting in more proactive and punitive Internally we continue to monitor these developments, assess their enforcement activity.
This approach undoubtedly increases the potential impacts and engage fully with all relevant regulatory bodies, regulatory risk to which the Group is exposed.
in line with the regulatory strategy, to adjust to, and implement regulatory change efficiently and effectively, with the overall aim The FCA Risk Outlook, published in March 2014, identified numerous of delivering a better outcome for our customers and competitive areas of focus across the financial services industry including, inter alia, advantage for the business.
a market study of retirement income, sales practices for customers at retirement, interest-only mortgage maturities, sales incentive It is recognised that adapting to these legislative and regulatory arrangements, complaints handling, governance and risk management changes will involve a high degree of strategy execution risk associated processes.
The FCA market review of annuities will also continue with the scale and pace of change.
throughout the year, with interim findings due to be published at the end of 2014.
While detailed aspects of the framework still need to be finalised, good progress has been made with SolvencyII developments and the Group Uncertainty surrounding the implementation date of Solvency II is well placed in its application to use its internal model to calculate its was removed in November 2013 and the new European prudential solvency capital requirement and transition to the SolvencyII regulatory regulatory framework will come into force on 1 January 2016.
A number of uncertainties still remain, mitigated through the high-level requirements of Solvency II are understood, some of the contingencies within the plans to enable adaptation and adjustments lower-level detail is yet to be finalised.
The application for approval to to be made, as the final rules become clearer.
calculate capital using an internal model will begin formally in April 2015 and a successful outcome is not guaranteed.
It is possible that the final rules, or the outcome of the approval for internal model may give rise to greater required capital.
Furthermore, implementation of Solvency II may require changes to the structure and or business of theGroup.
30 Just Retirement Group plc Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Risk description & impact Mitigation & management action Risks from our pricing assumptions Risk outlook No change The writing of long-term insurance contracts requires a range of To manage this risk, the Group has developed its own proprietary TM assumptions to be made, including customers longevity, interest underwriting system, PrognoSys, which provides insights and rates, expenses etc.
enhanced understanding of the longevity risks that the Group choosesto take.
The Group is exposed to the risk that its views on these risk factors may be materially inaccurate which may require them to be The actual longevity experience, against what was expected, is recalibrated, which in turn may affect profitability and the Groups monitored to identify any areas where expectations are materially solvency position.
different, and this analysis is an input into the regular review of the reserving basis for liabilities.
No changes have been made to IUA longevity assumptions and reserves during the year.
The more sophisticated IUA experience analysis system has been used to analyse LTM longevity.
This resulted in a modest strengthening of LTM mortality assumptions.
Some longevity risk exposure is shared with the Groups reassurance partners, and in taking a share of this risk, the reassurers examine the Groups approach to risk selection, reserving and monitoring activities.
Having reassurance arrangements mean that the Group is exposed to counterparty risk, should the reassurer fail to meet its claim repayment obligations.
This risk is reduced by the reassurer depositing the reassurance premiums back to the Group.
The assumptions made about future investment returns, credit risks and administration expenses are based on market data and historical experience, are calculated using standard actuarial principles and methods, and are subjected to validation and testing before being considered and approved by our external actuarial function holder and the Board.
The monitoring of actual experience against assumptions has not identified any material variances and no adjustments to reserves have been required.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 31 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk description & impact Mitigation & management action Risks from the economic environment Risk outlook No change The economic environment and financial market conditions have a Economic conditions are actively monitored and alternative scenarios significant influence on the level of income, the value of assets and modelled to help better understand the potential impacts of significant thevalue of liabilities.
economic changes and to management action plans.
Volatility of financial market conditions was noted as a key risk in 2013, One of the principles of the Groups investment strategy is that the and whilst the overall economic outlook has improved, with the UK investment portfolio comprises high quality, low risk assets.
Credit risk economy strengthening, the low interest rate environment persists.
on the portfolio is managed through the appointment of specialist Market expectations are for a gradual increase in rates over the next fund managers, who execute a diversified investment strategy, few years.
investing in investment grade assets and adhering to individual counterparty limits.
The Group believes there to be limited resilience within global economies to sudden changes in monetary policies and unrest To mitigate the impact of the low interest rate environment, in addition in peripheral and Eastern European countries may unsettle the to the active management of the asset and liability matching position, Eurozone.
The Eurozone economy stuttered in June 2014 as the pace actions have been taken to improve returns through diversifying of expansion across the private sector slowed, affecting investor the investment strategy by the types of assets into which the Group confidence.
The Eurozone economic recovery is fragile and any reversal invests, their geographies and industry sectors.
may have consequences for the UK economy.
This diversification has brought with it exposure to foreign exchange The premiums paid by the Groups customers are invested to risk.
As this exposure is not desired, derivative contracts are entered enable future payments to be made.
The returns received on these into to eliminate the foreign exchange exposure as far as possible.
investments are uncertain as a result of credit risk default and spread Interest rate swap and swaptions are also used to reduce exposures risk and market risks fluctuations in interest rates, asset values, to interest rate volatility.
This then brings credit exposure to various property prices, foreign exchange.
counterparties through which we transact these instruments, althoughthis is mitigated by collateral arrangements.
A fall in residential property values could reduce the amounts received from lifetime mortgage redemptions and may affect the relative The Groups exposure to inflation risk increases in line with increases attractiveness of the LTM product as a means of accessing retirement in volumes of defined benefit business.
Most defined benefit schemes income and significant increases in property values may result in link member benefits to either inflation indexation and or limited price increasing numbers of early mortgage redemptions.
As the Groups exposure increases, its use of inflation hedging mechanisms will also increase.
In relation to property risk, the Group underwrites the properties against which it is prepared to lend, obtaining a valuation from a qualified third party.
This provides initial comfort concerning the quality of the property book.
The terms of the LTM business limit theinitial loan to value LTV available under its mortgage advance, substantially limiting exposure to property risk.
The combination of product design features, underwriting and monitoring of exposure toadverse house price movements control the Groups property risk.
Market risks may also affect the liquidity position of the Group by, Liquidity risk is managed by ensuring that assets of a suitable maturity for example, having to realise assets to meet liabilities during stressed and marketability are held to meet liabilities as they fall due.
market conditions, maintaining and servicing collateral requirements arising from the changes in market value of financial derivatives, etc.
There is little short-term volatility in the Groups cash flows, which can be reliably estimated in terms of timing and amount.
Cash flow forecasts are regularly prepared to predict and monitor liquidity levels over both the short, medium and long terms and stress tests are performed to help us understand where potential pinch points mayarise.
Following the listing of the Group in November 2013, liquidity has been strengthened.
A high level of cash and liquid assets is maintained so should business cash inflows dramatically reduce, the Group remains able to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The Groups liquidity requirements have been comfortably met over the year and stress testing and forecasting confirms the continuation of this position for both investment and business operations, given thecurrent financial and commercial market environments.
32 Just Retirement Group plc Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Risk description & impact Mitigation & management action Risks to our Just name Risk outlook No change The Groups vision is to be the leading retirement brand known The Group has no appetite for brand and reputational damage and andtrusted for enriching our customers lives.
Damage to our brand actively protects its brand and seeks to differentiate its business from and or reputation may adversely affect our underlying profitability, competitors by investing in the Just Retirement brand.
through reducing sales volumes, limitation of distribution channels andincreasing capital requirements.
Risk to the brand and Just Retirements reputation is mitigated by actively engaging with government officials and policy makers in The brand image and our reputation could be threatened by external order to ensure the retirement needs of customers are understood risks such as: and policies created that enable customers to be served appropriately.
Regulatory interpretation or enforcement action, either directly There may be limited opportunity to influence regulatory change, so or asa result of contagion from association with other financial we base our strategy and plans on prevailing regulation and planned services organisations: and regulatory developments and have contingencies should regulatory Cyber-crime targeting.
Large organisations are increasingly developments be different to our expectations.
becoming targets for cyber-crime, particularly if those organisations retain personal information about many people, and migrate Due diligence is performed on all partners to ensure that they work some of their operations onto digital platforms.
Just Retirement to the same high security standards that the Group employs and we is no exception and a cyber-event could result in financial losses, remain vigilant to the range of cyber-risks but also recognise the speed butmore importantly, distress for our customers.
of cyber-threats, meaning that risk exposure remains.
Given the potential impact of these risks, we apply our risk management process to help us identify, understand, manage and control these risks, to a level that we are comfortable with, and then we monitor exposure continuously.
Our risk framework Business management & internal controls Identify Manage Own Risk function Develop Advice and support Challenge Internal audit Independent Objective Assurance Annual Report & Accounts 2014 33
