Strategic Report Performance PRINCIPAL RISKs Effective management of risk is essential to the execution of the Groups strategic themes, the achievement of sustainable shareholder value, the protection of the brand and ensuring good governance.
The Board has overall responsibility for determining the The key steps the Group takes to address these principal nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take risks are described in the table under Mitigation.
It is not in achieving its strategic objectives its risk appetite, and possible for the Group to implement controls to respond for ensuring that risks are managed effectively.
The Board to all the risks it may face, and the steps the Group has has delegated to the Audit Committee the responsibility taken to address certain risks including those listed for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems maynot manage these risks effectively.
ofinternal control and risk management methodology.
The principal risks are not listed in order of significance As part of this review, the Audit Committee considers and each of the risks should beconsidered independently.
theprincipal risks facing the Group and the nature and If more than one of the eventscontemplated by the risks extent of these risks.
The Groups Internal Audit and Risk setout occur, it ispossible that the combined overall Assurance function facilitates a risk assessment process impact of such events may be compounded.
in each key business area and global support function to review the significant risks facing its operations and to Since the last annual report, the Groups assessment of record the relevant controls and actions in place to mitigate itsprincipal risks has incorporated the following matters.
The detailed assessments are then consolidated The Group has been directly operating its Beauty to provide input into the overall Group risk assessment.
See business since 1 April 2013 and this business has been the Corporate Governance Report for further details of the fully integrated into the Group.
Consequently the risks Groups risk management processes and internal controls.
associated with the integration of the Beauty business set out in the last annual report no longer apply.
The Board and the executive management team use a combination of different and complementary skills to The Groups revenues are increasingly dependent assess the risks facing the business.
In determining its onconsumers from the Asia region with a significant riskappetite the Board considers a variety of information proportion of the Groups sales to Asian consumers when reviewing the Group operations and in approving key globally.
Consequently this risk has been included matters reserved for its decision.
This information includes: asaprincipal risk.
updates provided by senior management on key The Group operates on a global basis and earns strategicand operational matters: revenues, incurs costs and makes investments in a number of currencies.
The volatility in exchange rates discussion and approval by the Board of the Groups could have a significant impact ontheGroups reported three-year Strategic plan and budget: results.
Consequently this risk has beenincluded as a information provided for the purposes of deciding principal risk.
whether to approve those significant matters which havebeen reserved for the Board: and Group risk assessments facilitated by the Groups The Groups Strategic Report from pages 5 to 63 has been Internal Audit and Risk Assurance Function and approved by the Board please see the statement of thereports of the external auditors.
The risks set out in the table on the following pages Catherine Sukmonowski represent the principal risks and uncertainties which Company Secretary mayadversely impact the performance of the Group and 20 May 2014 the execution of its key Strategic Themes.
The Strategic Themes are set out on pages 32 to 41.
Other factors could also adversely affect Group performance and so the risks set out should not be considered to be a complete set of allpotential risks and uncertainties.
61 Strategic Report Performance Risk Business & Strategic Theme impact Mitigation The Groups operations depend A failure in these systems or a denial of service A number of controls to maintain the integrity and on IT systems and operational could have a significant impact on the Groups efficiency of the Groups IT systems are in place, including infrastructure in order to operations and reputation, and potentially recovery plans which would be implemented in the event tradeefficiently.
Increasingly resultinthe loss of sensitive information.
The IT disaster recovery plans are tested technology is also being used on a regular basis.
IT security is continually reviewed and Leverage the franchise tostream major events and updated and third-party IT security specialists areused Accelerate retail-led growth tocommunicate through toregularly test these controls.
Invest in under-penetrated markets socialmedia.
Pursue operational excellence Sustained economic slowdown.
The Groups performance remains strong: The global reach of the Group helps to mitigate local however, the sustained economic slowdown economic risks.
In addition, the Groups financial reporting has or could: i reduced consumer wealth and review processes are designed to highlight any leading to a reduction in demand: ii impacted change in ongoing sales performance.
Counterparty the financial stability of suppliers and their credit checks are in place for all key customers and ability to secure finance which could disrupt suppliers, and flexible payment terms are used to assist theGroups supply chain or lead to an increase suppliers as required.
Group Treasury monitors the credit in bad debts: and iii impacted the financial ratings of financial institutions which hold Group deposits stability and recovery of banks and other to enable the Group to take appropriate action should financial institutions, all of which could there be a downgrade in their creditratings.
adversely impact sales and profitability.
Accelerate retail-led growth Invest in under-penetrated markets The Groups revenues are A significant proportion of the Groups The global reach of the Group helps to mitigate reliance increasingly dependent salesare to Asian consumers globally.
In addition, the Group onconsumers from the Consequently any change to consumer tastes continues to focus on engaging with the Chinese luxury Asiaregion.
or the economic, regulatory, social and or consumer, both in China and while travelling abroad, political environment in Asia could adversely including: by optimising product assortments and impact Asian consumers disposable income, merchandising: and investing indigital and in-store confidence and travel which could impact services such as Mandarin-speaking sales associates theGroups revenue and profits.
across top tourist destinations outside China.
The Group is preparing plans for the transition of its global business Leverage the franchise in Japan following the expiration of its licence with Sanyo Accelerate retail-led growth Shokai and Mitsui&Company.
Invest in under-penetrated markets Volatility in foreign exchange The Group operates on a global basis and earns The Group seeks to hedge anticipated significant external rates could have a significant revenues, incurs costs and makes investments transactional cash flows using financial instruments.
impact on the Groups in a number of currencies.
The Groups financial TheGroup monitors the desirability of hedging the net reportedresults.
results are reported in Sterling.
The majority of assets of non-sterling subsidiaries when translated into reported revenues are earned in non-sterling sterling for reporting purposes, but the Group has not currencies, with a significant proportion of costs entered into any transactions for this purpose in the in Sterling.
Therefore the Sterling value of current or previous year.
reported revenues, profits and cash flows may be reduced as a result of currency exchange rate movements.
All strategic themes Major incidents such as natural A major incident at a key location could Business continuity plans are in place to mitigate catastrophes, global pandemics significantly impact business operations, operational risks, but cannot ensure the uninterrupted or terrorist attacks affecting with the impact clearly varying depending operation of the business, particularly in the short-term.
one or more of the Groups key on the location and its nature.
The impact The regional spread of the Groups key distribution hubs locations could significantly of the loss of a distribution hub would also helps to mitigate risk.
There is a Group incident impact its operations.
clearly differ from a global pandemic, management framework in place that addresses the butbothwould impact revenue and profits.
reporting and management of major incidents, and this is tested each year using third-party specialists in this field.
All strategic themes Tailored plans have also been produced during the year for a number of high impact events.
Failure by the Group or A failure to act appropriately could result A number of initiatives are in place, led by the Corporate associated third parties to in penalties, adverse press coverage and Responsibility function.
These include the continuing actinaccordance with ethical reputational damage with a resulting drop activities set out in the Great Brand, Great andenvironmental standards.
Leverage the franchise 62 Strategic Report Performance Risk Business & Strategic Theme impact Mitigation The Groups operations Failure to comply with these requirements The Group continually monitors and seeks to improve its including now its Beauty couldleave the Group open to civil and or processes to gain assurance that its licensees, suppliers, division are subject to a criminal legal challenge, significant penalties franchisees, distributors and agents comply with the broadspectrum of regulatory andreputational damage.
Groups contractual terms and conditions, its ethical requirements inthe various andbusiness policies and relevant legislation.
Specialist All strategic themes jurisdictions in which the teams at corporate and regional level, supported by Groupoperates.
The pace of third-party specialists where required, areresponsible for change and the consistency ensuring employees are aware of regulations relevant to ofapplication of legislation their roles.
A number of these teams were strengthened canvary significantly across during the year.
Assurance processes are in place to these jurisdictions, particularly monitor compliance, with resultsbeing reported to the in anenvironment where public Group Risk Committee andBoard Audit Committee.
sector debt is often high and taxrevenues arefalling.
The Group relies on a small number of vendors The Group continues to strengthen its supply chain in key product categories, and for specialist management function to enable it to evolve and develop digital and IT services.
Failure of one of these its manufacturing base to reduce dependence on key businesses to deliver products or services would vendors.
The Group has continued to strengthen its have a significant impact on business operations.
internal digital and IT teams and continues to facilitate knowledge transfer to internal resources.
Annual Leverage the franchise financialchecks are carried out on all key vendors.
Intensify accessories Loss of key management or The loss of key individuals or the inability to Competitive incentive arrangements currently exist, theinability toattract and recruit and retain individuals with the relevant withspecific initiatives in place designed to retain key retain key employees.
talent and experience would disrupt the individuals.
Recent regulatory changes may make it operation of the business and adversely impact more difficult to remain competitive in the global market the Groups ability to deliver its strategies.
Recruitment is ongoing and talent review and succession planning programmes are All strategic themes inplace and have been updated during the year.
A substantial proportion of The licence with Sanyo Shokai and Mitsui & The Group is planning for the transition of its business Group profits is reliant upon Company in Japan the Sanyo Licence expires inJapan following the expiration of the Sanyo Licence.
itslicensed business in Japan in 2015, whereupon the royalty income under To minimise risks in Japan the Group has its own andother key licensed product the licence will cease.
There are minimum royalty payments categories.
The Group expects licensees to maintain specified in its licence agreements, including the Sanyo operational and financial control over their Licence.
Under its licence agreements, the Group can businesses.
Should licensees fail to manage control product development, marketing and distribution.
their operations effectively or be affected by Regular licensee royalty reviews take place to monitor a major incident, the royalty income may compliance with licence terms, which canmanage but decline, directly impacting Group profits.
Leverage the franchise The significant growth and pace Failure to effectively manage the pace of Governance processes are in place for each major of change within the business changewill inevitably adversely impact the strategic initiative and these are supplemented by regular puts pressure on both internal Groups operations and return on investment.
meetings with senior management to review operational and external resources.
Management and operational structures All strategic themes arecontinually reviewed to ensure that these support theGroups growth.
The Group operates in a number Seizure of assets or staff.
Related party The Group uses the services of professional consultants of emerging markets which are business practice that is inconsistent with to advise on legal and regulatory issues when entering typically more volatile than theGroups ethical standards and the UK new markets, to undertake due diligence and to monitor developed markets, and are regulatory environment.
The Group works with franchisees subject to changing economic, costs due to country specific processes driven or partners who compensate for its relative lack of regulatory, social and political by the regulatory environment.
experience in a number of these markets.
developments that are beyond Leverage the franchise the Groups control.
Accelerate retail-led growth Infrastructure and services Invest in under-penetrated markets alsotend to be less developed.
Unauthorised use of the Trademarks and other intellectual property The Groups global Brand Protection team has Groups trademarks and IP rights are fundamentally important to the continuedto expand during the year to enable the Group otherproprietary rights.
Groups reputation, success and competitive to strengthen its brand protection efforts in a number of position.
Unauthorised use of these, as well high risk markets, including in the digital environment.
asthe distribution of counterfeit products, Given the Groups emphasis on digital innovation the damages the Burberry brand image and profits.
team places a particular focus on this area.
Where infringements are identified these are addressed through Leverage the franchise a mixture of criminal and civil legal action and negotiated Intensify accessories settlement.
IP rights are driven largely by national laws Accelerate retail-led growth which afford varying degrees of protection and Invest in under-penetrated markets enforcement priorities depending on the country.
Consequently, the Group cannot necessarily be as effective in all jurisdictions inaddressing IP issues.
