| 48 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT Group chief risk officer Q&A associated with the activities for which they are responsible, and make decisions in the light of the impact on the entire group.
Q And what does the economic capital that you hold reflect?
A Our economic capital is our assessment of the capital that we need to hold above our liabilities in order to meet the groups strategic objectives and to ensure continued solvency.
Put simply, it reflects the additional funds we consider necessary to meet future claims on our business, should for example our assumptions regarding life expectancy or investment returns prove to be incorrect.
Our risk based capital model is used to calculate our economic capital requirement taking into account our Simon Gadd was Operational risks in respect of material risk exposures and how those our business processes and IT risks interact across a wide range of appointed group chief systems, as well as broader scenarios.
Subject to PRA approval, risk officer in January regulatory and legislative risks we will also use our risk based capital that can arise in the environments model, but with regulatory constraints, 2013, having previously in which we operate.
to calculate capital requirements under led our annuities and Solvency II.
Further details of our risk Q How does the groups risk protection businesses.
based capital model and economic framework help in managing these capital are set out on page 53.
Simons role is to ensure Legal & General risks?
A Our risk framework, the structure of has a clear understanding of the risks Q What are the threats currently facing our businesses and that risk formal risk policies, reporting procedures on your radar?
exposures are managed in line with the and risk oversight activities, supports A The Principal Risks and Uncertainties our business ambition, by enabling parameters and tolerances set by the set out on page 54 and 55 give an Group Board.
us to select those risks that can give overview of the more significant factors us sustainable returns and to closely that may effect the delivery of Legal & Q manage those risks that are unrewarded, How would you summarise Legal Generals strategy, our future revenues & Generals risk profile?
and to optimise the capital that we hold and profitability.
Factors outside our A so that we can deliver our strategy.
As a diverse financial services control such as the performance of business, Legal & General is exposed investment markets and broader to a broad range of risks.
Whilst the Our risk appetite is at the heart of our risk economic outlook perhaps present the framework.
It expresses the types of risk profile of risks differs between each greater area of uncertainty.
As we saw that we are prepared to be exposed to of our businesses, in essence our risk in the 2014 budget, changes in legislation landscape reflects: in pursuit of our business strategy, the can also impact our business model.
minimum capital requirements that As we continue to expand our digital we wish to maintain and the degree Longevity, mortality, morbidity, propositions we must also be mindful and household insurance risks of volatility of earnings that we will of the range of cyber crime threats to seek to avoid.
transferred to us by customers which we may be exposed.
of our annuities, protection and Q general insurance businesses But risk management is not just As part of our ongoing risk assessment about having the right framework?
Investment risks, from holding processes, we seek to identify new and A Alongside a formal risk framework, portfolios of assets to meet our emerging risks, and develop strategies obligations to our customers and it is important that an organisation has to ensure our exposures to risk remain the right culture.
We encourage our to deliver returns to shareholders within acceptable tolerances.
business managers to have a respect for risk and seek to promote an environment where business managers own the risks and risk management processes LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT 49 Our business is to manage risks In the diagram below, we summarise the content provided on pages 50 to 55, setting out how we seek to understand and manage our risks.
UNDERSTANDING OUR RISK RISK MANAGEMENT RISK APPETITE LANDSCAPE FRAMEWORK The risks that are inherent Our formal framework for Our quantitative and qualitative in our businesses arising monitoring our risk landscape expressions for the types of from: and ensuring that we are risk to which we are prepared only exposed to those residual to be exposed.
The products we write risks for which we have an appetite.
The investments we hold requirements that we wish to to meet our obligations Our framework seeks to maintain and the degree of reinforce the parameters of volatility of earnings we wish 3.
T he environment in which acceptable risk taking, allowing to avoid, we set a range of we operate business managers to make tolerances and limits for our decisions that are consistent material risk exposures.
RISK-BASED CAPITAL MODEL Principal risks and uncertainties Finally, we summarise our assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties, along Our approach to determining with the associated trends and the amount of capital that we outlooks, and the steps we take need to hold for the residual to mitigate these principal risks risks to which we are exposed.
Our risk-based capital model seeks to measure by business line and risk type, the capital we assess as being required to survive a worse case 1-in-200 year event, taking account of correlations between risks.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 | 50 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT UNDERSTANDING OUR RISK 2.
ENVIRONMENT WE OPERATE IN LANDSCAPE Market Risks Credit Risks The products that we write, Investment performance Reinsurance counterparties the investments that we hold We invest in a range of investment assets In using reinsurance in our annuity and to meet our obligations and the including equities, bonds and property to meet protection businesses, we are exposed to environment in which we operate the obligations from our insurance products: the risk that a reinsurer may default, impacting however, there is a risk that the income and the payment of claims to us and requiring give rise to a broad range of risks.
value of these investment assets may under us to either seek alternative reinsurance Our risk management framework, perform relative to required targets.
arrangements, potentially on less advantageous which is described on the adjacent terms or bear the reinsured risks directly.
Interest rates and inflation page, seeks to ensure that we are Interest rate movements and inflation can Operational risk only exposed to those residual impact the value of the investment assets risks for which we have an appetite.
we hold to meet our obligations, as well People, process, systems and as the value of the obligations themselves.
external events Our business processes can be complex, with Currency significant reliance placed upon a combination Fluctuations in exchange rates can vary both of IT systems and manual processes.
We also the value and income from investment assets rely upon the knowledge and expert judgement 1.
THE PRODUCTS WE WRITE denominated in foreign currencies, as well as of our people.
Weakness or failure in our the sterling profits and value of our overseas systems and processes, the loss of key businesses.
personnel, or errors and ommissions, could Insurance risk result in financial loss or adversely affect our Credit Risks customers and reputation.
Longevity, mortality andmorbidity The pricing of long term life insurance business Bond default Regulation and legislation requires assumptions to be made for future We hold a significant portfolio of corporate The markets in which we operate are highly trends in the life expectancy and general health bonds to back our annuity business.
Changes in regulation or legislation of those that we insure: with the risk that actual portfolio is diversified across a range can require changes to our products or business experience may diverge to our assumptions, of sectors and geographies, but inherently processes.
A breach of legislative or regulatory requiring an increase in reserves and reducing is exposed to the risk of default resulting in requirements may expose us to financial profits.
penalties, remediation costs and damage our reputation.
Life catastrophe Property direct lending counterparties We also make assumptions about the We also hold property lending and sale likelihood of catastrophic events that could Liquidity risk and leaseback investments and are inherently cause a widespread loss of life or disability exposed to the risk of default by a borrower within the pool of the lives that we insure: with Contingent events or tenant, although we seek to protect our the risk that future events could be more Low probability and typically extreme events interests by taking security over underlying extreme to those that we have assessed in that if not adequately planned for can result property.
in unanticipated requirements for liquidity.
Banks and the issuers Weather events Collateral of financial instruments In pricing household insurance products, Failure to hold sufficient cash or suitable liquid Banking and money market counterparties, we make assumptions about the potential level assets to meet collateral requirements for the issuers of financial instruments and the of claims that we may receive from adverse financial instruments, resulting in unplanned providers of settlement and custody services weather events: with the risk that the actual disposals of assets at excessive cost.
may default on their obligations to us, resulting number and severity of weather events in financial loss.
experienced may diverge from our assumptions, There are potentially material correlations resulting in a higher than expected level between all the above risks, with a single of claims.
event leading to losses on multiple risk types.
These correlations are difficult to estimate Persistency lapse though they would tend to be more acute Were exposed to the risks that acquisition costs as the underlying risk scenarios become may not be recovered from product margins if more extreme.
policies lapse earlier than we anticipated within our pricing assumptions.
Product expenses Our product pricing must also take account of the future costs of product servicing, with deviations in actual costs presenting the risk of reduced product profitability.
An assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties that may impact our business strategy, earnings or profitability are set out on page 54 and 55.
Note 8 asset risk, 19 insurance risk and 29 operational risk to the financial statements further describe how the above risks relate to our businesses and the control techniques that we apply to manage them.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT 51 Risk taking authorities Risk management information RISK MANAGEMENT We cascade the parameters of our risk appetite Our risk management information framework FRAMEWORK to our business managers through Risk and is structured to report and support the review Capital Mandates, empowering managers to of ongoing and emerging risks and assess actual make decisions that are consistent with our risk positions relative to the risk limits and appetite for risk.
Our risk framework is designed to enable the Group Board to Our mandates articulate the product types and Risk oversight draw assurance that risks are features that may be written: the assets classes The group chief risk officer and his team, who that may be held: the target capital positions and being appropriately identified are independent of the business line, support ranges of earnings volatility within which the the Group Board and its Risk Committee in and managed in line with our overall profile of risks should be managed: and articulating acceptable risk taking and ensuring risk appetite.
tolerances for specific risk exposures.
Activities the effective operation of our risk and capital that would result in a business operating outside framework.
This includes ongoing assessment agreed parameters require formal approval from of the groups capital requirements to confirm the group centre.
that they meet regulatory solvency requirements.
We deploy a three lines of defence risk Risk policies The group chief risk officer also provides governance model, whereby business divisions objective challenge and guidance on a range of are responsible for risk taking within the Risk control risk matters to business managers, including the parameters of our risk appetite and accountable We set formal policies for the management risks implicit in product developments, business for managing risks in line with our risk policies: of market, insurance, credit, liquidity and transactions and new asset classes, and risk functions led by the group chief risk officer operational risks.
The policies specify our strategies for managing risks in line with the provide objective challenge and guidance on overall strategies for ensuring each risk type groups overall risk appetite.
risk matters: with Group Internal Audit providing is managed in line with our risk appetite and independent assurance on the effectiveness the minimum control standards that should of business risk management and the overall Risk committees be applied in managing our significant operation of the risk framework.
The core The Group Board has ultimate responsibility risk exposures.
elements of our risk framework are set for the groups risk management framework.
The Group Boards Risk Committee supported Risk mitigation by the group chief risk officer, serves as the focal We deploy a range of risk management point for risk management activities.
Details of Risk appetite techniques to manage and mitigate risks, the operation of the Group Risk Committee are The groups risk appetite statement sets out our so as to control risk exposures in line with our set out on page 74. overall attitude to risk, and the ranges and limits risk limits.
For example, we use derivative of acceptable risk taking.
instruments to hedge unrewarded risks as part Beneath the Group Risk Committee is a structure of our asset liability management activity: and of formal risk oversight committees providing The Group Boards Risk Committee leads reinsurance programmes to transfer significant more focused review and challenge of specific an annual review of the groups risk appetite, aggregations and concentrations of insurance risks to the group, and reviewing the effectiveness assessing the continued appropriateness of our risk exposures.
Our framework of controls of frameworks in place to manage those risks.
key measures and tolerances relative to the risk includes documented underwriting policies and exposures of the group.
Additionally, as part of structured delegated pricing and underwriting the annual planning cycle, assessment is made authorities.
It also includes investment policies of the level of risk taking proposed in the group which take into account the nature of our plan and the capacity for risk taking within the liabilities, guarantees and other embedded overall appetite framework.
The groups risk appetite is approved by the Risk identification and assessment Group Board on the recommendation of the Group Risk Committee and the group chief Review process executive.
The regular management information We operate a risk identification and assessment received by Group Board and Group Risk process under which all our businesses Committee includes our risk appetite dashboard regularly consider changes in the profile of setting out actual positions relative to the key existing and emerging risks.
The assessment targets and limits set in our risk appetite.
process evaluates the risks that are inherent in our products as well as those that are presented from changes in the environments that we operate in.
Own risk solvency assessment Our risk identification and assessment process forms part of our broader own risk and solvency assessment process, our ongoing assessment of the risks to which Legal & General is exposed and an evaluation of the sufficiency of resources to sustain the business strategy over the horizon of the group plan.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 | 52 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT We further define our appetite to the specific We have limited tolerance for the risk of default RISK APPETITE risks to which we are exposed as follows.
by banking and money market counterparties, the issuers of derivative financial instruments, or the providers of settlement and custody Market risk services, and will seek to actively manage We have an appetite for market risk within our all such exposures against our defined Our risk appetite sets the ranges annuities and with-profits businesses, and our counterparty exposure limits.
shareholder funds, where we are rewarded for and limits of acceptable risk taking taking exposure to the risk.
In particular, we have for the Group as a whole.
an appetite for selected risks associated with Insurance risk equity, bond and property investments as the We have an appetite for longevity, mortality and asset class may provide higher investment morbidity risk together with selected household returns relative to the risk free rate over the insurance risks where we expect to add value medium term and enable the optimisation by accepting such risks, and have the capability We express our overall attitude to risk using of risk adjusted returns.
to assess, price for and monitor trends in the the following statements and measures risks assumed.
We have limited tolerance, however for significant losses or volatility from these market We have a low tolerance for not achieving Strategy risks and so we seek to set clear investment our target reward for risk as a result of policies We manage a diversified portfolio in which we risk limits which must be adhered to by group lapsing at a faster rate than that anticipated.
accept risk in the normal course of business and businesses.
We also have limited tolerance for Similarly we have a low tolerance for negative aim to deliver sustainable returns on risk based significant mismatches in interest rates where variances on product expense assumptions.
capital in excess of cost of capital.
asset outgoes are expected to cover liability We seek to manage both these risks by outgoes over a long time horizon, and risks investigations and monitoring experience and Risk appetite measure arising from fluctuations in inflation.
Where reflect the conclusions in our product design Minimum return on equity over the hedging instruments exist, we seek to remove and reserving strategies.
Similarly, we have a limited tolerance for developed country currency risk We have limited tolerance for an accumulation We have an appetite for risks we understand and relative to the base currency of our investment of catastrophe risk by geographic location are rewarded for, and which are consistent with assets and will selectively hedge these and will seek to use a combination of delivery of our strategic objectives.
underwriting, geographic concentration limits and reassurance to manage such exposures.
Risk appetite measure Similarly, we have limited tolerance for exposure Maximum economic capital to be deployed Credit risk to weather events and will seek to purchase over the planning cycle.
We have an appetite for selected credit risk excess of loss reinsurance to protect against to the extent that accepting this risk enables this risk.
us to optimise policyholder and group Capital risk-adjusted returns.
We aim to maintain an appropriate buffer of Operational risk capital resources over the minimum regulatory In particular, we accept a degree of bond We accept a degree of exposure to operational and economic capital requirements.
default as a necessary part of bond investments.
risk where exposures arise as a result of core However, we have limited tolerance for strategic activity, however, we have very limited Risk appetite measure significant losses from single or interrelated appetite for large operational losses due to the Minimum statutory and economic capital counterparty failures, and therefore set credit likely customer impact, reputational damage coverage ratios.
rating based exposure limits for investment and opportunity costs.
portfolios as well as limits on exposures to Earnings volatility specific sectors and single counterparties.
We aim to implement effective controls to We have a low appetite for volatility of earnings.
reduce operational risk exposures except where In particular volatility arising from risks where We also have an appetite for property direct the costs of such controls exceed the expected Legal & General has more exposure than the lending counterparty risk where we can assess benefits.
the risk of default on loan repayments and the taking of the risk enables us to optimise group Liquidity risk Risk appetite measure risk adjusted returns, including those derived We do not seek exposure to liquidity risk, but Maximum acceptable variance in earnings to through a diversification of credit risk.
We have accept that a degree of exposure will arise plan over the planning cycle.
limited tolerance, however, for significant as a consequence of the markets in which we loss from the failure of property lending operate, the products that we write and through Customer and reputation counterparties and require that all lending the execution of investment management We treat our customers with integrity and is subject to formal underwriting and secured strategies.
However, we have no appetite to act in a manner that protects or enhances the on physical property assets.
fail to meet our obligations as they fall due group franchise.
or to incur material losses on forced asset sales We accept the risk of reinsurer default, where to meet obligations.
Risk appetite measure the use of reinsurance is used to support our Customer and reputation risk dashboard.
pricing strategies for longevity, mortality, We seek to maintain at a group level sufficient morbidity and disability risks, or is used to liquid assets and standby facilities to meet a mitigate exposure to significant accumulations Liquidity prudent estimate of the groups cash outflows, of risk.
However, we have limited tolerance We expect to be able to meet our payment as identified through annual planning processes.
for significant financial loss or operational and collateral obligations under extreme, disruption from a default event and we will seek but plausible, liquidity scenarios.
to set and monitor credit risk derived exposure limits for each reinsurance counterparty with Risk appetite metric which we do business.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT 53 Risk profile mortality remains appropriate, however, as set RISK BASED CAPITAL MODEL Measured in terms of economic capital out in our assessment of principal risks and requirement, credit and longevity risks are the uncertainties, a dramatic advance in medical most significant risks to the group, substantially science could improve the life expectancy for driven by our Legal & General Retirement the portfolio of lives that we insure.
Our risk based capital model seeks business.
to ensure that the capital we hold is Solvency II Bond default Solvency II is targeted for regulatory commensurate with the risks to The primary driver of the capital requirement implementation in January 2016.
We have been which our businesses are exposed for credit risk reflects that the issuers of preparing for the new capital regime for over bonds could default on their obligations to five years, significantly enhancing our economic us.
We actively manage our portfolio of bond capital and risk framework by delivering our risk investments to mitigate the risk of default, based capital model.
We will be making our however, there remains a residual risk that in formal application to the PRA to use our risk very extreme conditions a systematic default based capital model as the basis for determining RISK PROFILE event could result in the financial failure of even our regulatory capital requirement under strongly rated issuers of debt.
Solvency II, in the second quarter of 2015.
The success of our application will be dependent Longevity upon agreement by the PRA of our model and Our capital requirement for longevity risk the calibrations for our key risks.
Factors such as reflects that life expectancy may improve at PRA interpretation of the matching adjustment a much faster rate than the assumptions we rules are also areas of continuing uncertainty.
have made in determining our best estimate of These factors mean that we are exposed to the required reserves for longevity.
We undertake risk that our surplus capital is lower under extensive analysis of trends in longevity to Solvency II than under current rules.
ensure that our assessment of future rates of SUMMARY OF ASSESSED PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES On pages 54 and 55, we summarise our assessment of principal risks and uncertainties, along with the associated trends and outlooks, and the steps we take to mitigate them.
As with understanding our risk landscape, these can be grouped around three categories, with the majority arising from the Credit Risk environment in which we operate: Market Risk Insurance Risk The products we write The investments we hold The environment in to meet our obligations which we operate Operational Risk Reserves for long term Investment market Changes in regulation business may require performance or or legislation may have revisions as a result of conditions in the broader a detrimental effect on changes in experience, economy may adversely our strategy.
Our model regulation or legislation.
impact our earnings Our risk based capital model seeks to provide a and profitability.
quantitative assessment of the risks to which the group is exposed.
It plays a central role in risk In dealing with issuers of As a UK-based group, management across the group, through debt and other types of our earnings are informing and influencing a proportionate counterparty the group influenced by the response to identified risk exposures and forms is exposed to the risk of performance and part of the suite of tools that we use to evaluate financial loss.
perception of the our strategic plans, set risk appetite, allocate UK financial services capital and evaluate product pricing.
use our model in the assessment of significant transactions, including large bulk annuities and The group may not business acquisitions.
maximise opportunities from structural and other The key output from our risk based capital changes within the model is the generation of capital requirements financial services sector, calculated on an economic basis.
We calibrate adversely impacting our model to a 99.5% value at risk confidence future earnings.
level over one year, equivalent to ensuring that we hold sufficient capital reserves to survive our A material failure in our assessment of a worse case 1-in-200 year event.
business processes may The model covers the material risk exposures result in unanticipated identified within our risk landscape where they financial loss or are quantifiable.
The financial services sector is increasingly becoming a target of cyber crime.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 | 54 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Principal risks and uncertainties Set out below is our assessment of current principal risks and uncertainties.
A detailed review of the groups inherent risk exposures and high level control processes are set out at Notes 8, 19 and 29 of the financial statements.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES TREND AND OUTLOOK MITIGATION Reserves for long-term business may We regularly appraise the assumptions underpinning We undertake significant analysis of require revision as a result of changes the business that we write.
In our annuities business longevity and mortality risks to ensure in experience, regulation or legislation.
we are, however, exposed to factors such as an appropriate premium is charged for The writing of long term insurance business dramatic advances in medical science beyond those the risks we take on and that our reserves requires the setting of assumptions for long anticipated leading to unexpected changes in life remain appropriate.
We remain focused on term trends in factors such as mortality, lapse expectancy.
In protection business we remain developing a comprehensive understanding rates and persistency, valuation interest rates, inherently exposed to rates of mortality diverging of annuitant mortality and we continue expenses and credit defaults.
Actual experience from assumptions and to loss from events that cause to evolve and develop our underwriting may result in the need to recalibrate these widespread mortality morbidity or significant policy capabilities.
The sensitivities of our assumptions reducing profitability.
As illustrated by the implementation of business to a range of scenarios are set changes in reserves can also be required the EU gender neutral pricing legislation, there is out on page 169.
We seek to ensure that because of regulatory or legislative intervention also potential for legislative intervention in the legislators understand the benefits in the way that products are priced, reducing pricing of insurance products irrespective of risk to consumers of pricing insurance profitability and future earnings.
factors, such as age or health.
products based on the risk factors that each policy presents.
Investment market performance or Whilst global investment markets have returned to We model our business plans across a conditions in the broader economy pre-financial crisis levels, in the current environment broad range of economic scenarios and take may adversely impact our earnings and there is limited resilience in financial markets for account of alternative economic outlooks profitability.
The performance and liquidity shocks, with potential for significant falls in asset within our overall business strategy.
As part of investment markets, interest rate movements values should markets reassess returns.
Factors that of our business plans we have sought to and inflation impact the value of investments we may result in shocks include a deterioration in ensure focus upon those market segments hold in shareholders funds and those to meet geo-political stability for example as a consequence that we expect to be resilient in projected the obligations from insurance business.
Interest of tensions in Eastern Europe and the Middle East: an conditions.
Details of our business strategy rate movement and inflation can also change abrupt change in the monetary policies of the are set out on pages 14 to 30.
Sensitivities to the value of our obligations.
We use a range of leading economies: or a further crisis in the Euro interest rates, exposure to worldwide equity techniques to manage mismatches between zone.
Financial markets may also reappraise asset markets and currencies are set out assets and liabilities.
However, loss can still arise valuations as a result of changes in the outlook for on pages 158, 169 and 196 respectively.
In addition, significant the global economy including for example, a falls in investment values can reduce fee income projected period of low or negative growth amongst to our investment management business, while leading economies or a period of prolonged broader economic conditions can impact the deflation, and in response to outcomes from purchase and the retention of retail financial elections in the UK, Europe and the US.
In dealing with issuers of debt and other Recent years have seen a narrowing of credit We actively manage our exposure to default types of counterparty the group is exposed spreads reflecting market confidence in the issuers risks, setting counterparty selection criteria to the risk of financial loss.
A systematic of investment grade bonds, and at Legal & General and exposure limits and hold reserves default event within the corporate sector, we have continued to experience low levels of against our assessment of counterparty or a major sovereign debt event, could result default on our corporate bond portfolio.
We continue to diversify in dislocation of bond markets, significantly remains, however, a range of factors that could the asset classes backing our annuities widening credit spreads, and may result in trigger defaults by the issuers of debt, leading business, to include the use of property default of even strongly rated issuers of debt, to reduced profitability or financial loss.
These lending, sale and leaseback and other forms exposing us to financial loss.
We are also include a sovereign debt event or a banking crisis of direct investment.
Exposures to credit exposed to banking, money market and developing, for example in emerging markets.
An risk are set out on page 158 and sensitivities reinsurance counterparties, and settlement, economic shock or significant change in the current to changes in credit spreads on page 169. custody and other bespoke business services, economic outlook may also increase potential for a a failure of which could expose us to both supplier of business services being unable to meet financial loss and operational disruption their obligations to us.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 55 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES TREND AND OUTLOOK MITIGATION Changes in regulation or legislation may The regulatory landscape continues to evolve.
The We remain vigilant to the risk that future have a detrimental effect on our strategy.
Solvency II capital regime is to be implemented by legislative and regulatory change may have Legislation and government fiscal policy the PRA on 1 January 2016: the FCA is continuing to unintended consequences for the sectors in influence our product design, the period of develop its approach to consumer regulation: and which we operate.
We seek to actively retention of products and our required reserves we continue to see new regulation emerging from participate with Government and regulatory for future liabilities.
Regulation defines the the EU.
More broadly, as illustrated in the 2014 bodies in the UK and Europe to assist in the overall framework for the design, marketing and budget announcement, the sectors in which we evaluation of change so as to develop distribution of our products: and the prudential operate remain inherently exposed to sudden outcomes that meet the needs of all capital that we hold.
Significant changes in changes in legislation and regulation.
Internally, we evaluate the legislation or regulation may reduce our future to Solvency II, the capital that we will be required to impact of all legislative and regulatory revenues and profitability or require us to hold hold will not be certain until PRA agreement of our change as part of our formal risk more capital.
The prominence of the risk internal model, with the risk that the final outcome identification and assessment processes, increases where change is implemented without results in a lower capital surplus than under with material matters being considered at prior engagement with the sector.
There are also challenges in ensuring the Group Risk Committee and the Group long term business can also result in some that regulatory interpretation of the new rules is Board.
We maintain a flexible distribution changes in regulation, and the re-interpretation proportionate and cost effective for the insurance model to respond to changing market of regulation over time, having a retrospective sector.
In terms of consumer regulation, there trends.
effect on our in-force books of business, remains a need for greater regulatory certainty to impacting the value of embedded future profits.
providing consumer guidance and addressing the advice gap in a post Retail Distribution Review and an increasingly digital world.
As a UK based group, our earnings are As a significant participant in the long term savings We actively manage our brand and seek influenced by the performance and and insurance markets, we are exposed to changes to differentiate our business model from perception of the UK financial services in consumer sentiment.
We are also exposed to that of our competitors, focusing on our sector as a whole.
The financial crisis, increased costs of regulatory compliance through customers needs through a diversified subsequent investment performance and regulatory and legislative responses to events in the portfolio of risk, savings and investment low interest rate environment, together with financial services sector.
We also actively engage with regulatory actions in the sector, may impact requirements for central clearing of certain our regulators to support understanding consumer attitudes to long term savings and derivative instruments, which would increase the of the risk drivers in the markets in which insurance products.
Regulatory actions may also costs associated with pension savings products and we operate, and highlight matters where lead to changes to the regulatory and legislative annuities, respectively.
we believe the industry needs to change.
environment in which we operate.
The group may not maximise opportunities Macro trends in the markets in which we operate As set out at pages 4 and 5, weve defined from structural and other changes within remain those of an ageing population: reform in the clear strategies to respond to the macro the financial services sector, adversely provision of state welfare: retrenchment by the trends.
We monitor as part of our ongoing impacting future earnings.
Significant banks: the globalisation of asset markets: and the risk review processes, factors that may, changes in the markets in which we operate may increasing use of digital technologies.
Responding to impact our responses to these macro trends require the review and realignment of elements these trends potentially creates people and change and seek to ensure appropriate risk of our business strategy.
A failure to be risks, such as organisational challenges and mitigation plans are put in place.
sufficiently responsive to potential change and management stretch across the range of initiatives.
understand the implication to our businesses, As set out on page 9, regulatory changes and or the incorrect execution of change may impact political risks may also present complexity in the achievement of our strategic objectives.
A material failure in our business processes Our plans for growth inherently will increase the Our three lines of defence risk governance may result in unanticipated financial loss or profile of operational risks across our businesses.
model seeks to ensure that business reputation damage.
We have constructed our We continue to invest in our system capabilities and management are actively engaged in framework of internal controls to minimise the business processes to ensure that we meet the maintaining an appropriate control risk of unanticipated financial loss or damage to expectations of our customers: comply with environment, supported by risk functions our reputation.
However, no system of internal regulatory, legal and financial reporting led by the group chief risk officer, with control can completely eliminate the risk of requirements: and mitigate the risks of loss or independent assurance from Group error, financial loss, fraudulent actions or reputational damage from operational risk events.
The work of the Group Audit reputational damage.
Committee in the review of the internal control system is set out on page 70.
The financial services sector is increasingly The financial services sector continues to see Were focused on maintaining a robust becoming a target of cyber crime.
As we attempts by third parties to seek and exploit and secure IT environment.
Working with and our business partners increasingly digitalise perceived vulnerabilities in IT systems.
Potential our business partners, we seek to ensure our businesses, we are inherently exposed to threats include denial of service attacks, network the security of our systems with proactive the risk that third parties may seek to disrupt intrusions to steal data for the furtherance responses to emerging threats, however, our online business operations, steal customer of financial crime, and the electronic diversion the evolving nature of cyber threats means data or perpetrate acts of fraud using digital of funds.
that residual risks will remain.
A significant cyber event could result the Group Risk Committee received an update in reputation damage and financial loss.
on cyber risks and our control framework.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 56 GOVERNANCE In this section... Board of directors 58 Letter from the Chairman 60 Corporate governance 62 Nominations Committee report 68 Audit Committee report 70 Group Risk Committee report 74 Directors report on remuneration 76 Leightons story We helped Leighton Morris, a self-employed photographer from South Wales with a young family, rebuild his life after bowel cancer left him with no income for several months.
Our critical illness policy helped him pay his mortgage and re-establish his photography business.
We protect millions of people like Leighton, making sure that were there to help them at the most difficult times of their lives.
This is how our decisions are felt by people and what they want for their lives.
com advisercentre protection why-choose-us  leighton.
html LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT G GO OV VEERRN NAN ANCCEE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 57 51 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
