Risk management Risk management continued EMERGING RISKS The Group considers the following to be risks that have the potential to increase in significance and affect the performance of the Group.
These risks are considered alongside the Groups five year operating plan.
Risk Key mitigating actions Compliance and Competition Regulation Close working with the FCA and other regulatory bodies to support There is a material volume of regulatory change including market studies positive customer outcomes and compliance.
undertaken by the FCA and Competition and Markets Authority, overhaul Rigorous implementation of a well defined and embedded Conduct of the Senior Managers Regime and evolving regulatory oversight on Strategy and customer redress actions.
All of these could impact on the Groups direction, Embedding appropriate policies in the Risk Management Framework.
Full participation in all industry wide initiatives and IT investment to support new and secure payment product delivery channels.
Embedding competition risk within key policies.
Leveraging data Assessment of the possible impacts of this legislation is ongoing Increasing regulatory scrutiny under EU Data Protection Regulation and the Group expects to deliver enhanced systems to fulfil related could have material commercial impact on the Groups strategy as regulatory requirements.
Digital A full review of digital offering and related business plans to ensure the Internet and mobile technologies are changing the way the Group Group is fully able to respond.
The evolution of these technologies will Addressing the Groups digital solutions in all relevant policies, require us to assess these services in respect of our conduct approach, standards, governance and control models.
multi-channel distribution, operational and legal developments and back office digitalisation.
Data integrity and systems infrastructure Group investments will continue to address data integrity and security.
The Group must continue to invest to maintain robust data integrity, Assessment of the possible impacts of EU Data Protection Regulation security to ensure the quality, flow and consistency of data to meet legislation is ongoing and the Group expects to deliver enhanced regulatory and internal standards including the EU Data Protection systems to fulfil related regulatory requirements.
Ring Fencing and Resolution planning Continued progress following close and detailed liaison and UK Ring Fencing legislation and Resolution planning continue to engagement with Prudential Regulation Authority PRA, Bank influence the Groups business and operating model and could impact of England and all relevant regulatory bodies to deliver required the ability to, and cost of, servicing customers effectively.
Resolution and Ring Fencing obligations.
Extensive resources mobilised to deliver on requirements.
Evolving capital requirements The Group has made significant progress and continues to deliver on The regulatory capital framework continues to be developed and there is its strategy of strengthening the balance sheet, including its capital a risk that this will give rise to higher regulatory capital requirements than position, to improve the resilience of the Group.
the Group has anticipated within its strategic plans.
Developments are The Group continues to work closely with regulatory authorities and being made at a global level through the FSB and Basel Committee, at a industry associations to ensure that it is able to identify and respond to European level mainly through the issuance of CRD IV technical standards proposed regulatory changes.
and guidelines and within the UK by the PRA and through directions from The Group has strong governance, processes and controls which, the FPC.
combined with the Groups proactive management of risk, result in an appropriate level of capital.
Impact of accounting standards Impact assessments will continue to be undertaken and subsequent New reporting requirements under IFRS 9 introduce forward looking plans put in place to ensure the Group is compliant with this new credit loss models which could lead to changes in the timing of reporting 2018 reporting standard which will be deployed in a controlled and of impairments and therefore the Groups capital position.
UK political uncertainty and risk of United Kingdom The Group will continue to monitor and assess potential impacts while leaving the European Union managing all exposures according to current risk policies.
The outcome of the 2015 General Election, and the likelihood of a referendum on British membership of the EU, remain unclear.
Geopolitical shocks Risk appetite criteria limits single counterparty bank and non bank Geopolitical uncertainties could impact the current gradual global exposures, supported by country limits commitments accordingly and recovery, market risk pricing, asset price valuations and oil prices leading a strategy that is UK focused.
to tighter financial conditions, higher funding costs and therefore The Group has continued to limit the reliance on short-term wholesale potentially reducing returns.
funding within the funding structure, favouring customer deposits and long-term wholesale funding coupled with a substantial portfolio of liquid assets.
