Strategic report Risk overview ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2014 Effective risk management, The Group strategy laid out in 2011 is now substantially complete.
We have reshaped the Group, strengthened the balance sheet and delivered Simplification savings which have enabled reinvestment for growth.
The governance and control independent Risk Division has played a pivotal role in supporting delivery which includes: Managing risk effectively is important for any bank and is fundamental Conduct to our strategy.
We are now a low cost, low risk, UK focused retail and Initiatives spanning the entire Group support the conduct agenda from commercial bank.
This has been achieved by maintaining a conservative strategy, insight, product, processes, through to sales and service to drive business model which embodies a risk culture founded on a prudent consistently good customer outcomes.
Risk Division has played a key appetite for risk.
role in shaping this strategy and determining conduct risk measures to Our approach to risk is founded on an effective control framework and monitor performance and continue to support the journey to be market a strong risk management culture which guides how our employees leading in complaint management through robust root cause analysis approach their work, the way they behave and the decisions they make.
The amount and type of risk that we are prepared to seek, accept or tolerate, otherwise known as risk appetite, works in tandem with Capital strength our strategy and is approved by the Board.
Our risk appetite is then During the year, our common equity tier 1 CET1 capital position has embedded within policies, authorities and limits across the Group.
continued to build to 12.8 per cent, increasing by 2.5 per cent in the year, in line with our capital generative strategy.
The Groups EBA and RISK AS A STRATEGIC DIFFERENTIATOR PRA stress testing exercises exceeded the relevant thresholds and The Group strategy and risk appetite were developed together to ensure the PRA confirmed no requirement to submit a revised capital plan or one informed the other in creating a strategy that delivers on becoming undertake additional management actions.
the best bank for our customers whilst helping Britain prosper and creating sustainable growth over time.
Impairment Through effective risk management our impairment charge improved by Risks are identified, managed and mitigated using our Risk Management 60 per cent to 1,200 million, mainly driven by the reduction in Run-off Framework see page 31.
The principal risks we face, which could assets and the sustained improvement in asset quality across the Group.
significantly impact the delivery of our strategy, are discussed on pages 32 and 33.
Operational agility We believe effective risk management can be a strategic differentiator, Risk Division has continued to invest via the Risk Transformation in particular: Programme, driving improvements in supporting systems, simplified processes, improved customer experience and improved credit Sustainable growth decision engines in order to deliver the most efficient and effective The role of risk is to provide proactive support and constructive challenge returns for the Group, underpinning the Groups targeted objective to the business to deliver sustainable growth, which is achieved through of sustainable growth.
informed risk decision making and superior risk and capital management, supported by a consistent risk-focused culture across the Group.
State aid commitments Risk Division continued to support the Groups divestment of TSB, with Conservative approach to risk the Group selling 35 per cent of ordinary shares by way of an Initial We have a fully embedded conservative approach to, and prudent Public Offering in June 2014, 3.5 per cent through utilisation of an over appetite for, risk with risk culture and appetite driven from the top.
allotment option in July 2014 and a further 11.5 per cent of the ordinary shares by way of an Institutional Placing in September 2014, remaining Strong control framework on course to complete the divestment by the end of 2015.
This framework is the foundation for the delivery of effective risk management and ensures that the business units operate within RISK PRIORITIES FOR 2015 approved parameters.
E nabling and delivering sustainable growth Effective risk analysis, management and reporting Helping the business make the right decisions through proactive This identifies opportunities as well as risks and ensures risks are support and constructive challenge to the business areas whilst managed appropriately and consistent with strategy.
Our principal delivering the right risk and customer outcomes.
risks and performance against risk appetite are monitored and reported regularly to senior management using quantitative C reating the best customer experience and qualitative analysis and are subject to relevant stress testing.
Putting our customers at the heart of our decisions throughout the This enables us to understand the risk in the business at both Group through continued embedding of the conduct strategy and an individual risk type and aggregate portfolio level.
Business focus and accountability B ecoming simpler and more efficient Managing risk effectively is a key focus and is one of the five criteria Responding quickly to changing customer, business and within the Group Balanced Scorecard on which business areas and regulatory needs.
Our approach to risk means that businesses remain accountable for risk but a strong and independent risk function also helps ensure adherence to the Groups risk and control frameworks.
Continued investment in risk systems and processes help differentiate our risk management approach.
30 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance is maintained through delegation of authority from the RISK GOVERNANCE Risk management strategy and risk appetite are developed and reviewed Board, down through the management hierarchy to individuals, and is supported by a committee based structure designed to ensure that our in tandem with Group strategy.
The Group uses an enterprise-wide risk management framework to ensure a robust and consistent approach to risk appetite, policies, procedures, controls and reporting are fully in line with regulations, law, corporate governance and industry best practice.
risk management is applied across all business areas and all risk types in order to drive improvements in its risk profile in line with risk appetite.
Our approach to risk is founded on a robust control framework and a strong risk management culture which ensures that business units The framework articulates individual and collective accountabilities for remain accountable for risk and therefore guides the way all employees risk management, risk oversight and risk assurance and supports the approach their work, behave and make decisions.
Board-level discharge of responsibilities to customers, shareholders and regulators.
engagement, coupled with the direct involvement of senior management It establishes a common risk language which assigns risks to which the in Group-wide risk issues at Group Executive Committee level, ensures Group is exposed, to categories which are used consistently to support that issues are promptly escalated and remediation plans are initiated risk aggregation and reporting.
The frameworks will evolve and be where required.
The interaction of the executive and non-executive periodically updated to reflect any changes in the nature of our business governance structures relies upon a culture of transparency and openness and the external environment.
that is encouraged by both the Board and senior management.
A strong The framework outlines the key risk management activities undertaken control framework remains a priority for the Group and is the foundation consistently across the Group for all types of risk.
for the delivery of effective risk management.
Performance is optimised by allowing business units to operate within approved parameters.
Accountability for ensuring risk is managed consistently Confirmation of the effectiveness of the Risk with the Risk Framework approved by the Board Framework and underlying risk and control Setting risk appetite and strategy Board Authorities Approval of the risk management framework Board and Group-wide risk principles Role Review risk appetite, frameworks and principles.
Through Board-delegated Executive Senior to be recommended to the Board.
Authorities there is effective oversight of Management Be exemplars of risk management risk management consistent with Role risk appetite Determined by the Board and Senior Management.
The Risk Appetite Framework ensures Business units formulate their strategy in line with our risks are being managed in line Risk appetite the Groups risk appetite with our risk appetite Supports a consistent approach Supporting a consistent approach to the to enterprise-wide behaviour Group-wide behaviour and risk decision making.
Governance frameworks and decision making Consistency is delivered through the policy framework and risk committee structures Monitoring, oversight and assurance Maintains a robust control ensures effective risk management framework, identifying and 3 Lines of Mandate of the across the Group escalating emerging risks and defence model Risk Division supporting sustainable growth Defined processes exist to Carried out by all three lines identify, measure and control our of defence and is an integral Risk identification, Risk monitoring, aggregation current and emerging risks part of our control measurement and control and reporting effectiveness assessment In line with our Code of Processes and infrastructure Responsibility.
Culture are being invested in to Resources and Culture ensures performance, risk further improve our risk capabilities and reward are aligned management capabilities Risk-specific needs Risk-type specific defined in detail for sub-frameworks Primary risk drivers implementation by e. g. credit risk each business BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 31 Strategic report Risk overview continued The most significant risks faced by the Group which could impact on the success of delivering against the Groups strategic objectives together with key mitigating actions are outlined below.
Commentary PRINCIPAL RISKS KEY MITIGATING ACTIONS KEY RISK INDICATORS FUTURE FOCUS 1 IMPAIRMENT CHARGE ASSET QUALITY RATIO Credit risk Credit policy incorporating prudent lending criteria aligned with The material reduction reflects lower levels Continue to support the UK the Board approved risk appetite to effectively manage credit risk.
2014 2014 of new impairment as a result of effective economy through appropriate Any adverse changes in the economic and market environment we 2014 1.2bn 2014 0.24% risk management, improving economic lending to Retail and operate in, or the credit quality and or behaviour of our borrowers and Clearly defined levels of authority ensure we lend appropriately and 2013 2013 conditions and the continued low interest Commercial customers including counterparties would reduce the value of our assets and potentially responsibly with separation of origination and sanctioning activities.
2013 3bn 2013 0.57% 2012 2012 increase our write-downs and allowances for impairment losses, rate environment, together with Run-off asset first-time buyers and SMEs, without Robust credit processes and controls including well-established reductions.
governance to ensure distressed and impaired loans are identified, considered and controlled with independent credit risk assurance.
Read more on page 116 Conduct risk Customer focused conduct strategy implemented to ensure BANKING COMPLAINTS PER FCA reportable banking complaints increased C ontinued reduction in complaint 1 1,000 ACCOUNTS EXCL.
PPI customers are at the heart of everything we do.
during the year due to legacy and historic levels through root-cause analysis We face significant potential conduct risk, including selling products issues, with the increase largely driven by and improvements in complaints to customers which do not meet their needs: failing to deal Product approval, review processes and outcome testing supported 2014 1.5 increased activity from claims management handling.
with customers complaints effectively: not meeting customers by conduct management information.
expectations: and exhibiting behaviours which do not meet 2013 1.0 companies.
2012 Clear customer accountabilities for colleagues, with rewards market or regulatory standards.
Learning from past mistakes, including root cause analysis.
Read more on page 136 PENSION DEFICIT SURPLUS A structural hedge programme has been implemented to manage The DBPS are in a surplus of 890 million Continue to effectively manage Market risk 2014 liability margins and margin compression.
at 2014 which is an improvement from a the DBPS to secure pensions Key market risks include interest rate risk across the Banking and 2014 SURPLUS 890m Insurance businesses.
However, our most significant market risk is 787 million deficit in 2013.
Volatility has provision to members and 2013 Board approved pensions risk appetite covering interest rate, from the Defined Benefit Pension Schemes DBPS where asset and been reduced due to interest rate and minimise Group impact.
787m DEFICIT 2013 credit spreads and equity risks.
Credit assets are being purchased 2012 liability movements impact on our capital position.
inflation hedging and equity sales.
and equity holdings reduced in the pension schemes.
Stress and scenario testing of risk exposures.
Read more on page 138 AVAILABILITY OF CORE SYSTEMS Continually review IT system architecture to ensure that our systems are IT service availability improved on 2013 with Ongoing investment in IT Operational risk resilient and that the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our critical 99.96 per cent availability across our key resilience.
We face significant operational risks which may result in financial loss, 2014 99.96% systems and information assets are protected against cyber attacks.
We continue to invest in improving disruption or damage to the reputation of the Group.
These include Risk appetite monitoring for the availability, resilience and security of our core IT systems and the the resilience of our systems to avoid outages 2013 99.94% Continue to implement the actions from the 2013 independent 2012 critical business processes.
and minimise any customer impact.
potential for failings in our customer processes.
IT Resilience Review to enhance the resilience of systems supporting the processes most critical to our customers.
Read more on page 144 Funding and liquidity risk At 31 December 2014 the Group had 109.3 billion of unencumbered PRIMARY LIQUIDITY 1yr LOAN TO Primary and secondary liquidity assets provide Continue to meet all current 1 WHOLESALE FUNDING DEPOSIT RATIO primary liquid assets and the Group maintains a further large pool of a substantial buffer in the event of an extended regulatory ratios and ensure we Our funding and liquidity position is supported by a significant and secondary assets that can be used to access Central Bank liquidity facilities.
meet all future regulatory ratios.
A deterioration in either our or the 2014 2.7 2014 107% UKs credit rating, or a sudden and significant withdrawal of customer Daily monitoring against a number of market and Group specific early deposits would adversely impact our funding and liquidity position.
2013 2.0 2013 113% warning indicators and regular stress tests.
2012 Contingency funding plan to identify liquidity concerns earlier.
Read more on page 146 1 Close monitoring of capital and leverage ratios to ensure we meet CET1 RATIO LEVERAGE RATIO Further progress has been made in improving Continue to meet current and future Capital risk our current and future regulatory requirements.
our capital position through a strongly capital regulatory requirements, whilst Our future capital position is potentially at risk from a worsening 2014 12.8% 2014 4.9% generative strategy, including Run-off and optimising value for shareholders.
This could lead to adverse financial Comprehensive stress testing analysis to evidence sufficient levels performance for the Group, which could deplete capital resources disposal of assets, and the issuance of new 2013 10.3% 2013 3.8% of capital adequacy for the Group under various adverse scenarios.
We expect to generate between additional tier 1 and tier 2 securities in April and or increase capital requirements due to a deterioration in 1.5 per cent and 2.0 per cent of In addition to accumulating retained profits we can raise additional and November 2014 respectively.
capital in a variety of ways.
Read more on page 153 The Legal, Regulatory and Mandatory Change Committee ensures LEGAL, REGULATORY AND MANDATORY We continue to build constructive relationships Ongoing constructive engagement Regulatory risk INVESTMENT SPEND we develop plans for regulatory changes and tracks their progress.
with our regulators in order to effectively with regulators.
We are subject to industry wide investigations and reviews into a manage the regulatory change agenda.
perceived lack of competition in UK banking and financial services.
Continued investment in our people, processes and IT systems is 2014 406m Continued compliance with the The outcomes of the UK General Election in May 2015 and the enabling us to meet our regulatory commitments.
2013 402m investigations by the CMA and FCA are presently unclear and their Continued engagement with government and regulatory authorities impact therefore remains uncertain.
Other initiatives under review on forthcoming regulatory changes and market investigations and include the ring-fencing proposals in the Banking Reform Act 2013, reviews.
the new FCA Consumer Credit regime and CRD IV.
Read more on page 166 2 Work collaboratively with regulators to implement the new Individual As part of our Colleague Engagement Survey, Continued action to further People risk BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS Key people risks include the risk that the Group fails to lead Accountability Regime in 2015, ensuring burden of proof and the Best Bank for Customers index is designed strengthen performance to 2014 72% Favourable attestation requirements are effectively implemented.
to help the Group understand the colleague become the best bank for responsibly in an increasing competitive marketplace, particularly with views on progress we are making towards customers.
the introduction of the Senior Managers Regime and Certification Maintain competitive working practices to attract, retain and engage becoming the best bank for customers.
Regime which will come into force in 2015.
This may dissuade capable high quality people.
individuals from taking up senior positions within our Group.
Create a work environment which listens and acts on colleague feedback, making the Group the best bank for colleagues.
32 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Commentary PRINCIPAL RISKS KEY MITIGATING ACTIONS KEY RISK INDICATORS FUTURE FOCUS 1 IMPAIRMENT CHARGE ASSET QUALITY RATIO Credit risk Credit policy incorporating prudent lending criteria aligned with The material reduction reflects lower levels Continue to support the UK the Board approved risk appetite to effectively manage credit risk.
governance to ensure distressed and impaired loans are identified, 1 considered and controlled with independent credit risk assurance.
This key risk indicator is also a key performance indicator KPI.
1 This key risk indicator is also a key performance indicator KPI.
2012 1 This key risk indicator is also a key performance indicator KPI.
Contingency funding plan to identify liquidity concerns earlier.
Create a work environment which listens and acts on colleague 2 New measure for 2014.
No comparison data available for 2013. feedback, making the Group the best bank for colleagues.
Read more on page 168 BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 33 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 FINANCIAL RESULTS Summary of Group results 35 Five year financial summary 43 Divisional results 44 Other financial information 54
