54 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties Overview of Principal Risks: Strategic Risks Financial Risks Operational Risks Global economy Liquidity risk Clearing Technology Competition Latent market risk Clearing Change management Regulatory change Settlement and custodial risks Investment Management business Compliance Capital management Security threats Transformation risk Employees Strategic Risks Risks related to our strategy including the implementation of strategic initiatives and external threats to the achievement of our strategy.
The category also includes risks associated with reputation or brand values.
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION Global economy As a diversified international exchange group we operate in a broad range The widening geographical footprint of the Group, including the recently of global equity, bond and derivative markets.
If the global economy acquired Frank Russell Company, has improved the geographical underperforms, lower activity in our markets may lead to lower fee revenue.
diversification of the Groups income streams.
The widening geographical footprint of the Group, including the recently The Group performs regular analyses to monitor the markets and the acquired Frank Russell Company, has increased the proportion of the potential impacts on the business.
Activities include Key Risk Indicator Groups earnings that are in foreign currency, leading to greater foreign tracking, stress testing, and hedging.
The Financial Risk Committee closely monitors and analyses multiple The amount and mix of Russells assets under management are subject to market scenarios and action plans in order to minimise any impacts fluctuations from market volatility, which may impact Russells fee levels stemming from a potential deterioration of the macroeconomic and operating results.
Russells ability to achieve investment returns for environment.
The eurozone and geopolitical concerns are closely clients is a key driver of the growth of assets under management.
monitored by the Financial Risk Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
The improving economic environment in the UK has had a positive impact on the Groups business, and has increased the activity on our primary Group Treasury risk is monitored daily, is managed within the constraints markets.
Recent economic data from the US has been generally positive, of a Board approved policy by the Group Treasury team, and is overseen reflecting an improving 2015 outlook.
This will benefit the Groups expanding by the Group Treasury Committee a sub-Committee of the Financial Risk US operations.
Committee chaired by the CFO.
An update on Group Treasury risks and actions is provided monthly to the Financial Risk Committee and to each The outlook for the Eurozone declined sharply in the second half of 2014, Board Risk Committee.
and there may be a return to the conditions that prevailed during the financial crisis of 2008-12.
The Group mitigates the FX translation exposure created by ownership of overseas businesses by matching, to the extent possible, the currency of Ongoing geopolitical tensions are introducing additional uncertainty Groups debt to the currency of its income streams.
This is supplemented in the markets and may impact investors confidence.
by a programme of active hedging using derivative instruments.
Material foreign currency transactions relate mainly to M&A and dividend related payments and are hedged as required by Policy.
The Group has appropriate contingency plans in place to ensure key technology operations are not dependent on a single geography.
Business Continuity Management BCM and crisis management procedures would be invoked to manage the response to an unexpected event.
For more information, see Market Position and Outlook on pages 8-13, and note 3 to the accounts: Financial Risk Management on pages 127-131.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties 55 RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION Competition We operate in a highly competitive industry.
Continued consolidation Competitive markets are, by their very nature, dynamic, and the effects has fuelled competition including between groups in different of competitor activity can never be fully mitigated.
actively engages with clients and the Group undertakes constant market monitoring and period pricing revision to mitigate risks.
Commercial In Post Trade Services the consolidation of clients has led to a initiatives are aligned with our major clients and this is complemented concentration of revenues.
Any future loss of liquidity or reduction in by an ongoing focus on new technology deployment and cost reduction.
volumes on exchanges may impact clearing and settlement revenues.
The Groups track record of innovation and diversification ensures the In Information Services, consolidation within the industry is expected Group offers best in class services with a global capability.
The Group over the next three to five years.
Client migration to competitors could is focused on integrating acquisitions and delivering tangible synergies lead to a loss of revenue.
from them, supported by robust governance and programme management structures.
In our Capital Markets operations there is a risk that competitors will improve their products, pricing and technology in a way that erodes We maintain a dedicated international marketing team focused on key our businesses.
There is increasing competition for primary listings target markets who promote the benefits of listing on our markets to from other global exchanges and regional centres.
international issuers, the global advisory community and other stakeholders.
In Technology Services, there is intense competition across all activities and there are strong incumbents in some of our growth areas.
Regulatory change The Group and its exchanges, other trading venues, clearing houses, central Changes in the regulatory environment form a key input into our strategic securities depositories, trade repository and other regulated entities operate planning, including the impact on our growth strategies, both organic and in areas that are highly regulated by governmental, competition and inorganic.
We monitor regulatory developments continually and engage regulatory bodies at European and national levels.
directly with regulatory and governmental authorities at national, EU and international levels.
Delivery of the G20 agenda in the EU resulted in a range of measures which may impact our business directly or indirectly including MiFID MiFIR, EMIR, We continue to develop our relationships with key policymakers, particularly CSDR and BRRD.
In addition the European Commission has adopted proposals at EU and national level.
Potential impacts from regulatory change are which are under negotiation in the European Parliament and Council of assessed and, depending on the impact, opportunities are developed and Ministers for the regulation of financial benchmarks, and to address potential mitigating strategies and actions are planned.
issues in the system of credit intermediation shadow banking in relation to Money Market funds MMFs and securities financing transactions SFTs.
As the various regulatory initiatives progress, there will be greater certainty In 2015 it is planning to propose measures for a recovery and resolution about their likely final form.
The Group continues to focus on remaining well framework for CCPs.
Following political agreement of MiFID and MiFIR, positioned to respond to regulatory developments and further opportunities the rule-making work will continue through much of 2015. exist for the Group to deliver solutions to help the market address the changing regulatory environment.
Negotiations also continue on a possible Financial Transaction Tax FTT.
To date it has proved difficult for participating Member States to reach The Groups CCPs are actively engaged in the public debate on CCP recovery and agreement on a number of areas, and the proposed implementation date has resolution and the implications of capital requirements on clearing members.
France and Italy have both implemented a domestic FTT.
The CCPs have focused on the analysis of the potential impact of the new Basel III rules on capital requirements for banks exposure to CCPs.
In general, the ongoing development of prudential regulation including Basel III and the forthcoming CCP Recovery and Resolution legislative proposal could have an impact on our CCP clearing volumes, with implications for the Groups revenues.
Compliance There is a risk that one or more of the Groups entities may fail to comply The Group continues to maintain systems and controls to mitigate with the laws and regulatory requirements to which it is, or becomes, compliance risk.
Compliance Policies and procedures are regularly subject.
In this event, the entity in question may be subject to censures, reviewed to ensure that Group entities and staff are compliant with fines and other regulatory or legal proceedings.
applicable laws and regulations and uphold our corporate standards.
For more information on regulatory changes see Market Position and Outlook on pages 8-13.
56 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties continued RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION Transformation risk The Group is exposed to transformation risks risk of loss or failure resulting The LSEG Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework ensures from change transformation given the current levels of change and alignment appropriate risk management across the Group, and the governance activity taking place across the Group.
As part of the alignment processes the of the enlarged Group is aligned and strengthened as appropriate.
Group targets specific synergy deliveries.
The Group performs regular reporting of change performance, including ongoing alignment activity.
A failure to successfully align the businesses of the Group may lead to an increased cost base without a commensurate increase in revenue: a failure Each major initiative is overseen by a Steering Committee which monitors to capture future product and market opportunities: and risks in respect of the associated risks closely and is typically chaired by the Chief Financial capital requirements, regulatory relationships and management time.
Officer or the Director of Corporate Strategy and includes Executive Committee members.
Regular reports are submitted to the Executive The additional work related to M&A and alignment activities could have an Committee, the Board Risk Committee and the Board.
adverse impact on the Groups day-to-day performance and or key strategic initiatives which could damage the Groups reputation.
The scale and complexity of the recent acquisitions has increased the Groups change management and transformation risks.
Financial Risks The risk of financial failure, reputational loss, loss of earnings and or capital as a result of investment activity, lack of liquidity, funding or capital, and or the inappropriate recording, reporting and disclosure of financial results, taxation and regulatory information.
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION Liquidity risk clearing The Groups CCPs hold a significant amount of cash and securities Group CCPs have put in place EMIR compliant liquidity plans for daydeposited by clearing members as margin or default funds.
To ensure to-day liquidity management, including contingencies for stressed optimum ongoing liquidity and access to funds, the CCPs deposit the conditions.
Group CCPs have multiple layers of defence against liquidity cash received in highly liquid and secure investments, as mandated shortfalls including intraday margin calls, minimum cash balances, by the EMIR regulations.
access to contingent liquidity arrangements, and for certain CCPs, access to central bank liquidity.
Potential liquidity risks faced by the Group CCPs include: Margin payments: Margins are settled at least daily.
The CCPs must Under the ERMF, CCP investments must be made in compliance with ensure that sufficient funds are available to fulfil their obligations the Group CCP Financial Risk Policy as well as the Policies of the CCPs Collateral switches and excess cash margin cover: Members have themselves.
These policies stipulate a number of risk management some flexibility to choose whether to post margin in cash or standards including investment limits secured and unsecured and securities, and may choose to over-collateralise liquidity coverage ratios.
Committees overseeing CCP investment risk Market disruptions: Such as unusual market volatility driving large meet regularly.
margin movements: liquidity squeezes in the cash or securities markets and central bank actions Each CCP monitors its liquidity needs daily using stressed assumptions Failed settlements: Arising when a member fails to deliver securities, and reports to the Group Financial Risk Committee each month.
leaving the CCP short of these securities which may have been designated to meet the obligations of another trade CCP counterparty risk including liquidity management balances and counterparty disintermediation risk is consolidated daily at Group level and reported to the Executive Committee, including limits and status rating.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties 57 RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION Latent market risk clearing Our clearing services guarantee final settlement of trades and manage All our CCPs have been EMIR certified, and are compliant with the EMIR counterparty risk for a range of assets and instruments including cash requirements regarding margin calculations, capital and default rules.
equities, derivatives, energy products, agricultural derivatives, interbank Under the ERMF, CCP latent market risk must be managed in compliance collateralised money loans and Government bonds.
Therefore the Group with the Group CCP Financial Risk Policy as well as policies of the CCPs is exposed to country risk, credit risk, issuer risk, market risk, liquidity risk, themselves.
interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk.
There has been a very significant strengthening of CCP members balance There is a risk that one of the parties to a cleared transaction defaults on sheets over recent years, reducing the risk to LSEG CCPs of a member their obligation: in this circumstance the CCP is obliged to honour the default.
The banks own recovery and resolution plans also provide a contract on the defaulters behalf and thus an unmatched risk position degree of protection to the CCP in the event of a bank becoming troubled.
The CCP may suffer a loss in the process of work-out the Default The financial risks associated with clearing operations are further Management Process if the market moves against the CCPs positions.
mitigated by: Strict CCP membership rules including supervisory capital, technical and organisational criteria.
The maintenance of prudent levels of margin and default funds to cover exposures to participants.
Each member deposits margins, computed at least daily, to cover the theoretical costs which the clearing service would incur in order to close out open positions in the event of the members default.
Clearing members also contribute to default funds.
Regular Fire Drills are carried out to test the operational soundness of the CCPs default management processes.
In 2014 a centralised VaR model was implemented by LSEG, covering key clearing services.
This model consolidates the underlying risk by member across the services in the engine, enabling LSEG to assess cumulative counterparty risks across the CCPs.
This information is consolidated with CCP liquidity management balances and is available daily to the Executive Committee and Board, including limits and RAGs.
Committees overseeing latent market and member risks meet on a regular basis.
Settlement and custodial risks The Group offers post trade services and centralised administration Counterparty risk is mitigated through pre-positioning availability of financial instruments through its Italian CSD subsidiary which offers of security and pre-funding availability of cash.
pre-settlement, settlement and custody services.
These activities carry operational risk and custody risk including asset servicing risk.
Operational risk is minimised via highly automated processes reducing administrative activities and formalised procedures for all services.
The Settlement activities performed in the cross-border context carry CSD mitigates IT risks by providing for redundancy of systems, daily counterparty risk.
The CSD does not provide intra-day settlement backup of data, fully updated remote recovery sites and SLAs with financing to its members.
Liquidity for the CSD operations of Monte Titoli is provided by the Bank of Italy.
For more information on these risks see the Post Trade Services section of the Segmental Review on pages 29-33, and Note 3 to the accounts, Financial Risk Management on pages 127-131.
58 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties continued RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION Capital Management Principal risks to managing the Groups capital are: The Groups Capital Management Policy provides a framework to ensure In respect of regulated entities, capital adequacy compliance risk the Group maintains suitable capital levels both at Group and individual the risk that regulated entities do not maintain and report sufficient subsidiaries levels, and effectively manages the risks thereof.
The Groups qualifying capital to meet regulatory requirements and capital reporting Treasury Policy recognises the need to observe regulatory requirements compliance risk the risk that regulated entities fail to comply with in the management of the Groups resources.
capital reporting and regulatory obligations.
If a regulated entity in the Group fails to ensure sufficient capital resources are maintained to meet The Risk Appetite approved by the Board includes components related regulatory requirements this could lead to loss of regulatory approvals to the Groups leverage ratios and capital risks: Key Risk Indicators are In respect of regulated and unregulated entities, commercial capital monitored regularly.
The Group maintains an ongoing review of the capital adequacy and quality risk the risk that Group and individual subsidiaries positions of its regulated entities and operates within capital limits which do not maintain both sufficient quantity and quality of capital to meet are overseen by the Treasury Committee, the Financial Risk Committee, commercial requirements and investment return risk the risk that the Executive Committee and the Board.
The Group can manage its capital capital is held in subsidiaries or invested in projects that generate a structure by varying returns to shareholders, issuing new shares or return that is below the Groups cost of capital increasing or reducing borrowings.
The Board reviews dividend policy and Availability of debt or equity whether specific to the Group or driven funding capacity on a regular basis and the Group maintains comfortable by general financial market conditions levels of debt facility headroom.
The Group regularly assesses debt and equity markets to maintain access to new capital at reasonable cost.
The Group is mindful of potential impacts on its key metrics when considering changes to its capital structure.
For more information on this risk see Note 3 to the accounts, Financial Risk Management on pages 127-131.
Operational Risk The risk of loss, or other adverse consequences to the business, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION Technology Secure and stable technology performing to high levels of availability The performance and availability of the Group systems are constantly and throughput continues to be critical to the support of the Groups reviewed and monitored to prevent problems arising where possible and businesses.
Technology failures may impact our clients, potentially leading ensure a prompt response to any potential service interruption issues.
to a loss of trading or clearing volumes, impact our information services activities, or the investment management process.
The Groups technology teams mitigate this risk by ensuring prioritisation of all development and operations activities, and resource utilisation and The Group continues to consolidate its IT development and operations in allocation are kept under constant review.
the MillenniumIT infrastructure to provide greater control and efficiency.
This focus of activity means there is a risk of resource over-stretch to meet The MillenniumIT systems are designed to be fault tolerant and both the requirements of the Group and those of third parties.
Continued alternative standby computer facilities are maintained to minimise innovation and investment in new trading information systems can lead the risk of system disruptions.
to further resource stretch in coping with increased volumes and new product development.
The Group actively manages relationships with key strategic IT suppliers to avoid any breakdown in service provision which could adversely affect The Group also has dependencies on a number of third parties for the the Groups businesses.
Where possible the Group has identified alternative provision of hardware, software, communication and networks for suppliers that could be engaged in the event of a third party failing to elements of its trading, clearing, settlement, data and other systems.
deliver on its contractual commitments.
For more information see the Technology Services section of the Segmental Review on pages 38-39.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties 59 RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION Change Management The considerable change agenda is driven by both internal and external The senior management team is focused on the implementation of the factors.
Internal factors include the diversification strategy of the Group Groups strategy and the project pipeline in view of their importance to and its drive for technology innovation and consolidation.
External factors the Groups future success.
Each major project is managed via a dedicated include the changing regulatory landscape and requirements which Programme Board or Steering Committee overseen by members of the necessitate changes to our systems and processes.
There are a significant number of major, complex projects and strategic Software design methodologies, testing regimes and test environments actions under way concurrently, that, if not delivered to sufficiently high are continuously being strengthened to minimise implementation risk.
standards and within agreed timescales, could have an adverse impact on the operation of core services, revenue growth and asset valuation, and damage the Groups reputation.
The volume of simultaneous change could also lead to a loss of client goodwill if the execution is not managed appropriately.
Further, synergies and cost benefits may not be delivered to anticipated levels.
For more information see the Chairmans statement on pages 14 and 15, and the Chief Executives statement on pages 16 and 17.
Investment Management business The Group recently acquired a US Investment Management IM LSEG have commenced the sale process for the Russell IM business business which operates in a heavily regulated segment of the financial following the public announcement of the outcome of the comprehensive services industry.
The Group has received a number of expressions of interest in a potential acquisition of the business from a wide range The comprehensive review of the strategic fit of the Russell Investment of parties, reflecting the high quality of this business and market-leading Management business with the Groups long-term strategy has concluded positions.
Concurrently, a dedicated project team is focused on effecting with the decision to explore a sale.
Risks associated with this include: a separation of the Russell Index and IM businesses to align with a sale of retention of key clients and employees: risks from the process of the IM business.
separating the Russell Index and IM businesses and the ability of the Group to effectively oversee the Investment Management operations We monitor key regulatory developments in each of the jurisdictions where under the Russell pre-acquisition strategic plan.
the Investment Management and its advisory business are active.
We also work closely with industry trade associations and State trade associations Rising global demand for multi-managers single sub-advisor products to promote the interests of our clients.
has resulted in increasing competitive pressures for our Investment Management business.
The generally increasing use of ETFs and other There are in place a number of processes and governance practices that passive investment products also drives competition, which could impact focus on the prudent management of third-party exposure.
Russells the growth of assets under management and fees thereof.
Operational Risk processes include a formalised review of third-party vendors.
Contracting and negotiation are centralised to ensure all The IM business model is reliant on data and services provided by relationships are properly contracted.
Service level agreements, key third-party suppliers in custody, and certain money managers and performance indicators and reviews of the independent control attestations distributors.
In North America, the IM business has established strong of strategic vendors SSAE16s are important elements in the third-party relationships with advisors at independent broker-dealers who distribute supplier control framework.
to individual retail clients and is reliant upon these third-party advisors to ensure that its products are being marketed properly and are well The third-party advisors who distribute our investment products to matched to the needs of the individual clients.
individual retail clients are subject to numerous, increasingly stringent regulations aimed at improving transparency and ensuring that clients In certain asset classes or investment strategies there exist investment are being well served, including applying the more demanding fiduciary manager concentrations, or situations where mandates represent a standards to the relationship between financial advisors and their clients.
substantial portion of a managers AUM.
While the IM business faces little Our IM business has dedicated compliance risk-management personnel direct financial exposure to difficulties that a third-party supplier might in each of its key operating regions to monitor third-party supplier experience, problems experienced by a supplier might expose the Group compliance.
In addition, there is monthly monitoring and reporting to to reputational risk, regulatory risk, and potential litigation risk.
senior management of investment manager concentrations, and regular reviews with third-party investment managers by both the business units and Russells risk management team.
60 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties continued RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION Investment Management business continued The IM business includes a consulting business, the clients of which are The IM business has a number of policies and processes in place to generally very large and sophisticated institutional pension funds or manage the risks associated with its consultancy activities and the Sovereign Wealth Funds, and also a business offering financial services activities of the retail facing business.
directly to retail investors in the UK.
Adverse investment experience for clients of either of these businesses could expose the Group to reputational The consultancy business benefits from access to the same tools and risk or litigation risk.
expertise as the core IM business.
Russells Risk Management team has a programme in place to review the effectiveness of investment models utilised by the Investment Management group and by its consultants in developing investment strategy recommendations.
The formal LSEG Risk plan to embed Russell into Governance and reporting includes all parts of the Russell business.
Group Governance and Risk Management has already been enhanced to provide oversight of the Russell IM business including amendment to the membership of key Risk Oversight Committees both at Russell and LSEG.
An LSEG Head of Risk for the US has been appointed who has oversight of all the US based subsidiaries risks, including monitoring and reporting of key management information to the Group.
Security threats The Group is reliant upon secure premises to protect its employees and Security threats are treated very seriously.
The Group has robust physical physical assets as well as appropriate safeguards to ensure uninterrupted security arrangements, and extensive IT measures to mitigate technical operation of its IT systems and infrastructure.
The threat of cyber crime security risks.
The Group is a member of the Centre for the Protection of requires a high level of scrutiny as it may have an adverse impact on National Infrastructure CPNI, with both physical and IT security teams our business.
Terrorist attacks and similar activities directed against monitoring intelligence and liaising closely with police and global our offices, operations, computer systems or networks could disrupt Government agencies.
our markets, harm staff, tenants and visitors, and severely disrupt our business operations.
Civil or political unrest could impact on companies The Group has well established and regularly tested business continuity within the Group.
The Group risk function assesses its dependencies on critical suppliers and ensures robust contingency Long-term unavailability of key premises or trading and information measures are in place.
outages and corruption of data could lead to the loss of client confidence and reputational damage.
Security risks have escalated in recent years due to the increasing sophistication of cyber crime.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties 61 RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION Employees The calibre, quality and retention of employees are critical to the success The Group operates a performance management and appraisal system, of the Group.
Failure to adequately manage and retain staff resulting in and Executive development opportunities are provided with the unacceptable levels of staff turnover leads to increased costs of attracting Nomination Committee responsible for considering succession replacement staff and undue distraction of senior management time in plans for key senior positions.
The loss of key members of staff could have an adverse impact on the Groups operations and ability to deliver its strategy.
In addition, a programme of succession planning is operated by the Group to minimise the impact of the loss of key staff critical to the The Groups ability to attract and retain high-quality individuals depends operation of the business.
on the condition of recruitment markets and corresponding compensation packages of financial services, technology firms and regulators with which A performance related annual bonus and pay review process is in place the Group competes for the same key staff.
Regular benchmarking of reward and incentive systems is performed to ensure they are competitive.
The Group also offers Long Term Incentive Plans for high performers and critical staff and turnover is closely monitored.
A centralised training budget allows a co-ordinated approach to development across the Group.
We continue to enhance our talent management approach and maintain a rigorous recruitment and selection process.
This process is managed by a new in-house team that reports to the Group Head of Talent.
For more information see Our wider responsibility on pages 40-41, and Remuneration Report on pages 80-109.
