44 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Risk management oversight We are subject to a variety of risks, the management of which The components of the ERMF are as follows: is fundamental to the successful execution of our Strategic Plan.
The Board is responsible for determining the Group Risk Appetite As our Group has grown we have continually enhanced our risk see Risk Management and Internal Control Section page 62. management capabilities to ensure that we maintain our This defines the nature and extent of the risks LSEG is willing to take trajectory while protecting the value of our business.
to achieve its strategic objectives while reinforcing the risk culture.
The Board Risk and Audit Committees have been separated to The LSEG Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework strengthen the oversight provided over Group risk management During FY2014 the Group has further embedded its Enterprise-wide Risk following the acquisition of LCH.
This Framework is designed to allow management and the Board, as part of our business model, to identify The ERMF defines roles and responsibilities for risk management and assess LSEG principal risks and ensure better decision taking by oversight and activities, including for the Board, the Executive informing the Board and other key stakeholders of the key risks related Committee ExCo and sub-Committees thereof.
to the execution of our strategy.
There are three Executive Risk sub-Committees covering financial, operational and new product and market risk to provide the appropriate The ERMF also enables the Board and executive management to maintain, level of risk oversight across the organisation.
and attest to the effectiveness of, the systems of internal control and risk management as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Financial and Operational Risk Committees monitor and report on the financial and operational risk profile of the Group, review and challenge the application of the Group risk framework, recommend risk appetite statements to the Executive Committee and monitor compliance with the relevant risk policies.
The New Product and Market Committee reviews and recommends business cases to the Executive Committee ensuring product innovation and new market risks are appropriately identified and assessed.
LSEGs risk control structure is based on the three lines of defence model: The First line, management, is responsible and accountable for identifying, assessing and managing risk.
LSEG Governance structure Group Committees FIRST LINE SECOND LINE THIRD LINE Functions Line of Business L. O.
B. LSEG Board Risk Audit Committee Committee Executive Financial OperationalNew Products Business Treasury Continuity Board L. O.
& Risk Champions Group Functions Risk Internal Audit STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Risk management oversight 45 The Second line Risk Management and Compliance functions, Risk Identification is responsible for defining the risk management process and policy The Group is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties which may impact framework, and providing challenge to the first line on risk management its ability to execute its strategy and deliver its expected performance.
activities, assessing risks and reporting to the Group Board Committees Group-wide risks are classified into the following three categories: on risk exposure.
Strategic Risks: Risks related to our strategy quality of the strategy, the implementation of strategic initiatives and external threats to the The Third line of defence Internal Audit provides independent achievement of our strategy.
This category also includes the risks assurance to the Board and other key stakeholders over the effectiveness associated with reputation or brand values.
of the systems of controls and the Risk Framework.
Financial Risks: The risks of financial failure, reputational loss, loss of Group-wide risk policies have been enhanced across the whole business.
earnings and or value as a result of investment activity, lack of liquidity, These policies contain the level of risk we are willing to take against our risk funding or capital, and or the inappropriate recording, reporting and appetite statements.
They also set out the principles, minimum standards disclosure of financial results, taxation and regulatory information.
and risk management activities LSEG requires the Groups businesses and functions to follow to manage their business within risk appetite.
Operational Risks: The risk of loss, regulatory censure, or other adverse The Group CCPs are independently managed and have risk policies consequences to the business, resulting from inadequate non-compliant aligned to the high level requirements set in the Group-wide polices.
or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
Strategic Risk Objectives The Group promotes a risk culture that identifies and manages risk at all The Strategic Risk Objectives of the Group have been defined as follows: levels of the business.
We set out clear roles and responsibilities for our Maintaining stable earnings growth: ensuring the strategic growth people within our risk policies to ensure risks are consistently identified and of the business is delivered in a controlled manner with long term value captured across the Group.
enhancement and low volatility to the underlying profitability of the Group.
Risks are identified at source and recorded in each business unit and division Maintaining capital requirements: ensuring the Group has sufficient by Risk Champions.
These are employees in the business responsible for capital resources to meet regulatory requirements, to cover unexpected facilitating the application of the Group risk management framework.
Risk losses and to meet the Groups strategic ambitions.
identification is regularly reviewed and challenged by the risk function to Maintaining liquidity: the Group retains or has adequate access ensure completeness.
For high velocity, high impact risks, Key Risk Indicators to funding to meet its obligations taking into account the availability KRIs are established to enable the business to monitor the risk on an of funds.
Adhering to regulatory requirements: the Group conducts activities at all times in full compliance with its regulatory obligations.
Maintaining operational stability, facilitating orderly market operations: the Groups operations are delivered in a secure and efficient manner without disruption.
Maintaining stakeholder confidence: to ensure that stakeholders have confidence in the ability of the Group to deliver its strategic objectives with robust and effective governance and operational controls.
Maintaining a risk aware culture throughout the Group: ensuring the risk management framework is embedded within Divisions and Functions engendering a risk aware culture.
Risk Appetite LSEG defines Risk Appetite as the level of risk that the Group is prepared to sustain in pursuit of its Strategic Objectives.
The Group Risk Appetite Statement is proposed by the Executive Committee, is approved by the Board on at least an annual basis and is determined in conjunction with the Groups overall business strategy.
The risk appetite can be modified by the Board at any time details on page 62.
46 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Risk management oversight continued Risk Assessment Risk Management The risk identification and assessment process allows for the monitoring of risk Each Group-level risk is owned by a member of the Executive Committee who trends and management actions at all levels and also facilitates the decision is responsible for managing or mitigating the risk in order to remain within making process.
Management is required to escalate and take mitigating risk appetite.
The Board and the Risk Committee receive presentations on actions in respect of incidents, control failures and policy breaches as and material risks and related mitigants as appropriate.
In addition, the Group regularly performs bottom-up and top-down risk assessments, with risks identified at legal entity, divisional Risk Reporting Monitoring and Group levels.
Divisional and entity level risk reports are reviewed by the The risk profile of the Group is reported to the Board via the Risk Committee Operational Risk Committee: Group risk reports are reviewed by the Executive quarterly.
Risk reporting across the Group is aligned to the Risk Committee Committee each quarter and are also reviewed by the Risk Committee RC at governance structure and is divided between financial and operational risk.
least three times a year and by the Board at least twice a year.
Quantitative and qualitative risk limits and tolerances, identified within the overarching Group Risk appetite statement, form the basis of the key Financial risks are monitored and managed on a frequent basis daily for reporting metrics used across the Group.
key risks at the Business Unit level and across the Group in aggregate.
Financial Risk Reporting CCP liquidity management balances and Thresholds for capital sufficiency, capital commitments and limits in respect counterparty disintermediation risk is consolidated daily at the Group level of various aspects of treasury management are set out in the Group Capital and reported to the Executive Committee and Board, including limits and and Treasury policies.
An enhanced weekly report including market commentary and member health monitoring is distributed to the Executive Committee CCP risks are assessed according to the metrics determined both by the and to certain Board members.
CCPs and also by the Group, including Group-level risk appetite and key risk Extensive financial risk reports are produced for the Financial Risk indicators for clearing related activities.
Significant new products, and proposed initiatives in new markets, are now Operational Risk Reporting Business units produce a risk register on a reviewed by the New Product Market Committee prior to approval by the quarterly basis considering the key residual risks facing their business Executive Committee.
Group risk consolidates and reports this information to the Groups Operational Risk Committee on a quarterly basis.
The Reports of the Audit and of the Risk Committees, on pages 66-69, provide details on the work carried out to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for risk management and systems of internal control.
LSEG Risk Pillars STRATEGIC RISK Earnings & Stakeholder confidence FINANCIAL RISK OPERATIONAL RISK Capital Liquidity Regulation Operational Stability Risk Culture STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Risk management oversight 47 The Group Risk Report is produced on a quarterly basis and presents the Groups aggregate risk profile Operational and Financial to the Board via the Risk Committee.
This report considers the key residual risks facing the Group, aggregated across all the Groups subsidiaries.
CCP financial risks are monitored both at the CCP level and centrally according to the specific quantitative metrics set out in the CCP Financial Risk Policy, including Group-level risk appetite and key risk indicators for clearing related activities.
Reporting requirements for capital sufficiency, capital commitments and various aspects of treasury management are set out in the Group Capital and Treasury policies.
Business Continuity Management BCM The Group has a BCM framework in place which is managed and maintained through a fully established Business Continuity Programme.
The Business Continuity Programme is overseen by the Business Continuity Board, a sub-committee of the Operational Risk Committee.
The Business Continuity Board receives the self certification results of all the Groups Business areas which define the status of Business Continuity within each business area.
The BCM Board regularly challenges the request from all the business areas.
The Risk Committee and the Audit Committee are regularly updated as to the status and progress of the Business Continuity Programme.
