48 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties Overview of Principal Risks: Strategic Risks Financial Risks Operational Risks Global economy Liquidity risk Clearing Technology Competition Latent market risk Clearing Change management Regulatory change and compliance Settlement and custodial risks Security threats Transformation risk Capital management Employees Strategic Risks Risks related to our strategy including the implementation of strategic initiatives and external threats to the achievement of our strategy.
The category also includes risks associated with reputation or brand values.
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION Global economy The improving economic environment in the UK has had a positive impact on The Group performs regular analyses to monitor the markets and the the Groups business, and has increased the activity on our primary markets.
potential impacts on the business.
Activities include Key Risk Indicator tracking, stress testing, and a hedging strategy.
There are concerns caused by persistently low inflation levels in the Eurozone and mixed economic indicators.
Ongoing geopolitical tensions The Financial Risk Committee closely monitors and analyses multiple are introducing additional uncertainty in the markets and may impact market scenarios and action plans in order to minimise the potential investors confidence.
impacts stemming from a potential deterioration of the macroeconomic environment.
The Eurozone crisis and geopolitical concerns are regular items on the agenda of the Financial Risk Committee and the Groups exposure to these risks is closely monitored.
In Sri Lanka the Group maintains regular contact with key Governmental parties, and has appropriate contingency plans in place to ensure key technology operations are not dependent on a single geography.
Business Continuity Management BCM and crisis management procedures would be invoked to manage the response to an unexpected event.
For more information, see Market Position and Outlook, pages 8-13, and note 2 to the accounts: Financial Risk Management on pages 113-117.
Competition We operate in a highly competitive industry.
Continued consolidation Competitive markets are, by their very nature, dynamic, and the effects has fuelled competition including between groups in different of competitor activity can never be fully mitigated.
actively engages with clients and the Group undertakes constant market monitoring and period pricing revision to mitigate risks.
Commercial In our Capital Markets operations there is a risk that competitors will initiatives are aligned with our major clients and this is complemented improve their products, pricing and technology in a way that erodes by an ongoing focus on new technology deployment and cost reduction.
There is increasing competition for primary listings from other global exchanges and regional centres.
The Groups track record of innovation and diversification ensures the Group offers best in class services with a global capability.
In Post Trade Services the consolidation of clients has led to a concentration of revenues.
Any future loss of liquidity or reduction in We maintain a dedicated international marketing team focused on key target volumes on exchanges may impact clearing revenues.
markets who promote the benefits of listing on our markets to international issuers, the global advisory community and other stakeholders.
In Information Services, consolidation within the industry is expected over the next three to five years.
Client migration to competitors could lead to a loss of revenue.
In Technology Services, there is intense competition across all activities and there are strong market players in some areas where we are establishing a presence.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties 49 RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION Regulatory change Regulatory change The Group and its exchanges, CCPs and other regulated entities operate in Changes in the regulatory environment form a key input into our strategic industries that are highly, and increasingly, regulated by governmental, planning, including the impact on our growth strategies, both organic and competition and regulatory bodies at European, federal, national and inorganic.
We monitor regulatory developments continually and engage provincial levels.
directly with regulatory and governmental authorities at a national, EU and international level.
Delivery of the G20 agenda in the EU has resulted in a large number of measures which may impact our business directly or indirectly.
The European We continue to develop our relationships with the key political stakeholders, Commission has adopted proposals for the regulation of financial benchmarks: particularly at EU and national level.
Potential impacts from regulatory to address potential issues in the system of credit intermediation shadow change are assessed and, depending on the impact, opportunities are banking, by issuing Regulations on Money Market funds MMFs and securities developed and mitigating strategies and actions are planned.
Towards the end of 2014, it is planning to propose measures for resolving CCPs.
Following political agreement of MiFID As the various regulatory initiatives progress, there will be greater certainty and MiFIR, the rule-making work will continue through much of 2014. about their likely final form.
The Group continues to focus on remaining well positioned to respond to regulatory developments and further opportunities In the UK, the financial services industry has been operating under a new exist for the Group to deliver solutions to help the market address the regulatory structure since 1 April 2013 with the FSA being replaced by three changing regulatory environment.
separate regulatory bodies: the Bank of England, the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
These bodies The implications of capital requirements on clearing members have been are now well-established and are pursuing a policy of proactive regulation.
analysed and future actions put in place.
For example the FCA has recently consulted on its new remit in relation to Competition Law.
The CCPs have performed analytical work to test the methodologies proposed by the Basel framework and have contributed to the consultations launched The CCPs have focused on the analysis of the potential impact of the by the BCBS.
new Basel III rules on capital requirements for banks exposure to CCPs.
This could have an impact on the clearing volumes, with implications for the Groups revenues.
Compliance Compliance There is a risk that one or more of the Groups entities may fail to comply The Group continues to maintain systems and controls to mitigate compliance with the laws and regulatory requirements to which it is, or becomes, risk.
Compliance policies and procedures are regularly reviewed to ensure that subject.
In this event, the entity in question may be subject to censures, Group entities and staff are compliant with applicable laws and regulations fines and other regulatory or legal proceedings.
and uphold our corporate standards.
For more information on regulatory changes see Market Position and Outlook on pages 10-13.
Transformation risk The Group is exposed to transformation risks risk of loss or failure resulting The governance of the enlarged Group is aligned and strengthened as from change transformation given the current levels of change and alignment appropriate.
The Group performs regular reporting of change performance, activity currently taking place across the Group.
As part of the alignment including ongoing alignment activity.
LSEG has set up a programme processes the Group targets specific cost savings and revenue increases.
management framework to deliver the LCH.
Clearnet transaction objectives which includes close implementation oversight by an executive team A failure to successfully align the businesses of the Group may lead to an representative of LSEG and LCH.
Clearnet: this steering group includes the increased cost base without a commensurate increase in revenue: a failure LSEG Group CFO, CRO and COO as well as the LCH Group CEO, CFO and CRO.
to capture future product and market opportunities: and risks in respect of capital requirements, regulatory relationships and management time.
The LSEG Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework covers the whole With regards to M&A and alignment activities, the additional projects and Group, including LCH.
Clearnet, and was designed to ensure appropriate risk workstreams could have an adverse impact on day-to-day performance management across the whole of the enlarged Group.
and or key strategic initiatives and could damage the Groups reputation.
The scale and complexity of the LCH.
Clearnet business as part of the Group has contributed to an increase in the risk profile associated with change management and transformation risk.
50 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Financial Risks The risk of financial failure, reputational loss, loss of earnings and or capital as a result of investment activity, lack of liquidity, funding or capital, and or the inappropriate recording, reporting and disclosure of financial results, taxation and regulatory information.
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION Liquidity risk clearing The Groups clearing providers hold a significant amount of cash and Under the ERMF, CCP investments must be made in compliance with the securities deposited by clearing members as margin or default funds.
Group CCP Financial Risk Policy as well as Policies issued pursuant to the To ensure optimum ongoing liquidity and immediate access to funds, governance of the CCPs themselves.
These Policies stipulate a number of the CCPs deposit the cash received in highly liquid and secure investments, risk management standards including concentration limits and minimum as mandated by the EMIR regulations.
Committees overseeing CCP investment risk meet regularly.
Potential liquidity risks faced by the Group CCPs include: Group CCPs have put in place EMIR compliant liquidity plans for day-to-day Margin payments: Margins Initial and Variation are settled at least liquidity management, including contingencies for stressed conditions.
The CCPs must ensure that sufficient funds are available to fulfil Group CCPs have multiple layers of defence against liquidity shortfall their obligations.
including minimum cash balances, access to contingent liquidity Collateral switches and excess cash margin cover: Members can choose arrangements and for certain CCPs, access to central bank liquidity.
whether to post margin in cash or securities, and may choose to over-collateralise.
CCP liquidity management balances and counterparty disintermediation Market disruptions: Such as unusual market volatility driving large risk is consolidated daily at the Group level and reported to the Executive margin movements: liquidity squeezes in the cash or securities Committee and Board, including limits and status rating.
An enhanced markets and central bank actions.
report including market commentary and member health monitoring is Failed cash settlements: Arising, for instance, from mismatches in produced each week and distributed to the LSEG Executive Committee settlement dates for the CCPs own activities.
All four group CCPs report their liquidity position via the Group Financial Risk Committee each month.
Each CCP monitors liquidity needs daily under stressed and unstressed assumptions.
Breaches, if any, are reported and discussed monthly at the Committee.
Latent market risk clearing Our clearing services guarantee final settlement of trades and manage Under the ERMF, CCP latent market risk must be managed in compliance counterparty risk for a range of assets and instruments including cash with the Group CCP Financial Risk Policy as well as policies issued pursuant equities, derivatives, energy products and Government bonds.
Therefore to the governance of the CCPs themselves.
Latent market risk is part of the the Group is exposed to country risk, credit risk, issuer risk, market risk, agenda of the CCP risk Committees.
liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk.
The financial risks associated with clearing operations are mitigated by: There is a risk that one of the parties to a cleared transaction defaults on Strict CCP membership rules including supervisory capital, technical their obligation: in this circumstance the CCP is obliged to honour the and organisational criteria.
contract on the defaulters behalf and thus an unmatched risk position The maintenance of prudent levels of margin and default funds arises.
The CCP may suffer a loss in the process of work-out the Default to cover exposures to participants.
Each member pays margins, Management Process if the market moves against the CCPs positions.
computed at least daily, to cover the theoretical costs which the clearing service would incur in order to close out open positions in the event of the members default.
Clearing members also contribute to default funds.
CCP liquidity management balances and counterparty disintermediation risk is consolidated daily at the Group level and reported to the Executive Committee and Board, including limits and RAGs.
An enhanced report including market commentary and member health monitoring is produced each week and distributed to the Executive Committee and Board.
Committees overseeing latent market and member risks meet on a regular basis.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties 51 RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION Settlement and custodial risks The Group offers post trade services and centralised administration of Asset commitment risk is mitigated through pre-positioning availability financial instruments through its CSD subsidiary, Monte Titoli.
Monte Titoli of security and pre-funding availability of cash.
offers pre-settlement, settlement and custody services.
These activities carry counterparty risk in particular asset commitment risk, operational Operational risk is minimised via highly automated processes reducing risk and custody risk including asset servicing risk.
administrative activities and formalised procedures for all services.
Monte Titoli mitigates IT risks by providing for redundancy of systems, daily Monte Titoli does not provide intraday settlement financing to backup of data, fully updated remote recovery sites and SLAs with its members.
Liquidity for Monte Titolis operations is provided by the Bank of Italy.
For more information on these risks see the Post Trade Services section of the Segmental Review on pages 28-31, and Note 2 to the accounts, Financial Risk Management on pages 113-117.
Capital Risk The Group incorporates a number of regulated and unregulated entities The Groups Capital Management Policy provides a framework to ensure within its structure.
Principal risks to managing its capital are: the Group maintains suitable capital levels both at Group and solo entity In respect of regulated entities, capital adequacy compliance risk levels, and effectively manages the risks thereof.
The Groups Treasury the risk that regulated entities do not maintain and report sufficient Policy recognises the need to observe regulatory requirements in the qualifying capital to meet regulatory requirements and capital management of the Groups resources.
reporting compliance risk the risk that regulated entities fail to comply with capital reporting and regulatory obligations.
If a regulated The Group maintains an ongoing review of the capital positions of its entity in the Group fails to ensure sufficient capital resources are regulated entities and operates within capital limits which are overseen maintained to meet regulatory requirements this could lead to loss by the Treasury Committee, the Financial Risk Committee, the Executive of regulatory approvals.
In respect of regulated and unregulated entities, commercial capital adequacy and quality risk the risk that Group and solo entities do not The Group can manage its capital structure by varying returns to maintain both sufficient quantity and quality of capital to meet shareholders, issuing new shares or increasing or reducing borrowings.
commercial requirements and investment return risk the risk that The Board reviews dividend policy and funding capacity on a regular basis capital is held in subsidiaries or invested in projects that generate a and the Group maintains comfortable levels of debt facility headroom.
return that is below the Groups cost of capital.
Availability of debt or equity whether specific to the Group or driven The Group makes regular assessments of debt and equity market by general financial market conditions.
To maintain sufficient financial strength to access new capital at reasonable cost, and meet its objective of maintaining an investment grade credit rating.
The Group is mindful of potential impacts on its key metrics when considering changes to its capital structure.
For more information on this risk see Note 2 to the accounts, Financial Risk Management on pages 113-117.
52 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational Risk The risk of loss, or other adverse consequences to the business, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION Technology Secure and stable technology performing to high levels of availability The performance and availability of the Group systems are constantly and throughput continues to be critical to the support of the Groups reviewed and monitored to prevent problems arising where possible and businesses.
Technology failures impact our clients and can potentially ensure a prompt response to any potential service interruption issues.
lead to a loss of trading and clearing volumes and adversely impact the The Groups technology teams mitigate this risk by ensuring prioritisation Groups reputation and brand.
of all development and operations activities, and resource utilisation and allocation are kept under constant review.
The Group continues to consolidate its IT development and operations in the MillenniumIT infrastructure to provide greater control and efficiency.
The MillenniumIT systems are designed to be fault tolerant and alternative This focus of activity means there is a risk of resource over-stretch to meet standby computer facilities are maintained to minimise the risk of both the requirements of the Group and those of third parties.
innovation and investment in new trading information systems can lead to further resource stretch in coping with increased volumes and new The robust change management procedures and capacity monitoring product development.
provide assurance that Group technology changes are effectively managed.
The Group also has dependencies on a number of third parties for the The Group actively manages relationships with key strategic IT suppliers to provision of hardware, software, communication and networks for avoid any breakdown in service provision which could adversely affect the elements of its trading, clearing, data and other systems.
Where possible the Group has identified alternative suppliers that could be engaged in the event of a third party failing to deliver on its contractual commitments.
For more information see the Technology Services section of the Segmental Review, on pages 34 and 35.
Clearnet see section of the Segmental Review on pages 30 and 31.
Change management The considerable change agenda is driven by both internal and external The senior management team is focused on the implementation of the factors.
Internal factors include the diversification strategy of the Group Groups strategy and the project pipeline in view of their importance to and its drive for technology innovation and consolidation.
External factors the Groups future success.
Each major project is managed via a dedicated include the changing regulatory landscape and requirements which project office overseen by members of the Executive Committee.
necessitate changes to our systems and processes.
Software design methodologies, testing regimes and test environments are continuously being strengthened to minimise implementation risk.
There are a significant number of major, complex projects and strategic actions underway concurrently, that, if not delivered to sufficiently high standards and within agreed timescales, could have an adverse impact on the operation of core services, and revenue growth, as well as damaging the Groups reputation.
The volume of simultaneous change could also lead to a loss of client goodwill if the execution is not managed appropriately.
Synergies and cost benefits may not be delivered to anticipated levels.
For more information see the Chairmans statement, on pages 14 and 15, and the Chief Executives review, on pages 16 and 17.
Security threats The Group is reliant upon secure premises to protect its employees and Security threats are treated very seriously.
The Group has robust physical physical assets as well as appropriate safeguards to ensure uninterrupted security arrangements, and extensive IT measures are in place to mitigate operation of its IT systems and infrastructure.
The threat of cyber crime technical security risks.
The Group is a member of the Centre for the requires a high level of scrutiny as it may have an adverse impact on our Protection of National Infrastructure CPNI, with both physical and IT business.
Terrorist attacks and similar activities directed against our security teams monitoring intelligence and liaising closely with police offices, operations, computer systems or networks could disrupt our and global Government agencies.
markets, harm staff, tenants and visitors, and severely disrupt our business operations.
Civil or political unrest could impact on companies within The Group has well established and regularly tested business continuity the Group.
The Group risk function assesses its dependencies on critical suppliers and ensures robust contingency Long-term unavailability of key premises or trading and information measures are in place.
outages and corruption of data could lead to the loss of client confidence and reputational damage.
Security risks have escalated in recent years due to the increasing sophistication of cyber crime.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties 53 RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION Employees The calibre, quality and retention of employees are critical to the success The Group operates a performance management and appraisal system, of the Group.
Failure to adequately manage and retain staff resulting in and Executive development opportunities are provided with the unacceptable levels of staff turnover leads to increased costs of attracting Nominations Committee responsible for considering succession plans replacement staff and undue distraction of senior management time in for key senior positions.
The loss of key members of staff could have an adverse impact on the Groups operations and ability to deliver its strategy.
A performance related annual bonus and pay review process is in place for all employees.
Regular benchmarking of reward and incentive systems The Groups ability to attract and retain high quality individuals depends on is performed to ensure they are competitive.
The Group also offers Long the condition of recruitment markets and corresponding compensation Term Incentive Plans for high performers and critical staff and turnover is packages of financial services, technology firms and regulators with which monitored.
A centralised training budget allows a co-ordinated approach the Group competes for the same key staff.
to development across the Group.
A programme of succession planning is operated by the Group to minimise the impact of the loss of key staff critical to the operation of the business.
We have also enhanced our talent management approach in the last year and will keep doing so while rolling out our succession plans and HR systems to LCH.
Clearnet during the next 12 months.
For more information see Our wider responsibility, on pages 36 and 37 and Remuneration Report, on pages 70-97.
