50 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Risk management oversight The management of risk is fundamental to the successful execution of our Strategic Plan.
As our Group has grown we have enhanced our risk management capabilities to maintain our trajectory while protecting the value of our business.
LSEGs Risk Culture Adhering to regulatory requirements: the Group conducts activities LSEG is a widely, and increasingly, diversified financial infrastructure Group.
at all times in full compliance with its regulatory obligations As the Group has grown and the regulatory environment has become more Maintaining operational stability, facilitating orderly market complex, we have changed to meet the challenges of the post-crisis markets.
operations: the Groups operations are delivered in a secure and Whilst our formal risk framework codifies the set of objectives and practices efficient manner without disruption that govern our processes, our risk culture underpins the manner in which we actually manage risks every day.
Maintaining stakeholder confidence: the Groups stakeholders have confidence in its ability to deliver its strategic objectives with robust Our management culture embeds risk awareness, transparency and and effective governance and operational controls accountability: a strong emphasis is placed internally on reporting risk Maintaining a risk aware culture throughout the Group: the risk exposures in a timely manner.
LSEG has an extensive suite of risk policies management framework is embedded within divisions and functions that employees are required to comply with, in addition to applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
All LSEG employees are required to undergo Group Risk Appetite mandatory training on key policies and all Group businesses are required In 2014 LSEG formalised its Risk Appetite, defined as the level of risk that the to attest twice per year that the Groups policies and procedures have been Group is prepared to sustain in pursuit of its strategic objectives.
The Group complied with and that any exceptions have been escalated in accordance Risk Appetite Statement proposed by the Executive Committee, is approved with the Groups risk framework.
by the Board on at least an annual basis and is determined in conjunction with the Groups Strategy.
The components of Risk Appetite that relate to CCPs Strategic Risk Objectives are also approved by the Boards of each CCP within the Group, in compliance LSEGs Strategic Risk Objectives derive from the strategy of the Group, which with EMIR and other applicable regulations.
is defined annually by the Board.
The risk objectives of the Group are as follows: Maintaining stable earnings growth: the strategic growth of the The Group Risk Appetite is cascaded down to each business unit so that business is delivered in a controlled manner with long-term value operational limits can be derived: the business units aggregate Risk Appetites enhancement and low volatility of underlying profitability cannot be greater than the Group Risk Appetite.
Regular reporting at both Maintaining capital requirements: the Group has sufficient capital Group and Business Unit BU levels uses Risk Appetite as a benchmark.
resources to meet regulatory requirements, to cover unexpected losses and to meet the Groups strategic ambitions Risks that are outside Risk Appetite are escalated to the appropriate Risk Committee.
The Risk Appetite status is also reported to the Risk Committee Maintaining liquidity: the Group retains or has adequate access to and to the Board for all aggregated Group risks.
funding to meet its obligations, taking into account the availability of funds LSEG Risk Pillars STRATEGIC RISK Earnings & Stakeholder confidence FINANCIAL RISK OPERATIONAL RISK Capital Liquidity Regulation Operational Stability Risk Culture STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Risk management oversight 51 Risk Appetite Statements Risk Governance LSEGs risks are classified into the following three categories: The LSEG Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework ERMF Strategic Risks: Risks related to our strategy quality of the strategy, The ERMF is designed to allow management and the Board to identify and the implementation of strategic initiatives and external threats to the assess LSEGs risks and to ensure better decision taking in the execution of its achievement of our strategy.
This category also includes the risks strategy.
It also enables the Board and executive management to maintain, associated with reputation or brand values and attest to the effectiveness of, the systems of internal control and risk management as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Financial Risks: The risks of financial failure, loss of earnings and or value as a result of investment activity, lack of liquidity, funding or capital, During 2014 the Group has further developed and embedded the ERMF by: and or the inappropriate recording, reporting and disclosure of financial Approving and rolling out the Group Risk Appetite, including measurable results, taxation and regulatory information metrics quantitative and qualitative Operational Risks: The risk of loss, regulatory censure, or other adverse Developing Key Risk Indicators by which to monitor the risks against consequences to the business, resulting from inadequate non-compliant the Appetite or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events Appointing a Head of US Risk, reporting to the Chief Risk Officer, The Group Risk Appetite is broken into three pillars see diagram on page 50 : to reflect the growing presence of the Group in North America For each of the three categories of risk above the Board has defined Designing, building and implementing a Group-wide centralised a high-level, qualitative, Risk Appetite Statement CCP counterparty risk VaR model which produces daily risk analysis For each individual risk within each category the Board has further for the Executive and Board across the Groups key clearing services defined a specific Group-level Risk Appetite, derived from the high Integrating the newly-acquired Russell Investments business into level Appetite, and articulated with a combination of qualitative and our regular risk assessment and reporting processes quantitative measures Each business line and division defines its own Risk Appetite, derived Three Lines of Defence from the Group Risk Appetite and approved through its own Governance LSEGs risk control structure is based on the three lines of defence model: process where appropriate The First line Management, is responsible and accountable for identifying, assessing and managing risk From each component of the business level Risk Appetites a set of subsidiary The Second line Risk Management and Compliance, is responsible for quantitative Key Risk Indicators KRIs and limits or thresholds is derived.
defining the risk management process and policy framework, providing These metrics directly relate to the day-to-day management of our challenge to the first line on risk management activities, assessing risks businesses, and are the basis of the formal quarterly risk reporting.
and reporting to the Group Board Committees on risk exposure The Third line Internal Audit, provides independent assurance to the Board and other key stakeholders over the effectiveness of the systems of controls and the Risk Framework Risk Management Cycle Risk Management Cycle Business The Risk Management Cycle summarises the key steps of the ERMF, Strategy instrumental to balance the delivery of the Groups strategy in a controlled environment.
Risk management activity supports the Business Strategy business strategy The business strategy is reviewed at least once a year and is supported by risk analysis that indicates the risk level associated with each key strategic initiative.
Sensitivity analysis together with scenario testing are used to define Risk Risk financial projections supporting the business strategy.
It is managements Monitoring Appetite responsibility to identify and assess the risks and opportunities related to Monitor and report The level of risk the overall business strategy and to the Groups strategic initiatives.
They also on our risks that LSEG is willing have the responsibility to identify actions that would ensure the successful to accept in pursuit delivery of the business strategy or identify trigger conditions that would of our strategy necessitate a review of the strategy itself.
Risk management activity supports the delivery of the Groups strategy by providing a framework which facilitates the identification of strategic risks and opportunities and areas for challenge Risk Risk in establishing risk mitigating actions across the whole spectrum of financial, Capture Policies operational and, more generally, enterprise-wide risks.
Identify all of key Minimum The Board reviews and approves the business strategy and associated risks risk exposures standards for our and mitigation plans on a yearly basis and all substantial changes thereafter.
people and monitor compliance 52 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Risk management oversight continued Risk Appetite Financial Risk Reporting Accounting statements published by the The Board approved Risk Appetite sets out acceptable risk levels to be taken in Group are the result of a consolidation of the financial data of a number delivering the Groups strategy.
Business strategy downside scenarios as well of businesses.
Rigorous reviews of accounting methodologies take place as strategic initiative risks are all supported by remedial management action as part of alignment plans for any business being acquired by the Group.
plans and are used to define the risk appetite and tolerances at a macro level.
These reviews are designed to enable consistency in the statement of The Risks Appetite Statements cover all significant risks of the Group: strategic, accounts of each business, which are then consolidated into the Groups financial and operational with an implicit focus on reputational risk.
All financial statements need to be approved by the responsible business executive and further validated by LSEGs Board of Directors LSEGs Risk Appetite limits and tolerances are used as indicators to assess Operational Risk Reporting Business units produce a quarterly risk its risk culture.
Group Risk consolidates and reports this information to the Group Operational Risk Committee The Group Risk Appetite is cascaded down to each business unit and in aggregate their risk appetites cannot be greater than the Group Risk Appetite.
Significant new products and proposed initiatives in new markets are reviewed by the New Product Market Committee prior to approval by Risk Policies the Executive Committee LSEGs Group-wide risk policies establish the principles, minimum standards The Group Risk Report is produced quarterly and presents the Groups and risk management activities LSEG requires the Groups businesses and aggregate risk profile to the Board via the Risk Committee.
This report functions to follow to manage their business within Risk Appetite.
Each policy highlights the key residual risks facing the Group, aggregated across contains the following: all the Groups subsidiaries The risk definition and KRIs where appropriate Reporting requirements for capital sufficiency, capital commitments Risk Appetite and Tolerances in line with the Group Risk and various aspects of treasury management are set out in the Group Appetite Statements Capital and Treasury Policies Minimum Standards & Risk Management Activities CCP Risk Management The relevant Oversight Committee of the Policy and a Sponsor The Groups CCPs are managed in accordance with our ERMF, which includes and Owner of the Policy a CCP Financial Risk Policy.
In addition, the Board-mandated Group-wide Risk Appetite Statement contains a CCP specific Risk Appetite component.
This Risk Capture promotes consistency in the oversight of our clearing risks whilst protecting The Group promotes a risk culture that encourages the management of risk the independence of the CCPs risk management processes as required by at all levels.
We set out clear roles and responsibilities for our people within relevant regulation.
our Risk Policies to ensure risks are consistently identified and captured across the Group.
The Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures PFMI produced by 1 CPMIIOSCO provide the foundation for CCP risk management.
Under the Risks are identified at source and recorded by Risk Champions who are PFMI, LSEG CCPs must maintain financial resources sufficient to cover the responsible for facilitating the application of the Group risk management simultaneous default of the two largest participants, and their affiliates the framework in each business unit and division.
Risk identification is regularly so-called Cover 2 requirement, even in extreme but plausible circumstances.
reviewed and challenged by the risk function to ensure completeness.
Key Risk Indicators are formally established to enable the businesses to monitor The PFMI provide the minimum risk management standards that a risk on an ongoing basis.
CCP should apply: however, LSEG CCPs apply more stringent standards.
For example, the methodology for calculating the initial margin that a CCP Risk Monitoring should collect from its members is set in the PFMI, which require a minimum The risk profile of the Group is reported to the Board via the quarterly 99 per cent confidence level 99.5 per cent under EMIR for OTC products.
LSEGs policy is to apply a confidence level of at least 99.5 per cent across CCP financial risks are monitored both at the CCP level and centrally all clearing services.
according to the specific quantitative metrics set out in the CCP Financial Risk Policy, including Group-level risk appetite and Key Risk Indicators There has been a very significant strengthening of CCP members balance for clearing related activities.
CCP liquidity risk and counterparty sheets over recent years, reducing the risk to LSEG CCPs of a member disintermediation risk are consolidated daily at Group level and reported default.
The banks own recovery and resolution plans also provide a degree to the Executive Committee, including limits and Risk Appetite.
An of protection to the CCP in the event of a bank becoming troubled.
The enhanced weekly report including market commentary and member financial risks associated with clearing operations are further mitigated by: health monitoring is distributed to the Executive Committee and to Strict CCP membership rules including supervisory capital, technical certain Board members.
Extensive CCP financial risk reports are produced and organisational criteria for the Financial Risk Committee each month The maintenance of prudent levels of margin and default funds to cover exposures to participants.
Each member deposits margins, computed at least daily, to cover the theoretical costs which the clearing service would incur in order to close out open positions in the event of the members default.
Clearing members also contribute to default funds 1 Committee on Payment and Market Infrastructures and International Organisation of Securities Commissions.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Risk management oversight 53 In 2014 a centralised VaR model was implemented by LSEG, covering key The New Product and Market Committee reviews and recommends clearing services.
This model consolidates the underlying risk by members business cases to the Executive Committee ensuring product innovation across the services in the engine, enabling LSEG to assess cumulative and new market risks are appropriately identified and assessed counterparty risks across the CCPs.
This information is consolidated with Each Group-level risk is owned by a member of the Executive Committee who CCP liquidity management balances and is available daily to the Executive is responsible for managing or mitigating the risk in order to remain within Committee, including limits and ratings.
The Board and the Risk Committee receive presentations on material risks and related mitigants as appropriate.
All of LSEGs CCPs are subject to the Group Risk Appetite which includes components specifically developed for CCP risks, including operational The Reports of the Audit and of the Risk Committees, on pages 74-79, provide limits and KRIs.
As well as being managed by the CCPs own independent details on the work carried out to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight processes, CCPs risks are reported to and overseen by the Executive responsibilities for risk management and systems of internal control.
Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
Risk Management Outlook LSEG Risk Governance structure The year ahead will bring the twin challenges of a rapidly growing business The Risk Governance of the Group is as follows: and accelerated regulatory change against a backdrop of heightened The Board is responsible for determining the Group Risk Appetite see volatility in the markets that we serve: above.
The Board Risk Committee and the Audit Committee receive Our acquisition of Frank Russell Company accelerates our geographic regular reports presenting the aggregate risks of the whole Group expansion in the US, the worlds largest financial services market.
measured against the Appetite This positions the Group for a long-term leading role in global The ERMF defines roles and responsibilities for risk management market infrastructure oversight and activities, including for the Board, the Executive There will be a sizeable implementation impact arising from MiFID and Committee and sub-Committees thereof MiFIR, affecting most if not all of the Groups operations as well as those The Financial and Operational Risk Committees monitor and report of our users and customers on the risk profile of the Group: review and challenge the application The outlook for the eurozone declined sharply in the second half of 2014: of the Group risk framework: recommend Risk Appetite Statements ongoing geopolitical tensions are introducing additional uncertainty in to the Executive Committee and monitor compliance with the relevant the markets and may impact investors confidence risk policies The Group has a Business Continuity Management framework in place Going forward we will continue to strengthen our risk management by which is managed and maintained through a fully established Business building on the frameworks we have put in place.
Accordingly we believe Continuity Programme.
The Business Continuity Programme is overseen the Group is well positioned to exploit new opportunities in the year ahead.
by the Business Continuity Board, a sub-committee of the Operational Risk Committee.
The Business Continuity Board receives the selfcertification results of all the Groups Business areas LSEG Risk Governance structure FIRST LINE SECOND LINE THIRD LINE LSEG Board Risk Audit Committee Committee Executive Committee Financial Operational New Products Committee Risk Committee Committee Treasury Business Committee Continuity Board
