STRATEGIC REPORT 24 Principal risks and mitigants RISK MITIGANT 1.
Investment underperformance risk Fund underperformance on an absolute basis, relative This is the key risk Man Group has to accept if it is to undertake its business.
Man to a benchmark or relative to peer groups would reduce Groups investment businesses each have clearly defined investment processes funds under management FUM and may result in designed to target and deliver on the investment mandate of each product.
lower subscriptions and higher redemptions.
This may also resultin dissatisfied clients, negative press and Fund and manager performance is closely monitored, and we focus on hiring and reputationaldamage.
retaining highly skilled professionals who are incentivised to perform within the parameters of their mandate.
Lower FUM results in lower management fee revenue and underperformance results in lower performance fees, if any.
Man Groups diversified range of products and strategies across the alternatives marketplace mitigates the risk to the business from underperformance of any The breakdown of Man Groups FUM and revenue margins particular strategy.
by product line is shown on page 16.
Man Group conducts regular liquidity tests on its funds and endeavours to manage Adverse market moves and high volatility may sharply resources in such a way as to meet all demands for fund redemptions according increase the demands on the liquid resources in Man tocontractual terms.
Market stress and increased redemptions could result in the deterioration of fund liquidity and in the severest cases this could lead to the gating of funds.
Regulatory risk Man Group offers an increasingly wide range of investment Man Group supports proportionate and thoughtful global regulation and initiatives products covering multiple strategies from a global network that develop the regulatory environment.
It is licensed in 16 jurisdictions, which results in Man Group being subject to a matrix of regulations.
Man Group continuously assesses whether the products it markets comply with new regulations as they emerge and change.
In this respect, the company Man Group is regulated by 18 regulators and lead regulated conducts an independent review process for all products.
by the UK Financial Conduct Authority.
Man Group continues to liaise directly and indirectly with competent authorities Notable regulatory developments include the recent e. g. FCA, IOSCO, ESMA, HMT, NFA, DFSA and CSRC through its Compliance implementation of the EU Alternative Investment Fund department which consists of approximately 32 specialists covering Corporate, Managers Directive, the upcoming implementation of Investment Management, Sales and Marketing and Financial Crime.
Compliance UCITSV, MiFID II MiFIR and the Markets Abuse Directive 2. islocated across eight jurisdictions.
Discretionary trading risk The risk that investment managers either intentionally or Front office systems provide automated checks and controls at portfolio and trade unintentionally fail to execute and or book trades correctly, level.
Each investment management business has dedicated risk management or fail to adhere to investment mandates or regulatory personnel who monitor portfolio profiles and provide independent challenge.
This includes insider dealing and market abuse, misrepresenting trading positions trades and misallocation In addition all fund managers are required to undertake regular mandatory training between funds.
Man Group may need to compensate for so that they are aware of due processes and their responsibilities related to the any losses arising from such trades, as well as face the placing of trades.
possibility of fines, lawsuits and reputational damage.
Operational risk Operational risk is defined as the risk resulting from Risk and Control SelfAssessment RCSA is at the core of our assessment inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems ofoperational risks.
Key risk indicators and operational risk events are regularly orfrom external events.
reviewed so that our assessment of operational risks correctly reflects the Groups operational risk profile.
These assessments are subject to independent review by Man Group continues to outsource a number of functions Group Risk and Internal Audit, who also provide assurance over the adequacy that were previously performed internally.
The risks are ofthe Groups control processes.
that the outsourced service providers do not perform as required, resulting in knockon implications for our business Man Groups operations team have implemented a methodology including KPI as a whole.
monitoring to confirm that outsourced service providers are delivering as required.
This process is monitored by the Risk & Finance Committee and ARCom.
Technology and information security are central to Man Groups business.
Information security risk is defined as the Cybercrime attacks continue to grow in terms of scale and complexity.
We have risk of loss resulting from cybercrime, malicious disruption deployed a number of preventative and detective controls to defend our IT systems to our networks or from the theft, misplacing, interception, against cyberattack.
These include penetration tests, specialist security company corruption or deletion of information.
monitoring of our networks and regular access reviews.
However, the fast pace of innovation by cybercriminals makes it particularly challenging to assess the effectiveness of our defences and deliver protection against this increasing threat.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 25 RISK MITIGANT 5.
Seeding book risk Man Group uses capital to seed new funds as part of the Requests for seeding capital are assessed on their strategic rationale for the ongoing business to build our fund offering and expand business.
Approvals are granted by the Seed Investment Committee SIC, product distribution.
Man Group is exposed to any decline which comprises of several members of senior management, Risk and Treasury.
Investments are subject to risk limits and an appropriate exit strategy.
While Man Group holds these positions, they are monitored regularly by Group Risk and reviewed monthly by the SIC.
6. Credit counterparty risk The risk that a counterparty with which the funds or Man Man Group diversifies its deposits across a number of the strongest financial Group have financial transactions fails to deliver back counterparties, each of which is approved by the Counterparty Monitoring investor or shareholder assets.
Committee, a subcommittee of the Risk and Finance Committee.
Each counterparty is reviewed on a regular basis and assessed for creditworthiness.
In Shareholders and investors in Man funds and products are addition, it is responsible for the review and escalation of any proposals for new exposed to credit risk of prime brokers, clearing houses, counterparties.
The Group Risk function monitors the credit spreads and ratings of depository banks and guarantee providers.
the approved counterparties on a daily basis.
Man Group also provides loans to guaranteed products, and Guaranteed products are closely monitored, and leverage is actively adjusted such so is subject to counterparty risk to certain investor funds.
that the risk of default related to balance sheet loans to funds is small.
Legal risk The global nature of Man Groups business, with corporate Man Group operates a global legal framework which underpins all aspects of its and fund entities located in multiple jurisdictions and business and is resourced by experienced legal teams.
a diverse investor base makes it subject to a wide range of laws.
Failure to comply with these laws and These teams are physically located in Man Groups key jurisdictions helping them regulations may put Man Group at risk of fines, lawsuits to understand the context and impact of any legal requirements.
Emphasis is placed on proactively analysing new legal developments to assess In response to the financial crisis, an unprecedented likely impacts and mitigate risks.
number of new laws have arisen which are applicable to Man Group.
While the legislative response has been global, implementation is local which leads to variations of approach between key jurisdictions.
Failure to stay abreast of, analyse and respond to these new and varied laws may expose ManGroup to the risks outlined above.
Reputational risk The risk that an incident or negative publicity undermines Our reputation is dependent on both our operational and fund performance.
our reputation as a leading alternative investment Integrity is fundamental to ensuring Man Group is able to attract investment manager.
Reputational damage could result in significant in funds.
Our governance and control structure helps mitigate operational redemptions from our funds, and could lead to issues with concerns, and our attention to people and investment processes aim to establish external financing, credit ratings and relations with our that we comply with accepted standards of investment management practice.
TheBoardregularly reviews evidence of whether the right tone from the top is being maintained.
Key staff retention risk The risk that a key person to the business leaves or is unable Man Group has been able to attract and retain an array of talented individuals to perform their role.
Business and investment processes are designed with a view to continue this trend and minimise the impact of losing any key individuals.
However, the nature of Mans business means that this is a risk that Man Group must accept.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
