C F I I G N E A T N A C R I A T S L STRATEGIC REPORT 22 Risk management In September we announced plans to increase our seeding programme.
It is a key objective of Man Group Significant progress has been made since with the launch of several tobealeader in risk management new AHL and GLG funds.
Whilst the Group is exposed to a decline in value of these investments, supporting the development of new products andgovernance.
increases and diversifies revenues further.
Our operating model is reliant on technology therefore the heightened threat from cybercrime is an area of increasing focus for the Group.
An integrated approach to risk management Risk management is an essential component of our approach, both to The principal risks faced by Man Group are set out on pages 24 to 25. the management of investment funds on behalf of investors, and the Seeding Book Risk and the threat from cybercrime within Operational management of Man Groups business on behalf of shareholders.
Risk are now included in our principal risks.
Ultimate responsibility for risk management rests with Man Groups Man Group is currently regulated by 18 regulators in 16 jurisdictions: Board, however, accountability is embedded throughout all layers of the the Group continues to focus on keeping our operational and risk business.
Our risk management framework requires that the business management frameworks effective for our evolving global business.
operates within acceptable risk tolerances, as defined by the Boards risk Inthe Principal risks and mitigants section on page 24 we have noted appetite.
Our governance structure provides a foundation for ongoing a number of regulatory developments.
Regulation continues to evolve oversight in a dynamic environment.
Independent fund boards are atdifferent paces across jurisdictions.
responsible for keeping the interests of fund investors protected.
Our balance sheet remains strong and we continue to seek the most Developments in 2014 efficient ways to fund our regulatory capital and liquidity requirements.
Our risk profile has not changed significantly during the year: investment In September, we further improved our liquidity position by taking underperformance continues to be the biggest risk facing the Group.
advantage of favourable market conditions to issue $150m of lower A diverse product range gives Man shareholders protection against Tier2debt.
concentrated underperformance from any one sector and the Group hascontinued to add to our wide range of investment styles and Our counterparty risk exposures at both corporate and fund level are products via a number of acquisitions see page 8, expanding our closely monitored.
Credit spreads have been tight during 2014 and the presence in NorthAmerica.
implied risk to the Groups balance sheet from counterparty defaults remains low.
We are conscious, however, of the continued risk of Acquisitions into the Group introduce shortterm integration risks.
individual events, or a downturn in market sentiment and we continue ManGroups executive team is experienced in managing integrations totake a conservative approach to counterparty selection.
and risk mitigation plans are in place.
Man Groups risk and compliance teams independently review the assessment of integration risks and the appropriateness of risk mitigation plans.
RISK MANAGEMENT CATEGORIES The risk of reduced funds under The risk that Man Group will: management due to: make inappropriate strategic choices be unable to successfully implement poor fund performance Double click the selected strategies fund underperformance relative to be subject to changes which invalidate a benchmark or peclipping mask with er group strategies and undermine the existing black arrow to edit business model data for pie chart Note: This is a risk Man Group must adopt as part of its businessmodel.
The risk of a loss The risk resulting from: to Man Group owing to: inadequate or failed internal processes, adverse market movements people or systems counterparty failure to deliver investor external events orshareholder assets when due insufficient liquidity resources available forMan to meet its obligations Note: This includes legal and regulatory risks.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 O T P N E E R M A T T I S O E N V A N L I STRATEGIC REPORT 23 MAN GROUPS GOvERNANCE The below committees have been given a mandate by the Board Mans risk appetite statements and the CEO to oversee the risk management framework.
These The risk appetite statements are set by the Board and cover all significant committees provide assurance to the Board that risk has been risk categories.
They apply to both the investment management functions managed according to the risk appetite statements: and Man Group itself.
The statements express the Boards appetite for risk, promote a risk aware culture and set out objectives and boundaries for Man Groups business.
PLC BOARD The primary goal of risk management is to support the achievement of company objectives by encouraging an appropriate balance between riskseeking and riskaverse activities, in a controlled and regulatory compliant context.
Audit and Risk Committee CEO The governance framework and control environment within the Group The Audit and Risk Committee have been designed to manage risks in accordance with risk appetite.
ARCom is a committee of the The Board and ARCom receive regular reporting on the Groups risk Board which has oversight of the Assurance functions see page 38 profile and adherence with risk appetite.
In the event that breaches Executive Committee for further detail.
to riskappetite occur, these will be resolved in line with the firms procedures and processes.
The statements are reviewed at least The Executive Committee is annually by the Board, and were most recently updated and approved accountable for all risks assumed inNovember 2014. in the business and is responsible for the execution of appropriate risk management discipline.
A summary of the new risk appetite statements is available at www.
Risk & Finance Committee The Risk & Finance Committee RAF oversees the operational, regulatory and reputational risks faced by the Group and the internal control environment.
It also approves actual and contingent use of the Group Balance Sheet and monitors the adequacy of economic capital and liquiditybuffers.
The RAF is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer CRO.
THREE LINES OF DEFENCE The overall risk management framework at Man Group is based on the The framework instils the principles of direct responsibility for risk three lines of defence, and is overseen by the Audit and Risk Committee management in each business unit.
Embedding accountability as delegated by the Board: atthebusiness level is the first line of defence.
The business units are monitored by a number of risk control functions i. e. Risk, Compliance, which form the second line of defence.
1ST 2ND 3RD The independent review and oversight provided by Internal Audit is thethird line of defence, which independently evaluates the adequacy Business and effectiveness of the Groups risk management, control and Compliance Management governance processes.
Although Man Group and the investors in its products are susceptible to In Business losses, we believe our risk management framework supports longterm Risk Risk value through the process of riskaware decision making.
Management Operational Management MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Internal Audit External Audit
