Strategic report Governance Financial performance 43 Principal risks Summary of principal risks Technology increased As mentioned elsewhere, the Groups key focus in 2014 and 2015 continues to be to The risk of developing Technology The Groups customer offer includes improve our customer experience through and maintaining our own products operated using different an expanded mobile offer across all proprietary software labels and gaming licences, the majority products as well as through maintaining of which are driven by the Groups The risk that changes outside Regulation high levels of availability.
of the Companys control proprietary technology.
affect its ability to operate Regulation increased 2013 saw the successful completion of and that without compliant the dotcom player migration project systems and processes in Focusing on nationally regulated and place we could breach and during 2014 our customer base in or taxed markets safeguards our gaming regulatory requirements France was migrated successfully onto revenues from potential national our target platform.
The migration of our The risk that we have to pay Taxation legislation threatening to prohibit or Italian customers to the target platform increased taxation as restrict one or more of the products a result of changes outside represents the last of our integration that we offer, or online gaming entirely.
of the Groups control projects following the Merger and is due There are potential risks for the Group to be completed in March 2015.
The risk that our shift away Shift to a from all markets where regulation is not from a product-led approach new label-led clearly defined or adopted, especially The fact that 88% of our customer base is to one driven by label may approach in relation to EU legislation and already supported by our target platform, create additional operational associated cases.
highlights how important our technology risk in the short term is to the Group.
In an industry where To manage this risk, the Group continues Our international footprint Country and service reliability and integrity are key to engage either directly or indirectly means we are exposed to currency risk differentiating factors, our continual shifts in the global economy with national governments and regulators commitment to providing a reliable, safe, and exchange rates of to-be-regulated markets.
The Groups secure, compliant and continuous service Compliance and Regulatory Affairs team has been a key area of focus this year.
There are a number of potential risks and keeps abreast of the regulatory landscape uncertainties which could have a material and reports to the ARC and the Board on Through the combined efforts of our impact on the Groups performance over any developments.
However, it should be Technology and Internal Audit and Risk the course of the financial year and could noted that most of the risks in relation to Assurance teams, an independent review cause actual results to differ materially the regulatory landscape are outside of of the Groups Production Incident and from expected and historical results.
Problem Management process was To mitigate against these risks bwin.
party performed on behalf of the Audit & Risk Operating in nationally regulated and conducts a continuous process of Group-wide Committee ARC, highlighting risks and or taxed markets necessitates that we assessments that examine whether any key areas for improvement.
In parallel, a comply with the required rules and risk has increased, decreased or become Group-wide initiative on achieving close to protocols.
Currently, the Group holds obsolete: identify any new risks, especially 100% system availability was introduced licences for and offers real money from recent key business events: and the and we have made significant progress in gambling in 11 different territories, each likelihood of a risk occurring and what ensuring our customer facing systems are with their own unique licence obligations.
level of impact it would have on the Group.
available for 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
The need to sometimes develop Many of the threats and challenges faced bespoke technological, operational Other technology-related risks, such as by online gaming companies are similar to and promotional offers in each market continuing our operations in the event of a those faced by other leisure and entertainment requires significant investment.
natural or man-made disaster, have been industries.
They include competition, The Group is committed to meeting its addressed with a substantial investment changes to consumer tastes, maintaining licence obligations and monitors its during 2014 and support from the IT healthy financial ratios in compliance compliance with regulatory requirements Committee and consequently both the with banking covenants and loss of by performing reviews of its licensed Groups disaster recovery and business key personnel.
operations on a periodic basis with the continuity solutions have been updated results reported to the ARC.
The Group and tested during the year.
There are also certain risks that are more also submits the licensed entities to a specific to bwin.
party and to the online With continuous shifts in how consumers series of external audits by regulators and gaming industry.
These risks and how we choose and are able to access our services industry specialists to ensure that policies seek to manage them are summarised in via different devices and or channels, the and procedures are being followed this section.
process of maintaining and improving our as intended.
technology will become more complex.
44 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Taxation increased New label-led approach increased Conditions in the Eurozone remain challenging and reference has already As outlined above the Groups strategic In 2014, the Group announced a been made in previous statements to focus is to operate in nationally regulated fundamental shift in its operations away the challenging economic backdrop in and or taxed markets.
Revenues earned from a product-led approach sports several European countries, reducing the from customers located in a particular betting, casino & games, poker and bingo spending power of customers particularly jurisdiction may give rise to further taxes towards one driven by label bwin labels, in Southern European countries, which in that jurisdiction.
If such taxes are levied, Games labels, US, Studios and Other.
the Group has attempted to reflect in its either on the basis of existing law or the financial forecasts.
The weaker European Whilst this shift to a new approach current practice of any tax authority, or by economies are also increasing the risk created some uncertainty for employees, reason of a change in law or practice, then of currency volatility and the potential continuous support through regular this may have a material adverse effect on for significant currency devaluation and communications via location-driven the amount of tax payable by the Group.
business disruption if one or more of Town Halls, webinars through the Groups these countries exits the Euro currency.
Group companies operate only where intranet and one-on-one question and Accordingly, the Groups treasury they are incorporated, domiciled or answer sessions with Human Resource processes and policies have been revised registered.
The multi-location set-up of teams have each helped to maintain a with the aim of minimising the Groups the Group gives rise to transfer pricing risk, transparent and continuous channel exposure to the Eurozone economic risk mitigated by the fact that all intra-group of communication that has aided and to preserve our ability to operate if transactions are documented and take this transition.
place on an arms length basis unless local Having business units and labels legislation or other business conditions The functional currency of the Company resourced across various locations does make an arms length basis impossible and a majority of the Companys give rise to specific location risks as well as or impractical.
partys decentralisation risks: however this new treasury policy dictates that all material During the course of the year, a review approach has allowed the creation of transaction and currency liability on the transfer pricing arrangements teams dedicated to specific labels rather exposures are fully hedged with financial was conducted on behalf of the ARC.
than products enabling faster decisionderivatives or cash.
Consequently, those The Group Director of Tax routinely holds making, an improved customer offer and bwin.
party companies that have adopted workshops with senior management and better service.
the Euro as their functional currency business unit leaders during the course of The Groups corporate functions continue ensure their financial assets and liabilities the year.
to be administered from the corporate in non-Euro currencies are equal and On 1 January 2015, new VAT rules came centre covering areas such as procurement, that any residual balance is held in Euros.
into force across the EU impacting financial reporting, budgeting, legal and With the so-called GIPSI countries several areas of the digital economy.
HR services, with appropriate service Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Italy, Gambling has typically been exempt levels in place to provide each business if one or more of these countries exits from VAT but falls within the rules for unit with a benchmark of service quality.
the Euro then the Group may be exposed VAT on electronically supplied services.
The 2015 Internal Audit Plan as approved to a currency devaluation of its financial Under EU law, Member States have the by the ARC reflects this new operational assets to the extent that the financial ability to apply VAT to gambling subject set-up and findings will be communicated assets located in the exiting jurisdiction to certain limitations and conditions, to the ARC during the year ahead.
Accordingly, and tax may be due depending on where the treasury policy requires that wherever Country and currency risk unchanged customers are located and how Member practical and subject to regulatory States implement any exemption.
Whilst requirements, the financial assets located Whilst the continuing uncertainty in substantial uncertainty remains, in the in each GIPSI country are limited so they the global economic outlook inevitably light of the new rules the bwin.
party do not exceed the financial liabilities increases the trading and balance sheet Board expects to file for, and pay VAT in associated with that jurisdiction.
risks to which the Group is exposed, certain EU Member States.
It is possible the diversified nature of the Groups that VAT could be payable in other EU business means that such risks are not Member States.
disproportionately different from any other commercial enterprise of a similar scale and international reach.
