Strategic Report Overview of Strategy Aim The business of the Company is that of an investment trust The Companys investment objective and financial highlights and the Directors do not envisage any change in this activity are shown on pages 1 and 2.
A review of the Companys in the foreseeable future.
The aim of the Company is to activities is given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 7 to achieve a total return greater than its benchmark by 9 and the Managers Review on pages 10 to 13.
The review investing predominantly in equities worldwide.
Within this includes an analysis of the business of the Company and its objective the Manager will seek to increase the Companys principal activities, likely future developments of the revenues in order to maintain an above average dividend business, the recommended dividend and details of any yield.
The processes to achieve this are shown below.
acquisition of its own shares by the Company.
Investment Process The Investment Manager has its own investment process, which, in the case of the Company, is overseen by the Board.
The process is summarised below.
Murray International Trust PLC 3 Strategic Report - Overview of Strategy continued Manager invests in a diversified range of international Investment Policy companies in accordance with the investment objective.
Asset Allocation The Companys assets are invested in a diversified portfolio The portfolio manager, Bruce Stout, has responsibility for of international equities and fixed income securities spread portfolio construction across all regional segments.
As can be across a range of industries and economies.
The Company's seen from the diagram on page 3, the Aberdeen investment policy is flexible and it may, from time to time, management team utilises a Global Equity Buy List which hold other securities including but not limited to indexis constructed by each of the specialist country management linked securities, convertible securities, preference shares, teams.
This list contains all buy and hold recommendations unlisted securities, depositary receipts and other equityfor each management team, which are then used by the related securities.
The Company may invest in derivatives for portfolio manager as the Companys investment universe.
the purposes of efficient portfolio management.
The Stock selection is the major source of added value.
Companys investment policy does not impose any geographical, sectoral or industrial constraints upon the Top-down investment factors are secondary in the Managers Manager.
The Board has agreed guidelines which the portfolio construction, with stock diversification rather than Manager is required to work within from meeting to meeting.
formal controls guiding stock and sector weights.
Market It is the investment policy of the Company to invest no more capitalisation is not a primary concern.
than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment companies including listed investment trusts at the time of A detailed description of the investment process and risk purchase.
The Company currently does not have any controls employed by the Manager is disclosed on pages 3 investments in other investment companies.
A comprehensive analysis of the Companys portfolio is disclosed on pages 16 to 22 including a description of the Risk Diversification twenty largest investments, the portfolio of investments by The Manager actively monitors the Companys portfolio and value, attribution analysis, distribution of investments and attempts to mitigate risk primarily through diversification.
The Company is permitted to invest up to 15% of its investments by value in any single stock at the time of At the year end the Companys portfolio consisted of 46 purchase.
The Manager is authorised by the Board to hold between 45 and 150 stocks in the Gearing portfolio.
The Board considers that returns to shareholders can be enhanced by the judicious use of borrowing.
The Board is Principal Risks and Uncertainties responsible for the level of gearing in the Company and The Board has adopted a matrix of the key risks that affect reviews the position on a regular basis.
The major financial risks associated with the except for short-term liquidity purposes, is used for Company are detailed in note 19 to the Financial Statements investment purposes or to fund the purchase of the and the other principal risks are summarised below.
Total gearing will not in normal circumstances exceed 30% of Net Assets with cash deposits Discount and Premium Control Policy netted against the level of borrowings.
At the year end there The market value of, and the income derived from, the shares was net gearing of 13.8% calculated in accordance with AIC can fluctuate and, notwithstanding the Board's discount and guidance and particular care is taken to ensure that any premium control policy, may not always reflect the Net bank covenants permit maximum flexibility of investment Asset Value per share.
There can be no guarantee that any policy.
appreciation in the value of the Company's investments will occur and investors may not get back the full value of their Changes to Investment Policy investment.
No assurance can be given that any sale of the Any material change to the investment policy will require the Company's investments would realise proceeds which would approval of the shareholders by way of an ordinary resolution be sufficient to repay any borrowings or provide funds for at a general meeting.
The Company will promptly issue an any capital repayment to shareholders.
Shareholders will bear announcement to inform the shareholders and the public of the rewards and risks of the success or otherwise of the any change of its investment policy.
Delivering the Investment Policy The market value of the shares, as well as being affected by Day to day management of the Companys assets has been the Net Asset Value, also takes into account the dividend delegated to the Investment Manager.
The Investment yield and prevailing interest rates, supply and demand for the shares, market conditions and general investor sentiment.
4 Murray International Trust PLC The Company operates a discount and premium control Foreign Currency Risks policy.
The operation of the discount control element of this The Company's investments are principally in overseas policy could lead to a significant reduction in the size of the securities.
The Company accounts for its activities and Company over time, which would increase the Company's reports its results in sterling.
The Company currently hedges total expense ratio and prejudice the ability of the Company most of the foreign currency exposure in respect of the to pay satisfactory levels of dividend to shareholders.
When liabilities attached to its borrowings.
Where the Company demand exceeds supply, the Company will consider issuing does not hedge its currency exposure, which is currently the new shares and or selling shares held in treasury at a small case with the investment portfolio, the movement of premium to the Net Asset Value per share.
Any such new exchange rates will have a favourable or unfavourable effect issue or sale will be dependent on market conditions on the gains and losses experienced on investments and the generally at the relevant time, upon shareholders in general income derived from investments which are made or realised meeting conferring appropriate authorities on the Board to in currencies other than pounds sterling.
issue further shares and, where required under the Prospectus Rules, upon a prospectus having been approved by the Regulatory Risks Financial Conduct Authority and published.
The ability of the Cessation of Investment Trust Status: The Company Company to operate the discount control policy will depend attempts to conduct its business so as to satisfy the on the Company being able to purchase its own shares, conditions for approval as an investment trust under Part 24 which will be dependent upon shareholders in general Chapter 4 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Company meeting conferring authority on the Board to purchase its has been accepted by HM Revenue & Customs as an own shares.
The Directors will seek renewal of this authority investment trust, subject to the Company continuing to from shareholders annually and at other times should this meet the relevant eligibility conditions of Corporation Tax prove necessary.
However, there can be no guarantee that Act 2010, for all financial years commencing on or after 1 the requisite shareholder approvals will be obtained.
Any breach of the eligibility conditions could lead to the Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
In accordance with the Listing Rules, the extent of each buyback authority which will be sought by the Company from Tax and Accounting: Any change in the Company's tax shareholders in general meeting will be limited to 14.99% of status or in taxation legislation or accounting practice could the Company's issued share capital as at the date on which affect the value of the investments held by the Company, such authority is granted.
In order to continue purchasing its affect the Company's ability to provide returns to own shares once any such authority has been exhausted, the shareholders or alter the post-tax returns to shareholders.
Company would be required to seek a renewal of such Representations in this document concerning the taxation of authority from shareholders in general meeting.
investors are based upon current tax law and practice which are subject to change.
Any change in accounting standards The ability of the Company to purchase its own shares will may adversely affect the value of the Company's assets in its be subject to the Companies Act 2006 and all other books of account or restrict the ability of the Company to applicable legislation, rules and regulations of any pay dividends.
government, regulatory body or market applicable to the Directors or the Company and, in particular, will be Serious breach of Laws or other regulations: Any serious dependent on the availability of distributable reserves.
breach of other regulations such as the Listing Rules, AIFMD, the Companies Act or Accounting Standards, could lead to Borrowings suspension from the London Stock Exchange and The Company uses borrowings for investment purposes.
The Board receives regular compliance use of borrowings can enhance the total return on the shares reports from the Manager to monitor compliance with where the return on the Company's underlying assets regulations.
exceeds the cost of borrowing.
It is likely to have the opposite effect where the return on the underlying assets is Operational Risk below the cost of borrowing.
As a result, the use of In common with other investment companies, the Company borrowings by the Company will increase the volatility of the has no employees.
The Company therefore relies on services Net Asset Value per share.
provided by third parties, including AFML and AAM in particular, to whom responsibility for the management of the There is no guarantee that any borrowings of the Company Company has been delegated under a management would be refinanced on their maturity either at all or on agreement the Management Agreement further details terms that are acceptable to the Company.
of which are set out on pages 25 and 26.
The terms of the Management Agreement cover the necessary duties and responsibilities expected of the Investment Manager.
The Murray International Trust PLC 5 Strategic Report - Overview of Strategy continued Board reviews the overall performance of AFML and AAM on Directors.
The Company has no employees.
The Boards a regular basis and compliance with the Management statement on diversity is set out on page 32.
Agreement on an annual basis.
Environmental, Social and Human Rights Issues Contracts with other third party providers, including share The Company has no employees as it is managed by AAM.
registrar and custodial services, are entered into after There are therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of appropriate due diligence.
Thereafter, each contract, and the employees.
The Companys socially responsible investment performance of the provider, is subject to regular review.
The policy is outlined on page 34. security of the Companys assets is the responsibility of the depositary and custodian, BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions UK Limited.
The effectiveness of the internal controls of the The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report depositary is subject to periodic review.
from the operations of its business, nor does it have responsibility for any other emission producing sources under Investment Strategy Risk the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors The Companys investment strategy requires investment in Reports Regulations 2013. equity and fixed income stockmarkets, which may lead to loss of capital.
Separately, inappropriate asset allocation or Duration level of gearing, as part of the investment strategy adopted by the Company, may result in underperformance against The Company does not have a fixed life.
either the Companys benchmark and or its peer group, leading to the establishment of a discount.
Kevin Carter Chairman The Board seeks to manage these risks by diversifying its 9 March 2015 investments, as set out in the investment restrictions and guidelines agreed with the Manager, and on which the Company receives regular reports from the Manager.
At each Board meeting, the Directors review the investment process with the Manager by assessing relevant management information including revenue forecasts, absolute relative performance data, attribution analysis and liquidity risk reports.
The Board holds a separate, annual meeting devoted to investment strategy.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
Below are the main KPIs which have been identified by the Board for determining the progress of the Company: Net Asset Value Total Return.
A record of these measures is disclosed on page 14.
Board Diversity The Board recognises the importance of having a range of skilled, experienced individuals with the right knowledge to allow the Board to fulfil its obligations.
At 31 December 2014, there were four male Directors and two female 6 Murray International Trust PLC
