PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Group has remained resilient and the risk management focus is now on execution given a number of recent strategic changes.
proportion of our capital requirements and Our principal risks have been determined execution risk is now our key principal risk.
Given the nature by assessing the possible effects on our As in previous years, economic conditions in of our product offering, market risk is material, reputation, our stakeholders, our earnings, South Africa, the changing location of credit risk across the Group and the level of currency as we are exposed to the impact of market capital and liquidity, and the future translation risk remain principal risks movements on asset-based fees which are sustainability of our business.
They are impacting Old Mutual.
The risk of changing generated from client-selected investments.
summarised in the table below.
These risks customer needs and regulatory change More information on our risk and capital are largely strategic in nature.
They are closely remains important for Old Mutual and management and risk profile is contained in monitored and overseen by Group its peers.
the Risk and capital management section of management and are reported to the Board this Annual Report.
Additional risk information on a regular basis.
Our business is also affected by a number of is disclosed in the consolidated financial During the year the Group underwent a risks inherent to the products we offer, such as statements, note E, in this Annual Report.
The pace and exposure to market levels, interest rates and scale of these changes mean that strategic insurance liability risk.
Strategic execution risk and pace of change across the Old Mutual Group How it impacts Old Mutual 2014 and beyond Risk mitigation and management actions Currently, and for the foreseeable future, As part of delivering our growth strategy, Strong governance structures exist, there is a high degree of execution risk we announced and completed various combining Group executives, local executive associated with the pace and scale of acquisitions and partnerships in 2014. leadership and non-executive directors with change across the Group.
Most notably: the requisite blend of skills and experience to Old Mutual Emerging Markets acquired stakes challenge key strategic initiatives effectively.
Nedbank and Old Mutual Emerging in a number of businesses across Africa during Markets are simultaneously expanding 2014.
Work will continue on integrating these Within the business units, oversight committees into key African growth markets.
Acquisitions are planned to exist at both executive and Board levels to same time they are increasing collaboration continue, with the intended acquisition of the oversee strategic IT and outsourcing projects.
across the South African investment, savings, majority holding in UAP expected to complete For key projects across the Group, there is insurance and banking businesses.
In during 2015. centralised oversight at Group level over and addition, significant investment is planned In 2014 Nedbank finalised the acquisition above the business unit oversight.
in updating and enhancing technology of a 36% shareholding in Banco nico in within these businesses The impact of these changes on the risk Mozambique and exercised its option to Old Mutual Wealth is focusing on the profile of the business is managed take a 20% share in Ecobank.
Further strategic integration of recent acquisitions, growing dynamically through Group risk governance partnerships and acquisitions will be pursued.
its asset management capability and and monitoring processes.
implementing its outsourcing of technology The Old Mutual Wealth strategy seeks to We mitigate the increased operational risk and administration to IFDS transform the business into a simpler, vertically by maintaining our focus on the control integrated business with updated IT systems.
OM Asset Management plans to expand environment and prompt escalation.
While the level of operational risk in and grow a multi-boutique asset Old Mutual Wealth is within risk appetite, it management business through remains high in the short-term, reflecting the acquisitions of additional affiliates execution of the outsourcing arrangement with Across the Group we aim to become IFDS and the acquisitions of Intrinsic and recognised as the financial services leader Quilter Cheviot.
in responsible business across our markets.
This will require operational, performance The partial IPO of the OM Asset Management and management changes throughout business was completed in 2014.
Management set out its growth agenda in the IPO.
It will identify and seize opportunities as they arise, in line with the key risks outlined at the time of its listing.
The additional litigation and regulatory risks introduced by listing are managed through our ongoing risk management processes.
32 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report 2.
Uncertain economic conditions in South Africa How it impacts Old Mutual 2014 and beyond Risk mitigation and management actions A significant portion of our earnings comes The global economic outlook remains We monitor multiple external economic from our South African businesses.
The South African economy is factors and incorporate them into stress and integrated in the global economy but is also scenario testing to understand our earnings In our insurance and investment businesses, impacted by domestic factors.
and capital resilience to severe macroour earnings are at risk if our customers are economic events.
unable to keep up premiums, cancel existing During 2014 South Africas economic growth policies or withdraw their savings earlier forecasts were revised downwards after We offer solutions to help clients in tougher than anticipated.
Additionally, our future protracted labour disputes and power times, and focus on understanding individual profits will be at risk if customers do not buy shortages.
These also prompted a sovereign customers financial positions at the point of insurance policies from us or invest their credit downgrade by rating agencies.
For example, the 2-IN-ONE savings savings with us at the levels we anticipate.
product for the mass foundation market If sovereign credit was further downgraded, launched in 2014.
See the case study in the Low interest rates may also negatively impact the impact on the Groups business outside Our markets section on page 27. endowment income in our banking businesses.
South Africa would be limited.
Within South Africa the impact would be reflected in Our businesses manage premium collections All our businesses are exposed to increased consequential changes in underlying economic and credit payments, while monitoring for expense growth from high levels of inflation.
and market-related factors, such as the level of early indicators of financial distress.
interest rates, foreign exchange rates and A weak economic environment impacts We manage our cost base judiciously, while international capital flows.
credit risk in our investment, insurance and investing sustainably for the future.
Credit risk is discussed Subdued global demand and persistent further below.
The Groups plan to grow the sources of infrastructure constraints are expected to limit earnings outside South Africa, in the growth in the South African economy.
This will We have exposure to South African medium-term, is expected to diversify its continue to weigh on household disposable sovereign debt and parastatals, but only exposure to this risk.
income in the medium term.
However, a within the South African businesses, in line prolonged period of low oil prices, leading to with market and regulatory expectations.
lower transport and food costs, could help support disposable income and spending.
3. Credit risk and location of credit risk across the Group continued overleaf How it impacts Old Mutual 2014 and beyond Risk mitigation and management actions One of our largest risks to Group earnings Credit risk across the Group increased during We monitor credit loss ratios on an ongoing is our exposure to banking credit risk from 2014 due to the acquisition of Faulu and an basis and they are broadly within target lending and other financing activities increase in Old Mutual Emerging Markets range.
In addition, we review the quality of through our ownership of Nedbank, and stake in Old Mutual Finance from 50% to 75%.
credit portfolios to ensure credit impairment to a lesser extent our exposure within provisions are adequate.
Although Nedbanks 20% ownership of Old Mutual Emerging Markets.
Credit risk Ecobank is accounted for as an equity share, For unsecured lending, Nedbank and exposure within Old Mutual Emerging this indirectly increases our credit risk.
Old Mutual Finance continue to focus on Markets is growing as a proportion of this quality of business through regular divisions own risk exposure.
Our credit risk remains within appetite.
adjustment of affordability and credit However, the high levels of personal Despite tight controls and processes, scorecards and risk-based product metrics indebtedness and pressure on consumers in banking profits remain sensitive to relatively loan term, size and interest rates, based on South Africa remain a challenge, as do other small movements in credit loss ratios.
macro-economic factors outside our control, Our exposure to Nedbank is primarily risk to such as commodity prices.
Stress testing is carried out at both Nedbank earnings, as Nedbanks capital and liquidity and Old Mutual Emerging Markets to Our lending credit exposure is concentrated in requirements are both met from its own understand exposure to credit events.
Our portfolio tilt strategy in our banking loan exposures is designed to provide more robust long term returns with lower volatility for deteriorating credit experience.
Old Mutual plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued 3. Credit risk and location of credit risk across the Group continued How it impacts Old Mutual 2014 and beyond Risk mitigation and management actions Within Old Mutual Emerging Markets, Unsecured lending exposure is small in Large concentrations are monitored at banking credit risk is expected to increase comparison to the total lending book.
These relate primarily to due to planned growth.
Banking credit risk Old Mutual Finance we have experienced investment credit, as there is little arises in: controlled growth in unsecured lending from concentration or aggregation of individual a low base, applying stringent affordability credit exposures outside Nedbank and Our unsecured lending business, requirements and strict credit criteria.
Within Old Mutual Emerging Markets.
Old Mutual Finance Nedbank, unsecured lending growth is Faulu, a Kenyan consumer finance expected to remain slow.
business acquired in 2014 We are planning to further grow our lending A building society in Zimbabwe known businesses in Faulu, CABS, Old Mutual as CABS.
Finance and Old Mutual Specialised Finance, Investment credit risk arises in: and this will be underpinned by strong credit risk management together with risk oversight Old Mutual Specialised Finance and governance.
The South African life business, predominantly through the management of assets backing annuity products.
There is also credit risk exposure within Mutual & Federal through holdings in the credit guarantee insurer, CGIC.
Credit risk outside Nedbank and Old Mutual Emerging Markets is relatively limited.
Currency translation risk and location of capital How it impacts Old Mutual 2014 and beyond Risk mitigation and management actions At Group level our earnings, dividend and In 2014, the rand depreciated from R17.43 to We hold our capital resources including regulatory surplus capital are expressed in R18.00 against the pound, following a 27% the Groups issued debt to meet capital sterling but the majority of the Groups depreciation during 2013.
This reflects the requirements in matched currencies earnings and its surplus capital are relative weakness of South Africas economic and service interest on debt with denominated in South African rand.
outlook and also, in part, a reduction in US matching earnings.
appetite for emerging market currencies.
The balance of cash flows earned in rand The translation of our rand earnings will be We see macro-economic factors that point and other currencies is closely monitored affected by movements in exchange rates.
to possible further rand weakness in the and the dividend policy, through its link to From a capital perspective, our capital is medium term.
These include the current earnings, in part addresses this risk.
held where our risks are located and the risk account deficit and the possibility of capital would only be realised if we were to require We use forward currency contracts to hedge outflows from South Africa as some external a transfer of surplus capital between regions expected rand cash flows needed to make investors may sell their holdings of South during periods of stress.
African government bonds should global interest rates rise.
Our philosophy is to maintain strongly Regular stress and scenario testing supports capitalised subsidiaries reflecting local understanding and monitoring of the We are preparing to comply with Solvency II regulatory capital requirements.
Our resilience of the Groups capital and capacity and SAM regulatory requirements, which will principal balance sheet businesses in South to pay dividends in the event of significant be effective from January 2016.
The rules have Africa including their own subsidiaries are currency movements or restrictions however yet to be finalised.
We expect greater clarity to appropriately capitalised for the remote on the flow of funds from South Africa.
emerge during 2015. international standards of Basel III and The Groups plan to broaden the source expected Solvency II equivalent regimes.
of earnings in currencies other than the rand is expected to provide more diversified earnings by currency, although this is a longer-term mitigant.
34 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report 5.
C hanging shape of the industry due to changing customer needs and regulations, particularly consumer-focused regulations How it impacts Old Mutual 2014 and beyond Risk mitigation and management actions Attracting new and retaining existing Our customers needs are evolving.
Strategic initiatives across the Group are customers is key to the delivery of our strategy.
Consumers want to be more in control of their streamlining our business so we can adapt finances.
As digital technology advances, they more easily to changing customer needs and New and evolving consumer-focused increasingly rely on and prefer technological regulations.
They include implementation of regulation, non-traditional distribution tools for a variety of tasks.
IT solutions that allow us to deploy new methods, new technologies, changing products and system changes more quickly, demographics and changing customer Despite this, the need for individual attention making use of outsourcing partners where needs and preferences are altering the remains.
Consumers seek quality as well as IT is not our core competitive proposition.
distribution and competitive landscape original offerings that meet their personal across our geographies.
This may place needs, and it is important that service remains In addition, our brand promise and business plans and our growth strategy at convenient in terms of both time and effort.
commitment to operating as a responsible risk if our business model is not flexible business, with a strong customer focus and Regulators in many jurisdictions continue to enough to let us adapt quickly and effectively culture, position us well to respond to focus on the fair treatment of customers and to the changing landscape.
both principles and appropriate regulation in Within Old Mutual Wealth our acquisition of this area are evolving.
In particular, there is Where similar regulatory themes are Intrinsic increases the risks associated with increased focus on product design, advice, and developing, we transfer knowledge from providing advice to customers, such as the product life cycle after the sales process.
different geographies across the Group to litigation and regulatory intervention.
anticipate and implement new regulations.
Products and practices which might in the past Specific consumer-focused regulation have been considered normal might no longer We proactively prepare for anticipated impacting Old Mutual includes: be acceptable.
There will be a need to adapt regulatory changes and engage with and evolve new products and operations regulators to avoid or mitigate unexpected In the UK, the ongoing impacts of the while remaining mindful that the long-term adverse impacts.
Retail Distribution Review RDR and new nature of the business means legacy products pension withdrawal rules effective from A group-wide Information Security will take time to run off.
April 2015 Steering Committee considers cyber security, with particular focus on education, In South Africa, Treating Customers Fairly, awareness, monitoring and understanding Retirement Fund Reform and a review of of the threat environment.
adviser remuneration models similar to the UKs RDR.
In addition, the planned move Our ACT NOW!
Leadership Behaviours, to Twin Peaks regulation.
which are formally measured as part of our performance management system, include Furthermore, increasing regulatory a metric for putting the customer first.
requirements impact the cost and complexity We measure our culture around treatment of of doing business.
customers annually through our group-wide Consumers use and preference for digital culture survey.
Maintaining adequate cyber security, with appropriate protection for client assets and data, is also a key risk for Old Mutuals retail businesses given the external threat environment and increasing reliance on technology.
Old Mutual plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
