RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Groups philosophy and approach to risk Against this Group backdrop of change, our and capital management have been stable principal risks remain largely unchanged from for a number of years, and are aligned to the last year.
However, execution risk is elevated Group Operating Model.
However, the risk along with the uncertainties around the South landscape is changing and the Group is African economy.
This impacts affordability entering a new phase in its development.
Our for our customers, as well as the translation approach to risk management has evolved of rand earnings to sterling as our reporting accordingly.
It reflects a blend of factors currency.
The environment is also changing capital, earnings, liquidity and reputation most notably in relation to our customers whose relative weights vary according to the needs and the growth of conduct regulation business and the external environment.
Our response to this is strongly supported by our efforts to run our The Groups risk profile in terms of capital business so that we are recognised as a leader Throughout our businesses, and liquidity has improved substantially since in responsible business.
Over that the tone from the top is very period we embarked on a strategy to fide-risk Ultimately, risk management is about people.
supportive of sound risk and simplify, with a focus on the customer, We build tools and processes to help identify, our culture and values, and our core monitor and manage risks, but the operation management.
By 2014 the fide-risking phase of a sound risk management approach Sue Kean was largely complete and the Group entered depends on people and the culture in which Chief Risk Officer a new growth phase with investment in they operate, which is set by leadership across acquisitions in the UK and Africa, as well the Group.
This is why we developed a risk as substantial inorganic investment in IT.
and control culture measurement in 2014 primarily to facilitate open discussion and Our risk management approach will continue understanding of risk and control issues.
to be a blend of capital, earnings, liquidity and Throughout our businesses, the tone from reputation.
There will be a sharper focus in the top is very supportive of sound risk 2015 on reputation, conduct, capital allocation management: and we continue to cascade and understanding relative risk and returns, this awareness throughout the organisation.
as the Group starts to expand into new territories and markets, in the environment Sue Kean of changing capital regulation under Chief Risk Officer Solvency II SAM and Basel III.
The Groups principal risks The table in the Principal risks and Given our particular product offering, we uncertainties section summarises the Groups are also impacted by various inherent risks top five risks.
Our principal risk assessment such as exposure to market levels.
As such, considers the likelihood and severity of risks, market risk is one of our most material risks.
where the severity assessment considers the However, we do not include it as a principal financial, reputational, regulatory, people risk within our assessment as it largely arises and legal impacts of a particular risk.
as a result of the risk to asset-based fees generated from client-selected investments.
These risks are largely strategic in nature.
They are closely monitored and overseen at Group level, and the Board and Executive Risk Committees receive regular updates.
62 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial review and risk Risk appetite principles Capital Earnings Liquidity The Group has limited appetite for regulatory The Group accepts that as part of its The Group has a low appetite for failing to intervention perceived or real.
As such, we growth aspirations, especially in new deliver on its stated dividend policy.
hold a buffer above minimum regulatory areas, earnings volatility and execution We hold a buffer at Group level to support requirements in order to remain solvent.
risk are likely to increase.
this, sufficient to withstand a liquidity survival In pursuing strategic opportunities, we However, we have no appetite for big horizon of at least twelve months.
consider the availability, transferability, and surprises: earnings volatility that cannot The Group should be able to meet short-term quality of capital within each business unit.
be anticipated by the market or significant plausible but extreme losses.
As regulatory capital varies by sector, we also have an economic capital appetite which As such, a key focus is on understanding reflects our own view of one-in-200 year risk the different drivers of earnings volatility, events or slightly higher for Nedbank.
focusing on identifying acceptable and unacceptable causes of profit volatility, and monitoring our exposure and experience over time to ensure that outcomes are within our risk tolerance framework.
Risk and control culture A proactive risk and control culture is essential to support our reputation and operation as a responsible business.
Individual behaviours and judgements support a strong risk governance framework.
We measure our risk and control culture by considering our governance and tone from the top, understanding of risk, attitude to risk, control functions, quality of management information, and remuneration structures.
This approach is reinforced Our risk strategy principles Risk framework through senior Group executive representation Our risk strategy is supported by principles The objective of the risk framework is to align on business unit boards, coupled with formal that must be considered in deciding whether strategy, capital, process, people, technology dual reporting for all key control functions.
or not to pursue an opportunity.
and knowledge in order to evaluate and Further details can be found in the Directors 1.
We only take on risks that we understand manage business opportunities, uncertainties report on corporate governance on page 72. and can price appropriately so that and threats in a structured, disciplined manner.
expected reward exceeds minimum In this way we seek to ensure that risk and Our risk strategy and risk-adjusted return for shareholders capital implications are considered when risk appetite and have the skills to monitor and manage.
making strategic and operational decisions.
Risk management is designed to increase our Our risk strategy guides the way we take on 2.
We prefer risks that are capital-efficient to understanding of the risks inherent in the risk in the course of running our business and underwrite.
The impact on diversification or business to improve decision making managing value for all stakeholders.
It is a concentration with the existing risk profile which includes accepting risk.
core component of our business strategy, should be understood and considered.
and is influenced not only by the available Our risk and governance framework is set 3.
We consider risk by business unit, taking economic capital and earnings at risk, but also out in the Group Operating Model and is into account the available capital in the by reference to factors such as the Groups supported by economic capital tools and business unit, and in aggregate at customer focus and leveraging core skills transparent processes for managing, Group level.
and competencies across the Group.
We continue to refine structures and processes 4.
W e avoid risks where we expose ourselves Our overall strategic aim is to build and grow as necessary, but the overall governance to very volatile or potentially extreme a long-term sustainable business.
Central to structures are stable.
These structures and adverse outcomes, such as catastrophe risk.
this is maintaining the Groups brand and processes, together with our strong balance reputation.
We are committed to operating 5.
O perational risk should be minimised and sheet, provide a solid base to support our responsibly, examining the impacts and risks mitigated, taking into account the cost business as we pursue our growth strategy of our decisions on all our stakeholders as an versus the benefit of doing so.
integral part of our decision-making process for more information on how we operate Risk frameworks, governance and the Groups responsibly, please see our Responsible internal capital model are overseen centrally Business Report.
Doing the right thing by all but implemented by our businesses locally, so our stakeholders is at the heart of what we do that local requirements can be addressed and is also the foundation for our risk appetite.
Old Mutual plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT continued Our risk appetite framework supports delivery Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA of our risk strategy.
It includes risk appetite We do not view risk as something separate that are in place through the Group principles to guide our business units and help from our business strategy and operations.
Operating Model and Group Enterprise to clarify our risk strategy in line with the Groups Risk strategy is often implicit within our Risk Management framework.
risk appetite, as set out on the previous page.
business strategy, and the aim of the These principles are supported by qualitative The Board reviewed and approved ORSA is to bring this out more explicitly.
risk appetite statements set out in the Groups the results of the 2014 Group ORSA in risk policy suite, and by quantitative risk limits for The ORSA is an integral part of our existing September 2014 and the 2014 Group our risk appetite metrics, which are set as an business management, risk management, ORSA report was subsequently submitted iterative part of our business planning process business planning and decision-making to the PRA in October 2014. to ensure that local risk limits are consistent with processes.
The ORSA includes all the ORSA, ICAAP and other equivalent local business plans.
We set risk limits at both processes for risk identification, risk assessments are also carried out annually Group and business unit level, and where assessment and measurement, risk within business units.
Twice a year there is a management, risk monitoring and reporting formal review of risk exposures against the limits and early warning thresholds.
As well as this, business units use operational limits As our capital is largely located where our years while we execute and integrate to monitor material risks at a more granular risks lie, any balance sheet impact would be the various strategic change initiatives.
level and on a more regular basis.
For 2014, seen as an unrealised accounting translation We have accepted this increase to reduce all risk metrics across the Group were within risk.
This applies primarily to the translation our longer-term strategic risk, and continue risk appetite limits.
of rand earnings to sterling.
Factors affecting to monitor and manage it closely.
the level of the rand include changes in the In addition we monitor early warning Business risk and market risk remain our level of foreign investment in South Africa.
indicators across all our businesses that trigger two most material risks.
While they have The risk of rand weakness remains high given investigative action to identify and understand remained relatively stable over the year, they the current and capital account deficits South sources of additional risk and management are influenced by the economies in the key Africa is running and the potential for external actions needed to avoid breaching the risk regions where we operate and by the impact investors to sell their holdings of South African appetite limits.
on consumers in those countries, notably South government bonds if global interest rates rise.
Africa, where we currently have our largest A substantial capital outflow could potentially The Groups regulatory framework is retail earnings base.
As well as monitoring trigger a decline in the rand, and this would changing primarily as a result of the economic factors to understand our earnings also reduce our earnings as reported in implementation of Solvency II in Europe and and capital resilience to severe macrosterling.
We have modelled scenarios involving SAM in South Africa, as well as Basel III in economic events, we have maintained a strong a severe rand drop and are comfortable that our banking businesses.
Given this changing focus on customers, considering how we can the Group has sufficient capital and liquidity regulatory framework, we intend to review help them in tougher times and monitoring for resilience in such events, if they happened.
our capital risk appetite in 2015. early indicators of financial distress.
During 2014 we continued to execute our Liability risk diversifies well against our other Groups risk profile growth strategy, acquiring stakes in a number risks and we continue to seek to increase the We assess the Groups risk profile through of businesses in Africa and the UK.
These proportion of this risk where appropriate.
several different lenses, in line with our risk businesses are small compared with our large Our liability risk exposure remains small appetite.
We seek to optimise capital efficiency, in-force insurance and banking businesses and outside the South African businesses.
Our avoiding excessive risk concentrations and do not yet have a significant impact on our risk business plans include a number of actions diversifying risk where possible.
In this context, profile with reference to capital although they to increase this exposure, but only where it we view risk concentration and diversification do impact the returns earned on the capital meets our risk and return requirements.
Each of the Groups deployed.
As a result, earnings volatility and business units and regulated companies within other business metrics such as operational risk In line with our peers, there is significant business units is sufficiently capitalised in its now play an increasing role in the determination regulatory change impacting the financial own right.
The distribution and allocation of of our risk and business strategy.
services sector in the territories we operate.
capital to our businesses largely reflects the Clarity on outstanding regulatory capital Across the Group, most risks have increased different risk profiles within their regions and uncertainties in relation to Solvency II and in line with business growth.
Within Old Mutual the prevailing regulatory requirements.
Even SAM is expected to emerge during 2015.
Emerging Markets, credit risk has grown when applying significant economic stresses There is also substantial change in the conduct due to the increased stake in Old Mutual to our current capital, the Group remains agenda in terms of the way business is sold or Finance and the acquisition of Faulu: we have adequately capitalised.
We have also identified the nature of the products which meet our reassessed risk appetite accordingly.
Credit management actions that could be taken to customers needs.
Our focus on responsible risk has a greater proportional impact on remedy the Groups capital or liquidity position business, core values and culture gives us earnings at risk than it does on capital at risk.
in an extreme shock event where capital or confidence to embrace these changes, and liquidity levels could significantly breach our We recognise that there could be a short-term we continue to monitor the position carefully.
risk appetite limits for a sustained period.
increase in operational risk in the next few Our risk universe is set out on the facing page.
64 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial review and risk Our risk universe 3 Risk exposure largely not 1 Risk exposure captured quantifiable, but risks actively via quantitative risk metrics managed.
The potential Economic Capital at Risk, 3 financial impact from Earnings at Risk and compliance failures and Strategic Market Operational Risk Risk Risk regulatory breaches captured in the Operational Risk Compliance Business measure and operational & Regulatory Risk risk economic capital Risk Old Mutual Risk Categorisation Model Liquidity Liability Risk Risk 1 2 Credit & Operational Counterparty Risk 2 Risk exposure captured Risk via quantitative risk metrics Remittance at Risk and Short-term Liquidity at Risk these metrics will be reviewed in 2015 Risk Risk description Market risk This is the risk of a financial impact arising from changes in the value of financial assets or financial liabilities from changes in equity, bond and property prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
We separately consider currency translation risk, which relates to the translation of earnings and capital to our reporting currency.
Business risk The risk that business performance will be below projections as a result of negative variances in new business volumes and margins, and lapse, rebate and expense experience.
Liability risk We assume liability risk, sometimes referred to as insurance risk, by issuing insurance contracts under which we agree to compensate the policyholder or beneficiary if a specified uncertain future event affecting the policyholder occurs.
This risk includes mortality and morbidity risk, as well as non-life risk from events such as fire or accident.
Credit and This relates to the risk of credit defaults.
It includes lending risk, where a borrower becomes unable to counterparty risk repay outstanding balances for instance banking credit risk, as well as counterparty risk where an asset is not repaid in accordance with the terms of the contract.
The risk of credit spreads changing is included under market risk.
Operational risk The risk arising from operational activities, for example a failure of a major system, or losses incurred as a consequence of people and or process failures, including external events.
Liquidity risk The risk that liquid assets may not be available to pay obligations at a reasonable cost, when due.
Compliance and The risk that laws and regulations will be breached.
This includes risk of regulatory intervention resulting in regulatory risk sanctions being imposed or a temporary restriction on the business ability to operate and or an additional regulatory capital charge.
It also includes failure to adapt to regulatory change and business conduct risk.
Strategic risk The risk of failing to implement the business strategy and the management of associated changes to the business.
Old Mutual plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT continued diversification enables us to assess changes in in Old Mutual Finances book size and the Economic capital risk quantifiable risks impacting the business units.
inclusion of Faulu, and a slight increase in profile of the As discussed previously, economic capital is just market risk due to growth in the book.
one of the lenses through which we assess the Old Mutual Group In Nedbank, we are mainly exposed to credit Groups risk profile, and in particular does not and counterparty risk.
This risk is inherent in Our economic capital framework has been quantify strategic, regulatory or liquidity risk.
banking, from lending and other financing in place for a number of years and presents The pie charts below set out our risk profile activities, and is within risk appetite.
managements view of the Group capital by business unit, with an indication of the with the underpinning assumption that the In Old Mutual Wealth, we are mainly exposed relevant proportion of standalone risk full future value of insurance profits emerges to market and business risk.
The market risk exposure in economic capital terms.
over time and that full diversification can be arises primarily from asset-based fee risk, and Old Mutual Bermuda is included in the recognised between businesses.
The intention the business risk is driven largely by expenses, overall Group profile, but not shown of the framework is to look beyond the mass lapse and rebate risk.
Favourable separately in the business unit view as this regional capital constraints imposed by local market movements improved funds under business is in run-off and represents a or group-level regulatory or rating agency management, resulting in higher exposure to relatively small proportion of our Group requirements and to represent a simple these risks.
The risk profile did not change economic capital.
The economic risk exposure economic view of capital.
The economic materially as a result of the acquisition of data shown is as at 31 December 2014. capital framework also helps us assess Intrinsic and disposal of the German, Austrian exposure to risks across the Group relative The risk profile in Old Mutual Emerging and Liechtenstein operations, which took to risk appetite.
Markets is well diversified, reflecting the place in the second half of 2014, although diverse nature of our business in this region the proportion contributed to total Group For risk management purposes, the Groups across life assurance, property and casualty, standalone economic capital has decreased.
risk profile is based on standalone economic and banking.
This profile has remained largely The corporate activity which completed in capital at risk: the relative contribution of each stable over the year, with an increase in the early 2015 the acquisition of Quilter Cheviot risk is determined before allowing for the level of credit risk due to the increased holding and disposal of European operations in impact of diversification between risks.
of Old Mutual Finance together with growth France and Luxembourg will change the Considering the risk exposure before OM Asset Management Nedbank Old Mutual Wealth 5% 11% 20% 26% 11% 7% 28% 1% 4% 2% 54% 14% 16% 20% 18% 2% 47% 50% Market risk Credit and counterparty risk Business risk The chart above for OM Asset Management shows Old Mutuals 79.6% proportionate share Liability risk gross of shares to EBT of OM Asset Managements economic capital exposure The chart above shows Old Mutuals 56.7% proportionate share of Nedbanks economic capital exposure Operational risk No te that the results for Old Mutual Wealth include Intrinsic on a simplified basis.
They include the French and Luxembourg operations which were disposed of in early 2015.
They do not include Quilter Cheviot which was Currency translation risk acquired in February 2015 66 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial review and risk underlying drivers of risk.
However, the feature of our Group.
As our capital is held During 2013 we began an initial approach high-level risk profile will remain unchanged: where our risks are located, the risk would to assess, measure and monitor risk culture.
market and business risk will remain the only be realised if we were to require a This involved a top-down assessment by the largest exposures.
transfer of surplus capital between regions Group control functions, based on a series during periods of stress, as outlined previously of 50 indicators covering areas such as Risk exposures in OM Asset Management in in the Principal risks and uncertainties section effectiveness of risk management, quality the US region are concentrated in asset-based of this Annual Report.
of management information, escalations, fee risk, which is part of market risk, business controls, tone from the top, governance and risk and operational risk.
This reflects the Risk and control culture remuneration incentives.
The framework has nature of the asset management business.
provided a basis for discussions with business Culture and values alignment across the A change in methodology has resulted in unit executives on areas for future focus and Group is embedded through our Code of splitting operational risk and business risk improvement.
The top-down analysis is Conduct and our ACT NOW!
Leadership compared to the June 2013 position.
supplemented with a bottom-up assessment Behaviours.
The level of embedding and informed by our annual culture survey results The Groups current overall risk profile is also alignment across the Group is measured in 2014.
We have also included a metric shown below.
This allows for additional risks at and monitored through our performance and appetite for risk culture in our risk Group level not included in the business unit management system and annual group-wide management framework.
pie charts most notably currency translation culture survey.
risk due to our significant surplus assets in Risk culture and conduct is receiving A proactive risk and control culture, which is South Africa, which in this calculation are increased supervisory and regulatory a subset of the broader business culture, is assumed to be fully transferable.
Our focus on customer culture essential to support our reputation and and values places us in a good position to Currency translation risk represents almost operation as a responsible business.
Individual respond to these developments.
a quarter of our Group risk profile.
This risk behaviours and judgements support a strong relates mainly to the translation of surplus risk governance framework.
capital from rand to sterling and is a structural Old Mutual Emerging Markets Old Mutual Group 3% 6% 24% 23% 28% 27% 42% 100% 6% 6% 11% 12% 30% 24% No te that the Old Mutual Emerging Markets business includes our exposure to Africa, Latin America and Asia The risk pr ofile of the Group is based on standalone economic capital at risk, ie the relative contribution of each risk is determined before allowing for the impact of diversification between risks, as at 31 December 2014 No chart is sho wn for Old Mutual Bermuda, which provides 2% of standalone economic capital.
Group risks provide 21% of standalone economic capital Old Mutual plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GOVERNANCE In this section we look at who is on our Board and explain how we address governance matters.
68 Governance Contents Board of Directors 70 Introduction to the Corporate Governance report by the Chairman 72 Approach to governance 73 How the Board operates 74 Leadership and effectiveness 79 Board committees 83 Investor Relations 89 AGMs 89 Share capital and dividends 90 Audit arrangements 91 Financial control environment 91 Other Directors Report matters 93 Directors Remuneration Report 94 Old Mutual plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
