Paragon Bank is funded primarily through retail deposits accepted from the general public through the internet.
It is regulated for this purpose by the Bank of England, the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority.
The working capital of the Group is provided by equity and corporate and retail bonds.
The Groups funding mix is kept under review, bearing in mind the cost and availability of appropriate sources of finance.
Profitability of the business The profitability of the business relies on: careful management of loan accounts to increase retention and reduce levels of delinquency: vigilance in the underwriting and loan acquisition processes to mitigate losses: appropriate pricing of new advances or purchased loans: arranging appropriate funding sources to sustain the business: and maintaining control of operating costs.
A2.2 PRINCIPAl RISkS AND UNCERTAINTIES There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Groups performance and could cause actual results to differ materially from previous or expected results.
To identify and control these risks the Group utilises a Risk Management Framework.
Through this framework its principal risks are identified and assessed within the key categories of Business Risk, Credit Risk, Liquidity Risk, Market Risk, Operational Risk, Conduct Risk and Pension Obligation Risk.
The Groups system of risk management includes the Credit Committee, Operational Risk Committee and Asset and Liability Committee ALCO, an experienced Group Risk function and an active internal audit function.
This risk management framework is monitored by Board level committees, the Audit Committee before June 2014 and the Risk and Compliance Committee thereafter, as described in the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report section B2.
The principal risks inherent in the Groups business model, described in section A2.1, include the following: Business risk The risk that Uk economic conditions impact on the Group Deterioration in the general economy of the UK, where all of the Groups operations are situated, might adversely affect all aspects of the Groups business.
Demand for the Groups buy-to-let products is influenced by the performance of the UKs private rented sector, which in turn is dependent on underlying factors such as house prices, supply of rental property, demographic changes and government housing policy.
Demand for all of the Groups loan products is dependent on such factors as market interest rates, employment levels and other factors that determine disposable income.
Adverse economic conditions might increase the number of borrowers that default on their loans or adversely affect funding structures, which may in turn increase the Groups costs and could result in losses on some of the Groups assets, or restrict the ability of the Group to develop in the future.
The general economic factors affecting the Group in the period going forward, together with the steps taken by the Groups management to address these issues are described in more detail in the Chairmans statement in section A1 and the Chief Executives review in section A3.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 13 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 13 16 12 2014 10:43 A Strategic report A2.2 Principal risks and uncertainties continued The risk that the Group is unable to procure new assets The UK financial services market is highly competitive and the Group faces strong competition in all of the core markets in which it operates, including its lending markets and the debt purchase and asset servicing markets.
There is a danger that the Groups profitability and or market share may be impaired if its offerings do not remain competitive.
To mitigate this risk the Group maintains relationships with its customers, business introducers and other significant participants in the markets in which it is active, as well as being active in industry-wide organisations and initiatives.
This enables market trends to be identified and addressed within the relevant business strategy.
Credit risk The risk that the Groups loan assets will not be realised in cash As a primary lender the Group faces credit risk as an inherent component of its lending and asset purchase activities.
Adverse changes in the credit quality of the Groups borrowers or arising from systematic risks in UK and global financial systems could reduce the recoverability and value of the Groups assets.
The Groups approach to the management of credit risk and the systems in place to mitigate that risk on both originated and purchased assets are described in the section of note 7 to the accounts entitled Credit Risk.
liquidity risk The risk that the Group will not be able to finance its future plans The Group relies on its access to sources of funding to finance the origination of new business, portfolio acquisitions and working capital.
If access to funding became restricted, either through market movements or regulatory or governmental action, this might result in the scaling back or cessation of some business lines.
The Groups banking business relies on retail deposits, therefore changes in market liquidity could impact the ability of the business to maintain the level of liquidity required to sustain normal business activity.
In addition there is a risk that the Group could face sudden, unexpected and large cash outflows from customer withdrawals.
The Group, through ALCO, seeks to mitigate this risk by investigating alternative sources of finance which are, or might become, available to the Group and by keeping its funding and working capital position under review.
Paragon Bank is required, under regulation, to hold prescribed levels of liquid funds in order that requests for retail withdrawals can be met.
The Groups capital position and its policies in respect of capital management are described in note 6 to the accounts.
These policies and their application are described more fully in the section of the Chief Executives review headed Capital Management within section A3.3.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 14 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 14 16 12 2014 10:43 A Strategic report Market risk The risk that net income from loan assets will be reduced Changes in interest rates may adversely affect the Groups net income and profitability.
In particular the Groups profitability is determined by the difference between the rates at which it lends and those at which it can borrow.
Therefore any changes in market interest rates which result in a mismatch can impact the Groups profit.
The steps taken by the Group to mitigate against the long term effects of interest rate movements, through the structuring of its products and the use of hedging procedures are described in note 7 to the accounts.
Conduct risk The risk that inappropriate or poor customer treatment could lead to customer detriment The Group provides a range of financial services products across several brands to consumers and small business customers.
As a result, the Group is exposed to potential conduct risk should it fail to treat its customers fairly.
This could arise, for example, if certain products fail to meet the needs of customers or customer complaints are handled ineffectively.
The manner in which financial services companies treat their customers is subject to considerable regulatory scrutiny.
There is therefore a risk that regulatory bodies may determine that the Group is not ensuring that its customers receive fair treatment.
Systemic poor customer treatment may lead to regulatory censure, reputational damage and resulting reductions in the Groups profitability.
As a result, the Group undertakes various mitigating actions in those areas of its business where the potential for this risk is greatest.
These actions include the assessment of risks and controls by business owners, separate oversight and assurance, ongoing staff training and the escalation of material risks and issues to appropriate Group risk committees.
Further information regarding the Groups approach to treating its customers fairly is given in section A5.3.
Operational risk The risk that regulation or legal changes will increase the cost or reduce the scope of the Groups activities The customers and market sectors to which the Group supplies products, and the capital markets from which it obtains much of its funding, have been subject to legislative and other intervention by UK Government, European Union and other regulatory bodies.
Certain of the Groups own activities are also subject to direct regulation.
These levels of intervention have increased over recent years and this trend is expected to continue in the future.
Current regulatory developments are discussed in the part of the Chief Executives Review headed Regulation in section A3.2.
To the extent that such actions disadvantage the Group, when compared to other market participants, or serve to depress levels of market activity or returns, they present a risk to the Group.
In order to mitigate this risk the Group has been active in explaining its position to the authorities in order that it is not inadvertently disadvantaged.
In order to ensure compliance with the various regulatory regimes it is, or may become, subject to, the Group maintains a Compliance function, as part of its risk management framework, which reviews procedures, examines compliance with them and evaluates knowledge levels across relevant functions.
The Group also ensures that all employees receive appropriate regulatory training.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 15 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 15 16 12 2014 10:43 A Strategic report A2.2 Principal risks and uncertainties continued The risk that the Groups systems will be unable to support its operational needs The activities of the Group subject it to operational risks relating to its ability to implement and maintain effective systems to process the high volume of transactions with customers.
A significant breakdown of the IT systems of the Group might adversely impact the ability of the Group to operate its business effectively.
To address these risks, the Groups Operational Risk and Compliance Committee is responsible for reviewing key risk indicators and key controls to ensure that they remain adequate for their purpose.
The Group has a business continuity plan, accredited under the International Standard ISO 22301, which is kept under regular review and is designed to ensure that any breakdown in systems would not cause significant disruption to the business.
The risk that the Group will not have the required staff to execute its plans The success of the Group is dependent on recruiting and retaining skilled senior management and personnel at all levels of the organisation.
The levels of regulation surrounding business conduct mean that highly trained operational staff are vital to the Groups ability to conduct business.
Failure to maintain the necessary skill levels across the workforce would put the Groups ability to successfully carry out its plans at risk.
The Groups employment policies, which are designed to mitigate this exposure and ensure that an appropriately skilled workforce is, and remains, in place are described within section A5.1.
Other risks The Groups exposure to other financial risks, including certain liquidity risks and market risks, and the procedures in place to mitigate those risks are described in detail in note 7 to the accounts.
The Groups exposure to risks relating to its pension arrangements are discussed in note 53 to the accounts.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 16 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
