Performance Principal Business Risks and Uncertainties At 30 April 2014 the total net assets of the Company In delivering long-term returns to shareholders the amounted to 606,633,000 2013 528,845,000.
The identification and monitoring of risk is crucial.
In addition Net Asset Value per share rose by 11.2% from 412.41p to the detailed internal controls set out in the Corporate to 458.40p.
The portfolio comprised of 130 investments Governance Report the Board seeks to identify, assess with the single largest investment being Google 7.9% and monitor risks to the Company.
The Board maintains a Risk Map and reporting structure The top investments each being over 1% of the portfolio with investment limits and restrictions appropriate to at 30 April 2014 are described on pages 32 to 35.
A full the investment objective to monitor and mitigate as far listing of all investments in the portfolio is given on as practical such risks.
The Board has identified two pages 104 to 108. principal groups of risks.
The portfolio has been analysed on pages 30 and 31 to The first group relate primarily to economic uncertainties disclose details on the distribution of investments by and the Companys particular sphere of activity of market capitalisation and by the different sectors in investing in worldwide stock markets.
The appropriateness of the investment mandate and The changes in the share price, net asset value and strategy is considered as this may lead to a depressed benchmark over the financial year are shown on page 28. share price as investors seek alternative investments or lower risk strategies.
A review and commentary are given in the Chairmans As the Companys assets comprise mainly listed Statement on pages 6 to 7 and the Investment Managers equities the principal financial risks which arise from Report on pages 8 to 27. the Companys investment activities expose it to risks such as market price, credit, liquidity, foreign currency The ongoing charges ratio shown on page 40 has been and interest rates.
calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC and constitutes the management fee in note 7 and While the portfolio is diversified across a number of the other administrative expenses as a percentage of stock markets worldwide, the investment mandate average daily net assets over the year.
is focused on technology and thus the portfolio will be more sensitive to investor sentiment and the Dividends commercial acceptance of technological developments than a general investment portfolio.
The Companys revenue varies from year to year and the Board considers the dividend position in each year in Technology stocks also have greater relative price order to maintain the Companys status as an investment volatility and are subject to the risks of developing company.
However, due to the level of accumulated technologies, competitive pressures and other factors revenue losses the Company does not expect to pay a including the acceptance of new technologies and dividend for the foreseeable future and the Directors rapid obsolescence.
do not recommend the payment of a dividend.
Many companies in the technology sector are smaller companies and are therefore subject to the risks attendant on investing in smaller capitalisation businesses.
There is significant exposure to the economic cycles of the markets in which the underlying investments operate.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 41 2 Strategic Report Section Strategic Review continued A very small element of the investment portfolio is Gearing, either through bank debt or the use of invested into unlisted securities.
These investments derivatives may be utilised from time to time are made where they offer specialist management or according to the Board and the Investment Managers investment opportunities which would otherwise not be assessment of risk and reward.
Whilst the use of available.
At the year-end this amounted to less than gearing is intended to enhance the NAV total return, 0.1% of NAV.
it will have the opposite effect when the return on the Companys investment portfolio is negative.
The Board has regard to the degree of risk which the Investment Manager incurs in order to generate the The Companys investment portfolio is actively investment returns and the effect of gearing on the managed.
The Managers investment style focuses portfolio by borrowed funds which can magnify the primarily on the investment opportunity of individual portfolio returns per share positively or negatively.
stocks and, accordingly, may not follow the makeup of the Benchmark.
This may result in returns which There is a second group of business risks in the form of are not in line with the Benchmark.
financial, including accounting and taxation, operational, legal and regulatory requirements.
Management of risks The Board mitigates the impact of these risks through The operational and accounting risks cover disruption the regular reporting and monitoring of the investment to or failure of systems and processes provided by the performance at Board meetings.
Investment Manager including: any subcontractors to which the Investment Manager has delegated a task: Analytical performance data and attribution analysis is the valuation of investments: the keeping of safe presented by the Investment Manager.
Any investment custody records and systems provided by the custodian in unquoted companies or funds is approved by the or sub custodians and: the risk that suppliers may Directors before the investment is made.
deliver substandard services that may have an impact The Board receives regular monthly reports containing on the Company or its shareholders.
financial information on the Company including gearing The taxation risk that the Company may fail to and cash balances.
continue as an investment trust or recover A day a year is set aside to conduct an annual review withholding taxes on overseas investments.
of the investment strategy and markets which is used Legal and regulatory risks include compliance with as a framework to assess portfolio construction and the FCAs Prospectus Rules, Listing Rules and performance across the remainder of the year.
The Transparency and Disclosure Rules: meeting the Board when considering the investment strategy provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and other UK, and has regard to the degree of risk which the European and overseas legislation affecting UK Investment Manager incurs in order to generate companies and compliance with accounting standards.
Further risks arise from changes in legislation and The composition and diversification of the portfolio regulations which have in recent years been substantial.
including the sales and purchases of investments is considered and individual investments discussed with The ordinary shares of the Company are listed on the Investment Manager as well as the Investment the London Stock Exchange and the share price Managers general views on the various markets is determined by supply and demand.
The shares and the technology sector in particular.
may trade at a discount or at a premium to the Companys underlying NAV and this discount or premium may fluctuate.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 42 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014
