Governance Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 93 Risks Details of the groups key risks, together with the controls and procedures in place to mitigate the risks and progress made against each risk in 2014, are as follows: Customer and conduct risk The risk of poor outcomes for customers.
The FCA replaced the OFT as the regulatory body for consumer credit on 1 April 2014.
Under the FCA regime there is increased focus on customer and conduct risk, in particular, ensuring that customers interests are at the heart of what our businesses do.
Ensuring poor customer outcomes are avoided requires focus on treating customers fairly through, in particular, designing appropriate incentive schemes, ensuring affordability and sustainability of all lending and handling vulnerable customers sensitively.
Mitigation Progress in 2014 Risk and compliance committees The risk advisory committee has oversight Customer satisfaction remains high in both CCD 93% and Vanquis Bank 84%.
within Vanquis Bank, and a customer of the divisional risk frameworks including Customer complaints remain low in all businesses.
and conduct risk committee within in particular the customer and conduct Vanquis Bank has an extremely high success rate through the Financial CCD oversee compliance with the risk frameworks.
FCA rules and guidelines, including Regular customer satisfaction surveys CCD has implemented a conduct risk framework and dashboards in each treating customers fairly.
are undertaken in all businesses.
of its businesses to capture, assess and monitor conduct risk.
12 key risks Vanquis Bank has in place a customer Vanquis Bank has had the FSA principle of were identified.
experience forum which considers treating customers fairly firmly embedded Vanquis Bank has implemented changes arising from the transfer of issues from a customers perspective into its business since it was introduced in consumer credit regulation from the OFT to the FCA, including enhanced and ensures that adequate 2007 and continues to develop policies and controls to limit detriment to customers, further support for vulnerable consideration has been given processes since the move to FCA regulation.
customers and focus on sustainability and affordability of customer debt.
Responsible lending policies, practices and Vanquis Bank has carried out risk assessments on internal and third party CCD have in place a compliance procedures in place in all businesses in order incentive schemes to identify and assess any customer risks from incentive assurance team which provides to minimise the risk of customers potentially programmes and implemented a strategy to reduce the risks.
conduct and regulatory assurance receiving loans or lines of credit that are across its business in order to ensure Vanquis Banks senior management attended customer listening sessions unaffordable or unsustainable.
that CCD is delivering fair customer with a view to identifying conduct issues throughout the product lifecycle.
All divisions have policies and procedures outcomes and meeting its Moneybarn has redesigned its broker commission schemes in light of FCA in place to ensure that financial promotions regulatory obligations.
work and guidance on incentive structures and their potential to encourage are clear, fair and not misleading.
Moneybarn is developing its formal inappropriate behaviours.
All divisions have policies and procedures approach to customer and conduct to ensure effective complaints handling is in risk as part of its transition to place, should customers voice any concerns.
Regulatory risk The risk of adverse regulatory change for the group and or the failure to comply with relevant regulatory requirements.
The risk that the group suffers a loss due to non-compliance with regulatory requirements.
There is increased focus on regulation, particularly for non-standard credit lenders.
The FCA replaced the OFT as the regulatory body for consumer credit businesses on 1 April 2014.
FCA authorisation, supervision and enforcement regimes as well as conduct rules and guidance are now fully in force.
At the end of November 2013, the government announced that it intended to legislate to introduce a cap on the total cost of credit for payday loans.
The duty imposed on the FCA was to introduce the cap by January 2015 and was formally established through the Financial Services Banking Reform Act in December 2013.
The FCA introduced a cap on the total cost of credit for high-cost short-term credit on 2 January 2015.
The only group business to which this applies is Satsuma, which continues to operate below the cap.
The FCA has published the terms of reference for its credit card market study which will enable the FCA to build a detailed understanding of the UK retail credit card market.
Mitigation Progress in 2014 A central in-house legal team is in There is ongoing constructive dialogue On 1 January 2014, the Chief Executive, Peter Crook was appointed to the place which monitors legislative with regulators.
FCA Practitioner Panel allowing the group to fully participate in discussions changes and supports divisional on the transition to FCA regulation.
Full and active participation in all relevant compliance functions.
regulatory reviews and consultation Transitionary programmes in order to achieve full FCA authorisation have Expert third-party legal advice is processes in the UK and EU.
been established in CCD, Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn.
The group does not provide payday lending.
Peter Minter, managing director of Moneybarn acquired in August 2014 Divisional compliance functions are is a member of the FCA Smaller Business Practitioner Panel.
Long relationships and established credibility in place which monitor compliance with key regulators who recognise the Ongoing proactive engagement with regulators both in the UK and the EU.
and report to divisional boards.
different dynamics of the home credit and No changes were required to the pricing of Satsuma products in order credit card sectors compared with the to comply with the FCA cap.
Vanquis Bank is currently responding to initial information requests from the FCA in its planning stage, and will continue to assist the FCA in its work.
The FCA expects to reach its conclusions towards the end of the year.
Provident Financial plc 94 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Governance continued Credit risk The risk that the group will suffer unexpected losses in the event of customer defaults.
Defaults in the non-standard market are typically higher than in more mainstream markets.
There is continued pressure on home credit customers incomes.
Any deterioration in the employment market could increase the level of defaults.
Mitigation Progress in 2014 The Vanquis Bank and CCD Home credit loans are underwritten face-to-face Vanquis Bank has continued to apply consistently tight underwriting credit committees set policy and by agents in the customers home: agents generally standards on both new accounts and credit line increases.
maintain weekly contact with the customer and Stable delinquency levels in Vanquis Bank has enabled the business to stay up to date with their circumstances: agents Credit risk is subject to ongoing generate a risk-adjusted margin of 33.2%, well ahead of the minimum commission is predominantly based on collections review in the current economic target of 30%.
not credit issued: application and behavioural climate and management The focus on collections performance in home credit has resulted in a scoring is used to assist agents underwriting: continues to maintain its tight significant improvement in credit quality and a strengthening in CCDs loans are small-sum and short-term in nature.
Satsuma used the knowledge from the home credit Comprehensive daily, weekly and The Satsuma business model has been developed by combining the business and built a bespoke scorecard using monthly reporting on KPIs.
experience and knowledge of home credit and Vanquis Bank with an proprietary knowledge data as well as additional Vanquis Bank uses highly bespoke inherent customer focus.
This has been augmented in 2014 by underwriting including full the implementation of a state of the art decisioning Moneybarn acquired in August 2014 has recently upgraded its already external bureau data: a welcome system which allows greater flexibility to improve market-leading credit scoring approach and will work with other group call is conducted prior to issuing scorecards including the use of behavioural and companies to continue to develop its capabilities.
credit: initial credit lines are low social data.
This is combined with Vanquis Banks typically 250 : customers are underwriting and collections techniques such as re-scored monthly: an intensive the initial welcome call.
Close customer contact is call centre-based operation maintained through a dedicated representative on focuses on collections.
the phone and ongoing communication through email, SMS and telephone.
Business risk The risk of loss arising from the failure of the groups strategy or management actions over the planning horizon.
Increased marketing activity from existing competitors may impact Vanquis Banks growth rates.
CCD may not be able to build the necessary capability to capture the growth opportunity in the online loans market with Satsuma.
Pressure on customers incomes from rises in fuel, food and utility costs could impact the demand for credit, increase impairment and reduce profitability in home credit.
Potential increased competition from competing formats such as online mail order credit and rent-to-own may further reduce the flow of new customers into home credit.
Increased competition or the cyclical nature of the used car finance market may limit Moneybarns ability to pursue its strategy to grow significantly with access to new funding, Mitigation Progress in 2014 A clear board strategy is in place.
The group has comprehensive monthly Despite a modest increase in marketing activity by competitors, management accounts, a monthly rolling forecast Vanquis Bank remains the most active participant in the non-standard A corporate planning conference and a biannual budgeting process.
credit card market and booked a record 430,000 accounts in 2014 CPC is held annually.
through the continued development of distribution channels.
Loans are short-term in nature and, in home Central resource is in place to credit, agents visit customers in their homes A decision was made in January 2015 to cease the Polish pilot operation develop the corporate strategy.
and are therefore able to stay up to date with as the board do not consider that a business can be built which is capable New products and processes are their circumstances.
of delivering the groups target returns in a suitable timeframe.
thoroughly tested prior to roll-out.
The group has demonstrated the ability to manage The repositioning of CCDs home credit business as a smaller but There is comprehensive the business through the deterioration seen in leaner, better-quality, more modern business focused on returns, monitoring of competitor products, the UK economy and employment market during is substantially complete.
Satsuma has begun to show early signs of its capacity to grow strongly Robust business change functions as marketing spend has been increased in Q4 2014, having built oversee change programmes.
Since acquisition in August 2014, Moneybarn has been able to grow strongly as funding constraints have been lifted.
Reputational risk The risk that an event or circumstance could adversely impact on the groups reputation, including adverse publicity from the activities of legislators, pressure groups and the media.
Media and pressure group activity increases during an economic downturn or when the company is performing well.
There is a reputational impact from increased focus on regulation, particularly of non-standard credit lenders.
Mitigation Progress in 2014 Credit and collection policies The over 130-year-old home credit business is Continued investment and focus on corporate responsibility and in the are designed to ensure that all well understood and has been subject to regular community programme.
businesses adhere to responsible regulatory review and scrutiny.
Achieved an overall rating score of 99 out of a maximum possible of lending principles.
Specialist in-house teams, external advisors and 100 in the FTSE4Good Index Series which measures the environmental, The group invests in a centrally established procedures are in place for dealing social and governance ratings of listed companies worldwide.
coordinated community with media issues.
For more information A proactive communication programme is targeted see pages 30 to 37. at key opinion formers and is coordinated centrally.
Governance Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 95 Operational risk The risk of loss resulting from IT systems failure.
Vanquis Bank is reliant on third-party IT applications and systems providers: FDI for its core customer credit card platform and Newcastle Building Society for its retail deposit platform.
The repositioning of the home credit business relies heavily on the development and effective roll-out of technology, in particular mobile technology and apps.
Moneybarn operates industry leading IT systems which are developed and maintained in-house.
Mitigation Progress in 2014 IT is managed in the businesses by experienced teams.
CCDs development and roll-out of the smartphone collections app is now at an advanced stage with over 95% of agents using the app to There is significant experience of managing third-party IT arrangements within conduct their rounds.
CCDs Chip and Pin technology development the businesses.
which will allow agents to accept electronic payments is at an advanced There are established disaster recovery procedures which are tested on a regular basis.
Tablet computers have also been introduced, providing its field Specialist project teams are used to manage change programmes.
management with a mobile office which has freed up significant time previously spent on office-based administration.
Well established change control and testing processes are established for new business developments.
The groups IT systems are hosted by proven external specialist suppliers and recovery arrangements have been extensively tested during 2014.
Insurance policies are in place to cover eventualities such as business interruption, loss of IT systems and crime.
Rigorous selection processes are in place for third-party suppliers to ensure that they are best in class.
Threats to agent safety make it unsafe to operate home collection.
Home credit agents are required to carry cash to issue credit and they receive cash as a result of their collections activities.
Mitigation Progress in 2014 Significant time and expenditure is invested in ensuring staff are safety conscious.
The group continues to spend a significant amount of time and goes to great lengths to promote and train staff on safety and provides assistance Assistance is given to agents to ensure that they are safety aware.
to agents to ensure they remain safety aware.
Induction sessions and regular updates are provided on safety awareness.
CCDs development of Chip and Pin technology will reduce the level Safety awareness weeks form part of the annual calendar.
of cash carried by agents.
Safety incidents are monitored closely by management with follow-up actions taken.
Periodic independent audits of health and safety policies and procedures are carried out by the groups insurers.
The risk of loss resulting from loss or abuse of confidential data or systems, including cyber risk and the risk that IT systems are compromised leading to financial and or reputational losses.
There continues to be a heightened focus and emphasis on cyber risk management, coordinated by the UK government including the new Cyber Hygiene standards.
Vanquis Bank, CCD and Moneybarn utilise and store sensitive personal data as part of their day-to-day operations.
There continues to be heightened focus and emphasis on data loss by the Information Commissioners Office ICO.
Mitigation Progress in 2014 IT and physical security policies are in place.
A programme of IT security upgrades within Vanquis Bank including new firewalls, new network management tools and the migration to Dedicated resources are in place to support the management of information security.
Reporting of security-related incidents to divisional risk committees.
Vanquis Bank achieved compliance with PCI DSS version 2 in 2014.
Specialist departments are in place in each business to prevent, detect and monitor fraud.
Processes surrounding physical security of data in home credit have There is regular fraud reporting to divisional boards and to the group audit committee.
Additional controls have been implemented Hierarchical field management structure and weekly agent meetings ensure a strong to manage physical data distribution supported by a training and controls environment within home credit including periodic LMS training for agents and awareness programme.
employees on data privacy, as well as a number of other regulatory training modules.
Responding to the increasing relevance of cyber and IT risk in CCD, six IT managers have been added, along with 25 people in the IT change team and 40 people in the development and testing team.
Loss of key management or reduction in staff morale impacts business performance.
The risk of loss of key staff has increased following the groups successful performance over recent years.
Mitigation Progress in 2014 Effective recruitment, retention and succession planning strategies are in place.
Detailed benchmarking of Vanquis Bank managements remuneration against industry peers.
The group has competitive remuneration and incentive structures.
Senior management turnover remained low through 2014.
Effective training and personal development plans are in place throughout the group.
CCD held an off site event to explain the new direction of CCD, build employee morale and encourage employee involvement in CCDs future.
CCD developed a new effective induction and continuous training regime for its employees in 2014.
Provident Financial plc 96 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Governance continued Risks continued Liquidity risk The risk that the group will have insufficient liquid resources available to fulfil its operational plans and or meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
Mitigation Progress in 2014 The model of borrowing long and lending short results in a positive maturity mismatch, The group has continued to make excellent progress in strengthening which means the duration of the receivables book is significantly less than the average its funding base in 2014. duration of the groups funding.
This profile significantly reduces the liquidity risk for The group exercised its option in January 2015 to extend its 382.5m the group.
syndicated bank facility by 12 months to May 2018.
A board-approved policy is in place to maintain committed borrowing facilities which Retail deposits have increased from 435m to 580m during 2014, provide funding headroom for at least the following 12 months, after assuming that representing 53% of Vanquis Banks receivables against a PRA Vanquis Bank will fully fund its receivables book through retail deposits.
The groups strategy of maintaining committed facility headroom and diversifying funding Headroom on committed facilities of 112m as at 31 December 2014 sources has resulted in a strong balance sheet position.
which, together with the recent extension of the syndicated bank facility Liquidity is managed by an experienced central treasury department.
and the retail deposits programme at Vanquis Bank, is sufficient to meet projected growth and contractual maturities until May 2018.
Vanquis Bank maintains a liquid assets buffer in line with the PRAs liquidity guidelines.
The group remains an investment grade credit, with a credit rating There is daily monitoring of liquid resources.
of BBB with a negative outlook.
Financial risk The risk that the group suffers a loss as a result of unexpected tax liabilities.
Tax authorities are placing greater emphasis on taxation controls in assessing tax risk and the associated level of scrutiny placed on companies.
Mitigation Progress in 2014 The group has a board-approved tax strategy which is aligned with its mission and core The group continues to have advance discussions with HMRC in relation values and which has been shared with HMRC.
The strategy sets out the groups overall to the various business developments impacting on the self employed approach to tax, including its tax governance framework, how tax risk management is status of agents, including the contractual changes required as a result embedded within the groups overall corporate governance structure and how the group of the transition to FCA regulation and the various strategic changes that ensures it complies with the tax obligations in the territories in which it operates.
have taken place in the home credit business since 2013.
Policies and procedures are in place which support the management of key tax risks, along With input and expertise from external advisors, and working alongside with documented systems, processes and controls to support the UK taxes which the group the in-house team, due diligence was undertaken on Moneybarn, as well pays and the preparation and submission of related tax returns.
This includes policies and as work on the tax aspects of the sale and purchase and on Moneybarns procedures which seek to ensure that the agents engaged by the home credit business conversion to IFRS post acquisition.
Processes and controls supporting the calculation Work has commenced on improving and enhancing the various systems of UK taxes and preparation of related returns are subject to annual internal audit review.
and processes in place to support Moneybarns tax returns and tax The group is committed to building open and straightforward relationships with tax compliance obligations.
authorities, including having a regular and constructive dialogue with HMRC.
This regularly Due diligence processes were completed to ensure that the group can includes advance discussion of transactions and keeping HMRC informed of key business comply with its obligations under the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance developments, particularly those that could potentially impact on self-employed status Act and similar provisions, and that Vanquis Bank can identify and report of agents.
information about retail deposit account holders who are residents or An experienced in-house team, supported by tax-aware personnel in the businesses, citizens of particular territories.
deals with all of the groups tax matters.
Advice is sought from external advisors on material transactions and whenever the necessary expertise is not available in-house.
Pension risk The risk that there may be insufficient assets to meet the liabilities of the groups defined benefit pension scheme.
The current economic environment results in increased volatility in equity markets and corporate bond yields.
Improving mortality rates in the UK.
Mitigation Progress in 2014 The defined benefit pension scheme was substantially closed to new members from The groups pension asset for accounting purposes stands at 56.0m 1 January 2003. as at 31 December 2014 2013: 29.2m.
Cash balance arrangements are now in place within the defined benefit pension scheme The company and trustees agreed to revise the investment strategy of to reduce the exposure to improving mortality rates and market volatility.
the groups defined benefit scheme by significantly reducing the holding in equities to 20%, reducing the holding in corporate bonds to 20% The pension investment strategy aims to maintain an appropriate balance of assets and increasing the holding in matching assets to 60% using leveraged between equities and bonds.
gilts to increase the extent of the liability matching to close to 100%.
New employees since 2003 have been invited to join the groups defined contribution This repositioning of investments has resulted in a fide-risking of the pension schemes which carry no investment or mortality risk for the group.
scheme by substantially reducing the inflation and interest rate risk.
The defined benefit pension scheme was amended in 2012 so that accrued pension benefits are now linked to increases in the Consumer Price Index rather than future salary increases.
This reduces the future liabilities of the scheme.
