338 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Additional information Risk factors Risk factors A number of risk factors affect Prudentials instruments can be realised is highly In particular, fixed annuities and stable operating results and financial condition subjective.
Processes to ascertain such value products written by Jackson expose and, accordingly, the trading price of its values require substantial elements of Prudential to the risk that changes in shares.
The risk factors mentioned below judgement, assumptions and estimates interest rates, which are not fully reflected should not be regarded as a complete and which may change over time : and in the interest rates credited to customers, comprehensive statement of all potential will reduce spread.
The spread is the Increased illiquidity also adds to risks and uncertainties.
The information difference between the rate of return uncertainty over the accessibility of given is as of the date of this document, Jackson is able to earn on the assets financial resources and may reduce and any forward-looking statements are backing the policyholders liabilities, capital resources as valuations decline.
made subject to the reservations specified and the amounts that are credited to below under Forward-looking statements.
Global financial markets are subject to policyholders in the form of benefit Prudentials approaches to managing uncertainty and volatility created by a increases, subject to minimum crediting risks are explained in the Group Chief Risk variety of factors, including concerns over rates.
Declines in spread from these Officers report on the risks facing our sovereign debt, general slowing in world products or other spread businesses that business and our capital strength section growth, the timing and scale of quantitative Jackson conducts, and increases in of this document.
easing programmes of central banks and surrenders arising from interest rate rises, socio-political events.
Upheavals in the could have a material impact on its Risks relating to Prudentials business financial markets may affect general levels businesses or results of operations.
Prudentials businesses are inherently of economic activity, employment and Jackson also writes a significant amount subject to market fluctuations and customer behaviour.
For example, insurers of variable annuities that offer capital or general economic conditions may experience an elevated incidence of income protection guarantees.
The value Prudentials businesses are inherently claims, lapses, or surrenders of policies, of these guarantees is affected by market subject to market fluctuations and general and some policyholders may choose to factors such as interest rates, equity economic conditions.
Uncertainty or defer or stop paying insurance premiums.
values, bond spreads and realised volatility negative trends in international economic The demand for insurance products may and policyholder behaviour.
There could and investment climates could adversely also be adversely affected.
In addition, be market circumstances where the affect Prudentials business and profitability.
there may be a higher incidence of derivatives that Jackson enters into to hedge Since 2008, Prudential has operated against counterparty failures.
If sustained, this its market risks may not fully cover its a challenging background of periods of environment is likely to have a negative exposures under the guarantees.
The cost significant volatility in global capital and impact on the insurance sector over time, of the guarantees that remain unhedged will equity markets, interest rates which in and may consequently have a negative also affect Prudentials results.
some jurisdictions have become negative impact on Prudentials business and Jackson hedges the guarantees on its and liquidity, and widespread economic its balance sheet and profitability.
variable annuity book on an economic basis uncertainty.
For example, government For example, this could occur if the and, thus, accepts variability in its interest rates remain at or near historic lows recoverable value of intangible assets for accounting results in the short term in in the US, the UK and some Asian countries bancassurance agreements and deferred order to achieve the appropriate economic in which Prudential operates.
These factors acquisition costs are reduced.
In particular, for Prudentials Group have, at times during this period, had a challenges related to market fluctuations IFRS reporting, the measurement of the material adverse effect on Prudentials and general economic conditions may Jackson variable annuity guarantees is business and profitability.
typically less sensitive to market In the future, the adverse effects of such For some non-unit-linked investment movements than for the corresponding factors would be felt principally through products, in particular those written in hedging derivatives, which are held at the following items: some of the Groups Asia operations, it market value.
However, depending on the may not be possible to hold assets which level of hedging conducted regarding Investment impairments or reduced will provide cash flows to match those a particular risk type, certain market investment returns, which could reduce relating to policyholder liabilities.
This is movements can drive volatility in the Prudentials capital and impair its ability particularly true in those countries where economic results which may be less to write significant volumes of new bond markets are not developed and in significant under IFRS reporting.
business, increase the potential adverse certain markets where regulated surrender A significant part of the profit from impact of product guarantees, or have a values are set with reference to the interest Prudentials UK insurance operations is negative impact on its assets under rate environment prevailing at the time of related to bonuses for policyholders management and profit: policy issue.
This results in a mismatch due declared on with-profits products, which Higher credit defaults and wider credit to the duration and uncertainty of the are broadly based on historical and current and liquidity spreads resulting in liability cash flows and the lack of sufficient rates of return on equity, real estate and realised and unrealised credit losses: assets of a suitable duration.
While this fixed income securities, as well as residual asset liability mismatch risk can be Prudentials expectations of future Failure of counterparties to transactions managed, it cannot be eliminated.
This profit could with Prudential that could give rise to a interest rates in these markets remain lower be lower in a sustained low interest negative impact on Prudentials financial than those used to calculate surrender rate environment.
position and on the accessibility or values over a sustained period, this could recoverability of amounts due or, for have a material adverse effect on Prudential is subject to the risk of derivative transactions, adequate Prudentials reported profit.
potential sovereign debt credit collateral not being in place: In the US, fluctuations in prevailing deterioration owing to the amounts Estimates of the value of financial interest rates can affect results from of sovereign debt obligations held instruments being difficult because, Jackson which has a significant spreadin its investment portfolio in certain illiquid or closed markets, based business, with the majority of its Prudential is subject to the risk of potential determining the value at which financial assets invested in fixed income securities.
sovereign debt credit deterioration on the Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 339 amounts of sovereign debt obligations held or otherwise alter the currencies in which may change the level of capital required in its investment portfolio.
In recent years, its obligations are denominated, this to be held by individual businesses, or rating agencies have downgraded the could have a material adverse effect on could introduce possible changes in sovereign debt of some countries.
There is Prudentials financial condition and results the regulatory framework for pension a risk of further downgrades.
arrangements and policies, the regulation Investing in sovereign debt creates of selling practices and solvency exposure to the direct or indirect Prudential is subject to the risk of requirements.
In addition, there could be consequences of political, social or exchange rate fluctuations owing to changes to the maximum level of noneconomic changes including changes in the geographical diversity of its domestic ownership by foreign companies governments, heads of states or monarchs businesses in certain jurisdictions.
Furthermore, as in the countries in which the issuers are Due to the geographical diversity of a result of interventions by governments located, and the creditworthiness of the Prudentials businesses, Prudential is in response to recent financial and global sovereign.
Investment in sovereign debt subject to the risk of exchange rate economic conditions, it is widely expected obligations involves risks not present in fluctuations.
Prudentials operations in the that there will continue to be a substantial debt obligations of corporate issuers.
In US and Asia, which represent a significant increase in government regulation and addition, the issuer of the debt or the proportion of operating profit based on supervision of the financial services governmental authorities that control the longer-term investment returns and industry, including the possibility of higher repayment of the debt may be unable or shareholders funds, generally write capital requirements, restrictions on unwilling to repay principal or pay interest policies and invest in assets denominated certain types of transactions and enhanced when due in accordance with the terms of in local currencies.
Although this practice supervisory powers.
such debt, and Prudential may have limited limits the effect of exchange rate Current EU directives, including the recourse to compel payment in the event of fluctuations on local operating results, it EU Insurance Groups Directive IGD a default.
A sovereign debtors willingness can lead to significant fluctuations in require EU financial services groups to or ability to repay principal and to pay Prudentials consolidated financial demonstrate net aggregate surplus capital interest in a timely manner may be affected statements upon translation of results into in excess of solvency requirements at the by, among other factors, its cash flow pounds sterling.
This exposure is not Group level in respect of shareholdersituation, its relations with its central bank, currently separately managed.
The test is a continuous the extent of its foreign currency reserves, currency exposure relating to the requirement, so that Prudential needs to the availability of sufficient foreign translation of reported earnings could maintain a higher amount of regulatory exchange on the date a payment is due, the impact on financial reporting ratios such as capital at the Group level than otherwise relative size of the debt service burden to dividend cover, which is calculated as necessary in respect of some of its the economy as a whole, the sovereign operating profit after tax on an IFRS basis, individual businesses to accommodate, for debtors policy toward local and divided by the current year interim example, short-term movements in global international lenders, and the political dividend plus the proposed final dividend.
foreign exchange rates, interest rates, constraints to which the sovereign debtor The impact of gains or losses on currency deterioration in credit quality and equity may be subject.
translations is recorded as a component of markets.
The EU is also developing a new Moreover, governments may use a shareholders funds within other prudential regulatory framework for variety of techniques, such as intervention comprehensive income.
Consequently, insurance companies, referred to as by their central banks or imposition of this could impact on Prudentials gearing Solvency II.
regulatory controls or taxes, to devalue ratios defined as debt over debt plus The Solvency II Directive covers their currencies exchange rates, or may shareholders funds.
The Groups surplus valuation, the treatment of insurance adopt monetary and other policies capital position for regulatory reporting groups, the definition of capital and the including to manage their debt burdens purposes may also be affected by overall level of capital requirements.
A key that have a similar effect, all of which could fluctuations in exchange rates with possible aspect of Solvency II is that the assessment adversely impact the value of an consequences for the degree of flexibility of risks and capital requirements are investment in sovereign debt even in the the Prudential has in managing its business.
intended to be aligned more closely with absence of a technical default.
Periods of economic capital methodologies, and may economic uncertainty may affect the Prudential conducts its businesses allow Prudential to make use of its internal volatility of market prices of sovereign debt subject to regulation and associated capital models, if approved by the to a greater extent than the volatility regulatory risks, including the effects Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
inherent in debt obligations of other types of changes in the laws, regulations, The Solvency II Directive was formally of issuers.
policies and interpretations and any approved by the Economic and Financial In addition, if a sovereign default or accounting standards in the markets Affairs Council in November 2009, and other such events described above were to in which it operates the Omnibus II Directive, which amended occur, other financial institutions may also Changes in government policy, legislation certain aspects of the Solvency II Directive, suffer losses or experience solvency or including tax or regulatory interpretation was adopted by the Council of the other concerns, and Prudential might face applying to companies in the financial European Union in April 2014.
As such, additional risks relating to any debt of such services and insurance industries in any of Solvency II is expected to be implemented financial institutions held in its investment the markets in which Prudential operates, as of 1 January 2016, although the portfolio.
There is also risk that public which in some circumstances may be European Commission and the European perceptions about the stability and applied retrospectively, may adversely Insurance and Occupational Pensions creditworthiness of financial institutions affect Prudentials product range, Authority EIOPA are continuing to and the financial sector generally might be distribution channels, competitiveness, develop the detailed rules and guidelines affected, as might counter party profitability, capital requirements and, that will supplement the high-level rules relationships between financial institutions.
consequently, reported results and and principles of the Solvency II and If a sovereign were to default on its financing requirements.
Also, regulators in Omnibus II Directives, including the obligations, or adopt policies that devalue jurisdictions in which Prudential operates Delegated Acts relating to third-country 340 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Additional information Risk factors Risk factors continued equivalents.
These detailed rules and also introduces two types of capital The resolution of several issues guidelines are not currently expected to be requirements: the first, a Basic Capital affecting the financial services finalised until mid to late 2015.
Further, the Requirement BCR, designed to act as industry could have a negative effective application of a number of key a minimum Group capital requirement: impact on Prudentials reported measures incorporated in the Omnibus II and the second, a Higher Loss Absorption results or on its relations with Directive, including the provisions for HLA requirement that should reflect the current and potential customers third-country equivalents, is subject to drivers of the assessment of G-SII Prudential is, and in the future may be, supervisory judgement and approval.
G-SIIs will be required to subject to legal and regulatory actions in As a result, there is a risk that the effect report on their BCR to Group-wide the ordinary course of its business, both in of the measures finally adopted could supervisors on a confidential basis from the UK and internationally.
These actions be adverse for Prudential, including 2015.
The HLA requirement will apply could involve a review of types of business potentially a significant increase in the from January 2019 to the insurance groups sold in the past under acceptable market capital required to support its business, identified as G-SIIs in November 2017. practices at the time, such as the and that Prudential may be placed at a ComFrame is also being developed requirement in the UK to provide redress competitive disadvantage to other by the IAIS to provide common global to certain past purchasers of pension and European and non-European financial requirements for the supervision of mortgage endowment policies, changes services groups.
The framework is to the tax regime affecting products, and Currently there are also a number of designed to outline a set of common global regulatory reviews on products sold and other global regulatory developments principles and standards for Group industry practices, including, in the latter which could impact the way in which supervision, and may increase the focus case, lines of business it has closed.
Prudential is supervised in its many of regulators in some jurisdictions.
One of Regulators interest may include the jurisdictions.
These include the Doddthe frameworks key components is an approach that product providers use to Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Insurance Capital Standard ICS which select third-party distributors and to Protection Act Dodd-Frank Act in the US, would be expected to form the Group monitor the appropriateness of sales made the work of the Financial Stability Board solvency capital standard under by them.
In some cases, product providers FSB on Global Systemically Important ComFrame.
This new framework is can be held responsible for the deficiencies Insurers G-SIIs and the Common expected to be implemented in 2019. of third-party distributors.
Framework for the Supervision of Various jurisdictions in which In the US, there has been significant Internationally Active Insurance Groups Prudential operates have created investor attention on the different regulatory ComFrame being developed by the compensation schemes that require standards applied to investment advice International Association of Insurance mandatory contributions from market delivered to retail customers by different Supervisors IAIS.
participants, in some instances, in the sectors of the industry.
As a result of The Dodd-Frank Act represents a event of a failure of a market participant.
reports relating to perceptions of industry comprehensive overhaul of the financial As a major participant in the majority of abuses, there have been numerous services industry within the United States its chosen markets, circumstances could regulatory inquiries and proposals for that, among other reforms to financial arise where Prudential, along with other legislative and regulatory reforms.
This services entities, products and markets, companies, may be required to make includes focus on the suitability of sales of may subject financial institutions designated such contributions.
certain products, alternative investments as systemically important to heightened The Groups accounts are prepared in and the widening of the circumstances prudential and other requirements intended accordance with current International under which a person or entity providing to prevent or mitigate the impact of future Financial Reporting Standards IFRS investment advice, with respect to certain disruptions in the US financial system.
applicable to the insurance industry.
The employee benefit and pension plans, The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on International Accounting Standards Board would be considered a fiduciary and Prudentials businesses is not currently clear, IASB introduced a framework that it would subject the person or entity to as many of its provisions have a delayed described as Phase I, which permitted certain regulatory requirements.
There is a effectiveness and or require rulemaking or insurers to continue to use the statutory risk that new regulations introduced may other actions by various US regulators over basis of accounting for insurance assets have a material adverse effect on the sales the coming years.
and liabilities that existed in their of the products by Prudential and increase In July 2013 the FSB announced the jurisdictions prior to January 2005.
Prudentials exposure to legal risks.
initial list of nine insurance groups that have In July 2010, the IASB published its first In Asia, regulatory regimes are developing been designated as G-SIIs of which Exposure Draft for its Phase II on insurance at different speeds, driven by a combination Prudential was one.
Designation as a G-SII accounting, which would introduce of global factors and local considerations.
has led to additional policy measures being significant changes to the statutory There is a risk that new requirements are applied to the designated group.
Based on reporting of insurance entities that prepare introduced that challenge current practices, the policy framework released by the IAIS, accounts according to IFRS.
A revised or are retrospectively applied to sales made and subsequent guidance papers, these Exposure Draft was issued in June 2013. prior to their introduction.
additional policy measures include The IASB is currently re-deliberating the enhanced Group-wide supervision, Exposure Draft proposals in light of Litigation, disputes and regulatory effective resolution measures of the Group comments by the insurance industry and investigations may adversely affect in the event of failure, loss absorption, and other respondents.
The timing of the final Prudentials profitability and higher loss absorption capacity.
Prudential proposals taking effect is uncertain but not financial condition is monitoring the development, and expected to be before 2019.
Prudential is, and may be in the future, potential impact, of the framework of Any changes or modification of IFRS subject to legal actions, disputes and policy measures and is continuing to accounting policies may require a change regulatory investigations in various engage with the PRA on the implications in the future results or a retrospective contexts, including in the ordinary course of the policy measures and Prudentials adjustment of reported results.
of its insurance, investment management designation as a G-SII.
The G-SII regime and other business operations.
These legal Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 341 actions, disputes and investigations may Schroders, Invesco Perpetual and Fidelity.
Adverse experience in the operational relate to aspects of Prudentials businesses Jacksons competitors in the US include risks inherent in Prudentials and operations that are specific to major stock and mutual insurance business, including failure in Prudential, or that are common to companies, mutual fund organisations, information technology and cybercompanies that operate in Prudentials banks and other financial services security, could disrupt its business markets.
Legal actions and disputes may companies such as AIG, AXA Financial Inc, functions and have a negative impact arise under contracts, regulations including Allianz, Prudential Financial, Lincoln on its results of operations tax or from a course of conduct taken by National, MetLife and Aegon.
Operational risks are present in all of Prudential, and may be class actions.
Prudential believes competition will Prudentials businesses, including the risk Although Prudential believes that it has intensify across all regions in response to of direct or indirect loss resulting from adequately provided in all material aspects consumer demand, technological advances, inadequate or failed internal and external for the costs of litigation and regulatory the impact of consolidation, regulatory processes, systems and human error or matters, no assurance can be provided that actions and other factors.
Prudentials ability from external events.
Prudentials business such provisions are sufficient.
Given the to generate an appropriate return depends is dependent on processing a large number large or indeterminate amounts of damages significantly upon its capacity to anticipate of transactions across numerous and sometimes sought, other sanctions that and respond appropriately to these diverse products, and is subject to a might be applicable, and the inherent competitive pressures.
number of different legal and regulatory unpredictability of litigation and disputes, regimes.
Further, because of the long-term it is possible that an adverse outcome could, Downgrades in Prudentials financial nature of much of the Groups business, from time to time, have an adverse effect on strength and credit ratings could accurate records have to be maintained for Prudentials reputation, results of operations significantly impact its competitive significant periods.
position and damage its These factors, among others, result relationships with creditors or in significant reliance on, and require Prudentials businesses are trading counterparties significant investment in, information conducted in highly competitive Prudentials financial strength and credit technology IT, compliance and other environments with developing ratings, which are used by the market to operational systems, personnel and demographic trends, and continued measure its ability to meet policyholder processes.
In addition, Prudential profitability depends upon obligations, are an important factor outsources several operations, including managements ability to respond affecting public confidence in Prudentials a significant part of its UK back office and to these pressures and trends products and, as a result, its competitiveness.
customer-facing functions as well as a The markets for financial services in the Downgrades in Prudentials ratings, as number of IT functions, resulting in reliance UK, US and Asia are highly competitive, a result of, for example, decreased upon the operational processing with several factors affecting Prudentials profitability, increased costs, increased performance of its outsourcing partners.
ability to sell its products and continued indebtedness or other concerns, could Although Prudentials IT, compliance profitability, including price and yields have an adverse effect on its ability to and other operational systems and offered, financial strength and ratings, market products, retain current processes incorporate controls designed to range of product lines and product quality, policyholders, and on the Groups financial manage and mitigate the operational risks brand strength and name recognition, flexibility.
In addition, the interest rates associated with its activities, there can be investment management performance, Prudential pays on its borrowings are no assurance that such controls will always historical bonus levels, developing affected by its credit ratings, which are in be effective.
Due to human error, among demographic trends and customer appetite place to measure the Groups ability to other reasons, operational incidents do for certain savings products.
In some of its meet its contractual obligations.
happen periodically and no system or markets, Prudential faces competitors that Prudential plcs long-term senior debt process can entirely prevent them are larger, have greater financial resources is rated as A2 by Moodys, A by although there have not been any material or a greater market share, offer a broader Standard & Poors and A by Fitch.
These such events to date.
For example, although range of products or have higher bonus ratings have a stable outlook.
Prudential has not identified a material rates.
Further, heightened competition for Prudential plcs short-term debt failure or breach in relation to its legacy and talented and skilled employees and agents is rated as P-1 by Moodys, A-1 by other IT systems and processes to date, it with local experience, particularly in Asia, Standard & Poors and F1 by Fitch.
has been, and likely will continue to be, may limit Prudentials potential to grow its The Prudential Assurance Company subject to computer viruses, attempts at business as quickly as planned.
Limiteds financial strength is rated Aa2 unauthorised access and cyber-security In Asia, the Groups principal negative outlook by Moodys, AA stable attacks.
Prudentials legacy and other IT competitors in the region are international outlook by Standard & Poors and AA systems and processes, as with operational financial companies, including global life stable outlook by Fitch.
systems and processes generally, may be insurers such as Allianz, AXA, AIA, and Jacksons financial strength is rated susceptible to failure or breaches.
Manulife, and multinational asset managers AA by Standard & Poors and Fitch, A1 by Being part of the financial services such as J P Morgan Asset Management, Moodys, and A by AM Best.
These sector, Prudential and its business partners Schroders, HSBC Global Asset ratings have a stable outlook.
are increasingly exposed to the risk that Management and Franklin Templeton.
Prudential Assurance Co Singapore third parties may attempt to disrupt the In a number of markets, local companies Pte Ltds financial strength is rated AA availability, confidentiality and integrity have a very significant market presence.
stable outlook by Standard & Poors.
This could result in loss Within the UK, Prudentials principal In addition, changes in methodologies of trust from Prudentials customers, competitors include many of the major and criteria used by rating agencies could reputational damage and financial loss.
retail financial services companies and result in downgrades that do not reflect The cyber-security threat continues to fund management companies including, changes in the general economic conditions evolve globally in sophistication and in particular, Aviva, Legal & General, or Prudentials financial condition.
potential significance as Prudential Lloyds Banking Group, Standard Life, increasingly moves to digitalise its business 342 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Additional information Risk factors Risk factors continued and provide on-line business operations for Withdrawal Benefit GMWB of Jacksons Prudential operates in a number its customers.
While a focus of Prudential is variable annuity business.
If mortality of markets through joint ventures on being proactive to the exposure faced improvement rates significantly exceed the and other arrangements with third from emerging threats through continually improvement assumed, Prudentials results parties including in China and reviewing and enhancing its IT environment of operations could be adversely affected.
India, involving certain risks that to remain robust and secure, together with A further example is the assumption Prudential does not face with respect increasing its ability to detect system that Prudential makes about future to its consolidated subsidiaries compromise, and recover should such an expected levels of the rates of early Prudential operates, and in certain markets incident occur, there can be no assurance termination of products by its customers is required by local regulation to operate, that such events will not take place with persistency.
This is particularly relevant through joint ventures including in China adverse consequential effects on to its lines of business other than its UK and India.
For the Groups joint venture Prudentials business and financial position.
annuity business, especially Jacksons operations, management control is Such events could, among other things, portfolio of traditional and variable exercised jointly with the venture harm Prudentials ability to perform annuities.
The level of control exercisable necessary business functions, result in the assumptions reflect recent past experience by the Group depends on the terms of the loss of confidential or proprietary data for each relevant line of business.
joint venture agreements, in particular, the exposing it to potential legal claims and Any expected change in future persistency allocation of control among, and continued regulatory sanctions and damage its is also reflected in the assumption.
If actual cooperation between, the joint venture relationships with its business partners and levels of future persistency are significantly participants.
Prudential may face financial, customers.
Similarly, any weakness in different than assumed, the Groups results reputational and other exposure including administration systems such as those of operations could be adversely affected.
regulatory censure in the event that any of relating to policyholder records or meeting Furthermore, Jacksons variable annuity its joint-venture partners fails to meet its regulatory requirements or actuarial products are sensitive to other types of obligations under the joint venture, reserving processes could have a material policyholder behaviour, such as the encounters financial difficulty, or fails to adverse effect on its results of operations take-up of its GMWB product features.
comply with local or international regulation during the effective period.
Another example is the impact of and standards such as those pertaining to epidemics and other effects that cause the prevention of financial crime.
In addition, Adverse experience relative to the a large number of deaths.
Significant a significant proportion of the Groups assumptions used in pricing products influenza epidemics have occurred three product distribution is carried out through and reporting business results could times in the last century, but the likelihood, arrangements with third parties not significantly affect Prudentials results timing, or the severity of future epidemics controlled by Prudential, and is dependent of operations cannot be predicted.
The effectiveness of upon continuation of these relationships.
In common with other life insurers, the external parties, including governmental A temporary or permanent disruption to profitability of the Groups businesses and non-governmental organisations, in these distribution arrangements, such as depends on a mix of factors including combating the spread and severity of any through significant deterioration in the mortality and morbidity levels and trends, epidemics could have a material impact on reputation, financial position or other policy surrenders and take-up rates on the Groups loss experience.
circumstances of the third party or material guarantee features of products, investment failure in controls such as those pertaining performance and impairments, unit cost As a holding company, Prudential to the prevention of financial crime could of administration and new business is dependent upon its subsidiaries adversely affect the results of operations acquisition expense.
to cover operating expenses and of Prudential.
Prudential needs to make assumptions dividend payments about a number of factors in determining The Groups insurance and investment Prudentials Articles of Association the pricing of its products, setting reserves, management operations are generally contain an exclusive jurisdiction for reporting its capital levels and the conducted through direct and indirect provision results of its long-term business operations.
Under Prudentials Articles of Association, For example, the assumption that As a holding company, Prudentials certain legal proceedings may only be Prudential makes about future expected principal sources of funds are remittances brought in the courts of England and Wales.
levels of mortality is particularly relevant from subsidiaries, shareholder-backed This applies to legal proceedings by for its UK annuity business.
In exchange for funds, the shareholder transfer from a shareholder in its capacity as such against a premium equal to the capital value of their long-term funds and any amounts that may Prudential and or its directors and or its accumulated pension fund, pension be raised through the issuance of equity, professional service providers.
It also applies annuity policyholders receive a guaranteed debt and commercial paper.
to legal proceedings between Prudential payment, usually monthly, for as long as Certain of the subsidiaries are restricted and its directors and or Prudential and they are alive.
Prudential conducts rigorous by applicable insurance, foreign exchange Prudentials professional service providers research into longevity risk, using data from and tax laws, rules and regulations that can that arise in connection with legal its substantial annuitant portfolio.
In some circumstances, proceedings between the shareholder and of its pension annuity pricing and reserving this could limit Prudentials ability to pay such professional service provider.
This policy, Prudentials UK business assumes dividends to shareholders or to make provision could make it difficult for US and that current rates of mortality continuously available funds held in certain subsidiaries other non-UK shareholders to enforce their improve over time at levels based on to cover operating expenses of other shareholder rights.
adjusted data and models from the members of the Group.
Continuous Mortality Investigations CMI as published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
Assumptions about future expected levels of mortality are similarly relevant to the Guaranteed Minimum Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 343 Changes in tax legislation may result in adverse tax consequences Tax rules, including those relating to the insurance industry, and their interpretation, may change, possibly with retrospective effect, in any of the jurisdictions in which Prudential operates.
Significant tax disputes with tax authorities, and any change in the tax status of any member of the Group or in taxation legislation or its scope or interpretation could affect Prudentials financial condition and results of operations.
