Business review Capital and risk management Capital and risk management 169 Overview 176 Risk governance 180 Risk appetite and culture 184 Conduct risk 187 Operational risk 191 Regulatory risk 193 Reputational risk 195 Capital management 216 Liquidity and funding risk 231 Credit risk 274 Balance sheet analysis 298 Market risk 323 Country risk 331 Pension Risk 332 Business risk 333 Strategic risk 168 Business review Capital and risk management Overview 170 Presentation of information 170 Business model and associated risks 171 Risk coverage 174 Top and emerging risk scenarios 169 Business review Capital and risk management Overview The products are delivered through a diverse array of channels, including Presentation of information extensive branch networks, in-store branches and call centres, in addition Except as otherwise indicated by an asterisk, information in the to online and mobile channels.
Capital and risk management section pages 168 to 334 is within the The main sources of earnings are interest income from lending and fee scope of the Independent auditors report.
Disclosures in this section income from transactional and other services.
Given the low interest rate include disposal groups in relevant exposures unless otherwise indicated.
environment in both the UK and the US, its net interest margin, that is, Refer to pages 166 and 167 for the Analysis of balance sheet pre and the difference between the interest it earns from lending and the interest post-disposal groups.
it pays on deposits, has been under pressure.
In order to offset this Business model and associated risks pressure, work is underway to reduce costs and increase non-interest RBS aims to become a bank that its customers and all other stakeholders income.
It intends to do so by focusing on Personal & Business RBS is reducing costs through rationalisation, integration and Banking PBB, Commercial & Private Banking CPB and Corporate & simplification.
For example, PBB is rationalising its service delivery Institutional Banking CIB customers, in its main market of the UK.
By channels and simplifying the operations that support them.
The other delivering only services that meet their needs, it aims to achieve an franchises are taking similar steps.
Accordingly, RBS plans to simplify its services as well as the processes it uses to deliver them, enabling RBS to provide RBS also owns a number of businesses which it is divesting as it seeks customers with better value services.
It aims to become the number one to refocus on its UK customers and reduce its risk profile as well as to bank in the UK for customer service, trust and advocacy by 2020. comply with regulatory requirements.
It is in the process of selling its stake in Citizens Financial Group Inc CFG, a subsidiary offering loan At present RBS serves approximately 24 million customers worldwide.
and investment products, together with transactional services, to UK PBB offers individuals and small businesses a variety of traditional customers in the US.
Similarly, it is committed to selling Williams & Glyn, retail banking products, including current and savings accounts, which provides retail and commercial banking services in the UK, in the residential mortgages and credit cards, while CPB provides both next few years.
Other businesses identified for divestment and windbusinesses and high-net-worth individuals with loan products and down include the international private banking activities of CPB and RBS investment services.
Both are focused on the UK.
CIB offers wholesale Securities Inc respectively.
Finally, RBS continues to reduce the assets banking services, including debt financing and fixed income trading, to held in RCR refer to page 150 for further details.
These divestment and corporations and financial institutions across a wide range of countries.
rationalisation projects expose it to execution and strategic risk.
Ulster Bank, part of PBB, offers loan and investment products, as well as transactional services, to individuals and businesses in Ireland.
Finally, RBS is also exposed to a range of other risks through its customer businesses including pension, business, regulatory, reputational and strategic risk.
This is set out in the Risk coverage section and illustrated by the concentration of risk-weighted assets RWAs by segment below.
unaudited 170 Business review Capital and risk management Risk coverage The main risk types faced by RBS are presented below.
For further information, refer to pages 184 to 334.
Risk type How the risk arises 2014 overview Conduct and Conduct risk can result in fines and reputational RBS continued to remediate historical conduct issues, while also restructuring legal risk damage if customers are not treated in line with their its customer-facing businesses and support functions around the needs of its and other stakeholders expectations.
Actions taken by RBS to address underlying control deficiencies included strengthening significantly the systems and controls governing RBSs Conduct risk exists across all stages of RBSs LIBOR submissions, and simplifying RBSs retail product offering and sales relationships with its customers, from sales through processes.
The conduct risk framework was also further developed, with the service delivery to post-sales processes.
It also exists embedding of a new Conduct and Regulatory Affairs C&RA operating model, in the activities RBS undertakes to manage its and the orientation of C&RAs assurance coverage and testing towards business, from the development of business customer outcomes.
strategies, through governance and human resource management.
Conduct risk also exists if RBS does The impact of conduct issues resulted in litigation and conduct costs remaining not take effective action to prevent fraud, bribery and high at 2.2 billion in 2014, albeit lower than the 3.8 billion recorded in 2013. money laundering.
Regulatory risk Regulatory risk arises from RBSs regulatory, The level of regulatory risk remained high as policymakers and regulators business or operating environments and from how continue to strengthen regulations and supervision in response to the events of RBS responds to them.
RBS will in future focus CIBs business model on its leading positions in UK rates, debt capital markets and foreign exchange: this will leave RBS well-placed to implement the ring-fencing requirements, in 2019.
Operational risk Operational risk may arise from a failure to manage RBSs transformation plan is material and complex affecting all business areas operations, transactions and assets appropriately.
It and functions simultaneously and so has the potential to increase operational may arise from human error, an inability to deliver risk profile at least in the short term.
Significant investments were made to change on time or adequately, or the unavailability of improve technology resilience for core banking services, operating practices technology services or the loss of customer data.
and risk management across the three lines of defence.
In particular, Fraud and theft are sources of operational risk, as is enhancements were made to cyber security programmes, mitigating a number the impact of natural and man-made disasters.
also arise from a failure to take appropriate measures to protect assets or take account of changes in law.
Capital Capital adequacy risk arises from inefficient Key milestones achieved in 2014 included the sell down of the first tranche of adequacy risk management of capital resources.
CFG: run down of the RCR and CIB assets: and the sell down of the RBS N. V. AFS portfolio.
A 3.1 billion improvement in CET1 capital and a 73 billion reduction in RWAs resulted in the CET1 ratio improving during the year by 260 basis points from 8.6% to 11.2%.
Risk reduction strategies contributed to the RWA reduction, 40 billion in CIB and 25 billion in RCR.
The improvement in CET1 capital reflected profit of 0.7 billion from continuing operations, 0.6 billion gains on available-for-sale securities, share issuance of 0.5 billion and lower regulatory deductions primarily relating to deferred tax assets 1.0 billion and prudential valuation adjustment 0.4 billion.
RBSs current Pillar 2A requirement is 3.5% of RWAs at 31 December 2014.
From 1 January 2015, 56% of the total Pillar 2A or 2.0% of RWAs will be met from CET1 capital.
Based on capital that is required to be held to meet the overall financial adequacy rule, including holding current estimates of Pillar 2A constant, RBS estimates that its fully phased CET1 maximum distributable amount MDA requirement would be 10.5% in 2019.
Assuming a 13% a steady state CET1 capital ratio is achieved, RBS currently estimates that it would have a 2.5% headroom to MDA trigger in 2019.
A significant reduction of 142 billion or 13% in the leverage exposure to 940 billion and a year on year increase in Tier 1 capital 100% CET1 currently contributed to an 80 basis points improvement in leverage ratio from 3.4% to 4.2%.
Full implementation of the 2014 Basel III leverage ratio framework, particularly on securities financing transactions, also contributed to the leverage exposure reduction.
unaudited 171 Business review Capital and risk management Overview continued Risk type How the risk arises 2014 overview Liquidity and Liquidity and funding risk arise through the maturity transformation Liquidity metrics remained strong reflecting balance sheet and funding risk role that RBS performs.
It is exposed to capital adequacy risk if it risk reduction as well as growth in UK PBB deposits: the manages its capital resources inefficiently.
liquidity coverage ratio improved to 112%: the net stable funding ratio was 121%: and the liquidity portfolio of 151 Liquidity and funding risk arises from RBSs day-to-day operations.
billion covered short-term and total wholesale funding of 28 billion and 90 billion by more than five and 1.5 times respectively.
Based on its assessment of the Financial Stability Boards proposals, RBS may issue 3 - 5 billion per annum of qualifying debt between 2015 - 2019 to meet future total loss absorbing capital requirements.
Reputational risk Reputational risk can arise from the conduct of either RBS as a The most material threat to RBSs reputation continued to whole or that of the individuals it employs: from the activities of originate from historical and more recent conduct deficiencies.
customers and the countries in which they operate: from the products RBS has been the subject of investigations and review by a RBS offers and the transactions it supports: and from its operations number of regulators, some of which have resulted in fines and and infrastructure.
Credit risk The most significant source of credit risk is lending.
RBS offers a RBSs credit risk portfolio continued to improve with an overall number of lending products where it has an obligation to provide reduction in exposure, an improvement in credit quality and a credit facilities to a customer.
A further significant source of credit risk material provision release in 2014.
These improvements were arises from activities in the derivatives and securities financing driven by supportive economic and market conditions in the UK transaction markets, which result in counterparty credit risk the risk and Ireland, better liquidity and increased collateral values, and of financial loss arising from the failure of a customer to meet also reflected improvements in credit risk measurement.
obligations that vary in value by reference to a market factor.
RBS Balance sheet credit exposure after credit mitigation decreased holds some debt securities generally for liquidity management by 9% to 353 billion and credit RWAs fell by 62 billion or purposes, and is exposed to credit risk as a result.
It is also exposed 17% to 295 billion primarily reflecting risk reduction and RCR to credit risk from off-balance sheet products such as trade finance disposal strategy.
The wind-down of CIBs US asset-backed activities and guarantees.
products business contributed to a 13 billion decrease in asset-backed securities, now at 25 billion, an 86 billion reduction on the 2008 peak of 111 billion.
Impairment provisions of 18.0 billion, down 7.2 billion, covered risk elements in lending of 28.2 billion, down 11.2 billion, by 64%.
Commercial real estate lending fell by 9.3 billion to 43.3 billion, of which 13.3 billion was in risk elements in lending with a provision coverage of 68%.
Favourable market conditions, particularly in Ireland, resulted in impairment releases of 3.6 billion more than offsetting new impairment charges of 2.4 billion.
This led to a net release of 1.2 billion, of which 1.3 billion was in RCR and 0.4 billion in Ulster Bank, partly offset by net impairment charges of 0.3 billion in UK PBB and 0.2 billion in CFG.
Market risk The majority of RBSs traded market risk exposure arises in CIB and RBSs traded market risk profile decreased significantly, with RCR through transactions in financial instruments including debt market risk limits being reduced across all businesses, in some securities, loans, deposits and equities, as well as securities instances by 50-60%.
Average trading value-at-risk VaR financing and derivatives.
decreased significantly during the year to 27.8 million, 35% of the 2013 average, reflecting risk reductions in CIB and RCR, The majority of its non-traded market risk exposure arises from retail as well as the effect of a more comprehensive economic view and commercial banking activities in all franchises from assets and of risk from the incorporation of credit and funding valuation liabilities that are not classified as held for trading.
adjustments in the VaR calculation.
Market risk RWAs also decreased by 6.3 billion to 24.0 billion.
unaudited 172 Business review Capital and risk management Risk type How the risk arises 2014 overview Pension risk RBS is exposed to pension risk through its defined benefit schemes The triennial actuarial funding valuation of the Main scheme worldwide and the variations in their value.
The five largest schemes was agreed in May 2014 and showed an excess in the value of represent around 96% of pension liabilities.
The largest is the Royal liabilities over the value of assets of 5.6 billion at 31 March Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund Main scheme and this is 2013: a ratio of 82%.
In 2014, various pension stress-testing the principal source of pension risk.
initiatives were undertaken, both on internally defined scenarios and those to meet integrated Prudential Regulation Authority and European Banking Authority stress testing requirements.
Country risk Country risk arises from possible economic or political events in each RBS maintained a cautious stance as many clients continued country to which RBS has exposure, and from unfavourable to reduce debt levels.
Total eurozone net balance sheet conditions affecting daily operations in a country.
exposure decreased by 5 billion or 5% to 97.6 billion.
Within this amount, eurozone periphery exposures decreased by 10 It has the potential to affect all parts of RBSs portfolio across billion, or 25%, to 31 billion, primarily in Spain, reflecting the wholesale and retail activities that are directly or indirectly linked to disposal of legacy liquidity portfolio bonds, and in Ireland and the country in question.
Total exposure to Greece was 0.4 billion but only 120 million after the effect of collateral and guarantees.
Limits for The activities of several customer businesses, particularly CIB but Russia and Ukraine were adjusted, additional credit restrictions also Ulster Bank and CFG, expose RBS to country risk.
were placed on new business and exposures were reviewed against international sanctions.
Business risk Business risk exists at all levels of the organisation and is generated RBS reduced its business risk profile as it curtailed riskier at the transaction level.
It is affected by other risks RBS faces, which activities in CIB, made disposals through RCR, and announced could contribute to any adverse changes in the banks revenues or an intensified cost management programme.
Strategic risk Strategic risk arises from strategic decisions that fail to reflect the In early 2014, RBS announced the results of a strategic review operating environment, or which do not take adequate account of with a defined plan to shift the business mix towards the UK execution challenges.
These include decisions related to RBS and the retail and commercial banking segments, with the aim products and services which have implications for profitability, risk, of a lower risk profile.
The year saw good progress, with results the customer base, and for business growth.
in general exceeding targets and run-down or sell-off of noncore assets ahead of schedule.
Capital ratios increased considerably, a significant step towards targeted levels of financial strength which, when attained, will provide RBS with more strategic options.
However, RBS continued to work through the impact of tougher regulatory regime on banks.
unaudited 173 Business review Capital and risk management Overview continued Impact on RBS Top and emerging risk scenarios Achievement of strategic objectives in general, more specifically its ability As part of the risk management process, top and emerging risk scenarios to generate income and retain high quality personnel, and its strategy, are identified and monitored.
These are events that, should they structure and attractiveness to investors, may all be affected to varying materialise, would lead to a significant unexpected negative outcome, degrees in a range of election-related scenarios.
thereby causing RBS as a whole, or a particular business, to fail to meet one or more strategic objectives.
In assessing the potential impact of risk Mitigants materialisation, both financial and reputational considerations are taken RBS actively monitors, and considers responses to, varying UK election into account.
outcomes to ensure that it is well prepared for all eventualities.
Management is concerned with a range of risk scenarios, but some have Regulatory and legal risks attracted particular attention from senior management during the past i Risks to income, costs and business models arising from existing and year.
These were grouped into three broad categories: future regulatory requirements or decisions RBS faces potentially sustained increases in regulatory capital needs, but Macro-economic risks and other external risks: also risks related to regulatory intervention that affect its business models.
These include: the results of a review of the personal current Regulatory and legal risks: and account and small business banking markets: Independent Commission on Banking ring fencing proposals and US Intermediate Holding Risks related to operations.
Company requirements: and Risk Data Aggregation and Reporting.
Further information on these and other risks facing RBS is detailed in Impact on RBS Risk factors on page 474.
RBS risks increased capital requirements, reduced income or raised costs due to business model changes and fines, remediation costs or The top and emerging risks were as follows: legal action if it fails to comply with regulatory requirements.
Its reputation may also suffer.
Macro-economic and other external risks i Risks related to the macro-economy Mitigants RBS remains vulnerable to changes in the external economic RBS considers proposed or potential regulatory requirements in strategic environment.
Among other scenarios, the following could have a material and financial planning rounds and plans accordingly.
negative impact: a recession in the UK in any of our other major markets: a resumption of the eurozone crisis including a worsening of the situation ii Risks to income, costs and business models arising from existing and in Greece : global deflation: large house price falls in the UK: and major future regulatory requirements specifically related to conduct geopolitical instability.
RBS continues to manage issues related to its past business conduct.
Remediation costs for some of these could remain high, while the impact Impact on RBS of outcomes of other reviews remains uncertain.
Moreover, it faces The ability to hit strategic targets could be reduced owing to multiple ongoing scrutiny of its business conduct, particularly towards retail effects, including lower-than-expected revenues, increases in customers, and of its ability to embed a strong appreciation of risk and impairments and a material deterioration in key prudential metrics.
Exiting good conduct across the bank.
non-strategic businesses or portfolios could be disrupted by market volatility.
Impact on RBS RBS risks fines, remediation costs, legal action and reputational damage, Mitigants but also lower income or higher expenses due to business model RBS has improved its capital, liquidity and leverage ratios and has changes.
A number of higher risk portfolios have been exited or reduced.
Stress testing is used to inform strategic Mitigants planning.
RBS continues to work to deal with past conduct breaches.
Major programmes are in place to ensure that future conduct meets the ii The effect of the run-up to, and the result of, the UK general election expectations of external stakeholders and to ensure that a strong and on performance and strategy pervasive risk culture is embedded throughout RBS.
Political party statements suggest that the election outcome will affect matters that are material to RBSs strategy, including banking levy rates, banking sector competition and remuneration, the approach to sale of the public stake, and the UKs position in the EU.
Of note is the potential for a referendum on the UKs membership of the EU during the next parliament, which would increase macro-economic and operational uncertainty.
unaudited 174 Business review Capital and risk management Risk related to operations iii Impaired performance due to an inability to recruit or retain suitable i Increased losses arising from a failure to execute successfully major staff projects RBS is undergoing significant organisational change, the result of a need RBS has a number of transformational, execution and IT development to implement new business strategies and respond to a changing projects under way, the successful conclusion of which are essential to external environment.
The pace of change, coupled with the associated meet new regulatory and strategic requirements.
These new uncertainty may cause experienced staff members to leave and requirements affect its organisational structure, its business strategies, its prospective staff members not to join.
Although these risks concern all information technology systems, its operational processes and its product customer businesses, they particularly affect CIB and CFG.
Given the number, scale and complexity of these projects, there is a risk that it will not complete them successfully.
Impact on RBS If it cannot retain or attract the necessary staff members, the RBS may be Impact on RBS unable to implement its business strategies or meet regulatory Failure to complete these projects successfully would affect RBSs ability requirements on time, or at all.
It may also experience control failures.
Its to achieve its strategic objectives.
It may also incur regulatory fines, lose reputation may suffer as a result.
market share and suffer damage to its reputation.
Mitigants Mitigants RBS has communicated expected changes in its organisational structure RBS is working to implement change in line with its project plans while to members of staff, implementing plans aimed at minimising unexpected assessing the risks to implementation and taking steps to mitigate those staff losses.
It is also working to develop and implement an enhanced risks where possible.
ii An increase in RBSs obligations to support pension schemes iv Increased losses arising from cyber attacks RBS has established various pension schemes for its employees as a RBS has experienced cyber attacks, which are increasing in frequency result of which it has incurred certain obligations as sponsor of these and severity across the industry.
This risk affects all customer schemes.
If economic growth stagnates and interest rates remain low as businesses.
a result, the value of pension scheme assets may not be adequate to fund the pension schemes liabilities.
All of the businesses are exposed to Impact on RBS this risk.
A successful cyber attack could lead to fraudulent activity or the loss of customer data.
RBS could experience significant losses as a result of the Impact on RBS need to reimburse customers, pay fines or both.
Further, a successful RBSs pension schemes combined deficit had risen by 2.1 billion at the cyber attack could cause significant damage to its reputation.
most recent valuation, requiring RBS to set aside additional capital in support.
Additional capital required if the deficit widened further would Mitigants depend on the size of the deficit, the efficacy of management actions RBS has participated in an industry-wide cyber attack simulation.
It has undertaken to address it, and the regulatory view of those actions.
also initiated a large-scale programme to improve controls over user RBS increased its cash contributions to the schemes to address the access.
It has reviewed its websites and taken steps to rationalise them, increased deficit.
Similarly, additional contributions required if the deficit put additional anti-virus protections in place and taken steps to educate widened further would depend on the size of the deficit.
RBS undertakes staff on information protection.
a number of stress tests and scenario analyses on its material defined v Increased losses arising from the failure of information technology benefit pension schemes each year as part of its risk measurement systems framework.
The information technology systems are complex and at risk of disruption.
Recovering from failure can be challenging.
Mitigants The trustee is responsible for the investment of the Main schemes Impact on RBS assets, which are held separately from RBSs own assets.
To restrict A failure of information technology systems could lead to an inability to liability increases, defined benefit pension schemes are closed to new process transactions or provide services to its customers.
Should a members and terms for existing members have been altered.
Deficitfailure not be rectified promptly, it might lose funding, be subject to fines, closing payments are spread over ten years to reduce the strain on incur remediation costs or face legal action.
Its reputation might also income.
Mitigants A major investment programme has significantly improved the resilience of the systems and more benefits are expected.
It has improved back-up system sustainability and created a shadow bank able to provide basic services if needed.
It is also improving the documentation of critical business functions.
unaudited 175 Business review Capital and risk management Risk governance 177 Governance structure 178 Three lines of defence 179 Management structure 176 Business review Capital and risk management Risk governance Governance structure RBS is committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance in every aspect of its business, including risk management.
A key aspect of the Boards responsibility as the main decision-making body is the setting of risk appetite refer to page 181 for more information on risk appetite to ensure that the levels of risk RBS is willing to accept in the attainment of its strategic business and financial objectives are clearly understood.
The Board delegates authority for risk management to specific committees.
The risk governance structure and the main purposes of each of the committees is illustrated below: unaudited 177 Business review Capital and risk management Risk governance continued Second line of defence - Oversight and control Three lines of defence The second line of defence includes RBS Risk Management and Conduct The three lines of defence model is used industry-wide for the and Regulatory Affairs.
It provides a clear set of principles by which to implement a cohesive operating model, one that defines accountabilities Responsibilities include: and responsibilities for managing risk across the organisation.
Owning and developing the risk and control policies, limits and tools for the business to use to discharge its responsibilities.
First line of defence - Management and supervision The first line of defence includes customer franchises, Technology and Overseeing and challenging the management of risks and controls.
Operations and support functions such as HR and Communications.
Responsibilities include: Leading the design, development and communication of the bank's Owning, managing and supervising, within a defined risk appetite, risk culture and appetite.
the risks which exist in the business area.
Analysing the aggregate risk profile and ensuring that risks are Ensuring appropriate controls are in place to mitigate risk: balancing being managed to the desired level risk appetite.
control, cost, customer service and competitive advantage.
Providing expert support and advice to the business on risk Ensuring that the culture of the business supports balanced risk management.
decisions and compliance with policy, laws and regulations.
Providing senior executives with relevant management information Ensuring that the business has effective mechanisms for identifying, and reports and escalating concerns where appropriate.
reporting and managing risk and controls.
Third line of defence - Internal Audit Responsibilities include: Providing assurance on the key risks to the organisation by assessing the entire control framework.
Holding RBS Risk Management accountable for establishing an unaudited appropriate risk management framework.
178 Business review Capital and risk management Management structure RBSs management structure and the main elements of each role are illustrated below.
Notes: 1 RBS Risk management The RBS Chief Risk Officer CRO leads RBS Risk Management.
The CRO reports directly to the Chief Executive and the Board Risk Committee, with a right of access to the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee.
RBS Risk Management is an independent function, structured by risk discipline to facilitate the effective management of risk.
In 2014, Risk Management, which had previously been spread across the different business segments, re-organised itself into five functional areas: Operational Risk, Support Functions & Divested Businesses: Credit Risk: Market Risk: Enterprise-Wide Risk Management and Risk Infrastructure.
Directors of Risk were also appointed for each of the franchises and for Services.
The streamlined structure consolidates risk information, allowing for more efficient decision-making.
The directors of risk functions are responsible for RBS-wide risk appetite and standards within their respective disciplines and report directly to the CRO.
CROs are in place for certain jurisdictions and legal entities to meet local regulatory and governance requirements.
They lead the risk management teams locally in support of functional risk heads where teams follow a functional operating model.
The key CRO roles report directly to the RBS CRO.
Risk committees in the customer businesses oversee risk exposures arising from their business activities and focus on ensuring that they are adequately monitored and controlled.
2 Conduct and Regulatory Affairs Conduct & Regulatory Affairs C&RA is led by the Chief Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Officer, who reports directly to the Chief Executive.
It is responsible for providing oversight of conduct risk and regulatory risk at RBS, and does so by setting bank-wide policy and standards, providing advice to each customer business, and ensuring that the mitigating controls are suitable.
C&RA also provides leadership of the banks relationships with its regulators.
The functional heads the directors of Remediation, Compliance Services, RBS Americas, Financial Crime, Regulatory Affairs and Advisory report directly to the Chief Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Officer.
Each is responsible, where appropriate, for the bank-wide risk appetite and standards of their respective areas: A Chief Compliance Officer in each franchise, reporting to the Director of C&RA Advisory, provides advisory support to assist businesses in their management of conduct, regulatory affairs and financial crime.
unaudited 179 Business review Capital and risk management Risk appetite and culture 181 Risk appetite 181 Strategic risk objectives 182 Risk appetite measures 183 Culture, values and remuneration 180 Business review Capital and risk management Risk appetite and culture Strategic risk objectives Risk appetite Risk management plays an integral role in the delivery of strategic goals.
Risk appetite is both a key business tool and an integral part of risk The implementation of a stronger and more effective culture of risk management.
It is aligned with RBSs strategic objectives, aiming to management and control provides the platform necessary to address strike an optimal balance between building a sustainable risk profile and vulnerabilities, rebuild on core strengths and position RBS on a creating long-term value for customers, investors and wider stakeholders.
sustainable and profitable path for future growth.
The risk appetite framework seeks to ensure that each business can withstand significant deteriorations in economic and market conditions.
Financial strength and resilience are at the heart of the strategic plan.
RBS has defined this level of robustness as that which is capable of The Board reviews and approves the risk appetite framework and targets achieving and sustaining a standalone credit rating i. e. without annually, which establishes the level and types of risks RBS is able and government support that is in line with those of its strongest international willing to take in order to meet its: peers.
Strategic objectives - The strategic plan is built on the core Given this central aim, the Board has set out four key strategic objectives, foundations of serving customers well, building a sustainable risk aligned with the strategic plan: profile and creating long-term value for its shareholders: and Maintain capital adequacy.
To ensure there is sufficient capital Wider obligations to stakeholders - If RBS is safe and sound and resources to meet regulatory requirements and to cover the potential puts serving customers at the heart of its thinking, it will also perform for unexpected losses in its asset portfolio.
well for its owners, employees, regulators and communities.
To ensure that strategic growth is Risk appetite is cascaded and embedded across RBS.
The risk appetite based around a longer-term risk-versus reward consideration, with framework provides each business with a greater understanding of significantly lower volatility in underlying profitability than was seen acceptable risk levels, aligning commercial strategies with the most during the financial crisis.
effective use of financial resources, such as capital and funding.
The risk appetite framework allows RBS to focus on its key business strengths Ensure stable and efficient access to funding and liquidity.
To and competitive advantages over the long term.
ensure that there is sufficient funding to meet its obligations, taking account of the constraint that some forms of funding may not be available when they are most needed.
To ensure that stakeholders have confidence in RBSs ability to attain its strategic objectives and establish and maintain an appropriate business culture and operational controls.
Each objective is essential in its own right, but also mutually supportive of the others.
The strategic risk objectives are the bridge between the RBSwide business strategy and the frameworks, limits and tolerances that are used to set risk appetite and manage risk in the business franchises on a day-to-day basis.
unaudited 181 Business review Capital and risk management Risk appetite and culture continued Risk appetite supports value creation in a safe, sustainable way.
It is Risk appetite measures embedded within the annual planning and budgeting process.
The risk Risk appetite starts with the strategic goals and risk philosophy set by the implications of business strategies are assessed to ensure that those Board and is cascaded through key targets, limits and risk tolerances that strategies will not cause RBS to exceed agreed risk appetite.
A range of influence decision making at all levels.
different but complementary tools has been developed to measure whether strategic plans are consistent with risk appetite, to test broader The risk appetite framework is based on four main pillars: what if questions and to assess the impact of changes in key assumptions: Business and financial targets - RBS has set long-term targets for capital ratio, leverage ratio, loan:deposit ratio, the return on tangible Stress testing - assesses how earnings, capital and funding equity and cost:income ratio.
These are the broad boundaries within positions change under an unfavourable, yet plausible, scenario.
Stress scenarios can differ by theme, geographical location or severity.
Quantitative risk appetite targets - Risk appetite is also aligned with potential risk exposures and vulnerabilities under severe but Economic capital - provides complementary insights, with a breadth plausible stress conditions.
Quantitative targets, to be met under of understanding of risk profile changes and tail risks across stress conditions, are set around the strategic risk objectives for millions of different modelled scenarios.
maintaining capital adequacy, delivering stable earnings growth and ensuring stable and efficient access to funding and liquidity.
Sensitivity analysis - provides ready reckoners around changes in key variables.
It offers a high-level view on questions such as what Qualitative risk appetite targets - The fourth strategic risk objective if gross domestic product worsened by a further 1%, identifying of maintaining stakeholder confidence covers qualitative aspects certain tipping points where the banks risk profile moves outside relating to the culture of risk management and controls and meeting appetite.
Stakeholders include customers, employees, investors, societies and communities.
Effective processes for reporting the results have also been developed, presenting the Board and senior management with a more holistic and Risk control frameworks and limits - Risk control frameworks set dynamic view of key risk exposures.
detailed tolerances and limits for material risk types e. g. credit risk and market risk that are used to manage risk on a day-to-day basis.
Risk appetite statements These limits support and are required to be consistent with the highRisk appetite is set at RBS-wide level then cascaded and embedded level risk appetite targets.
Each franchise is required to develop, own and manage a risk appetite statement aligned with the banks risk appetite The framework is supported by a programme of communication, that: engagement and training rolled out across RBS to embed a wide understanding of the purpose and value of an effective risk appetite.
Covers the limits and tolerances in place for all identified material risks: and Enables each business to understand its acceptable levels of risk.
By setting a clear risk appetite and embedding a strong risk culture throughout its businesses, RBS can identify, measure and control risk exposures and respond effectively to shocks.
Each franchise is responsible for ensuring its strategic plans are consistent with its approved risk appetite.
unaudited 182 Business review Capital and risk management Risk control frameworks and limits These business principles cover conduct-related issues as well as wider Risk control frameworks and their associated limits are an integral part of business activities.
They focus on desired outcomes, with practical the risk appetite framework and a key part of embedding risk appetite guidelines to align the values with commercial strategy and actions.
The targets in day-to-day risk management decisions.
The risk control embedding of business principles facilitates sound decision making and a frameworks manage risk by expressing a clear tolerance for material risk clear focus on good customer outcomes in the moments that matter.
It is types that is aligned to business activities.
aligned with the people management and remuneration processes to support a positive and strong risk culture through appropriate incentive The Group Policy Framework directly supports the qualitative aspects of structures.
risk appetite, helping to rebuild and maintain stakeholder confidence in RBSs risk control and governance.
Its integrated approach is designed to A simple decision-making guide called the YES check has been ensure that an appropriate standard of control is set for each of the included in the Code of Conduct.
It is a simple, intuitive set of five material risks it faces, with an effective assurance process put in place to questions, designed to ensure the values guide day-to-day decisions: monitor and report on performance.
Risk appetite has its own policy standard within the Group Policy Framework.
This standard sets out clear Does what I am doing keep our customers and RBS safe and roles and responsibilities to set, measure, cascade and report secure?
performance against risk appetite, and provides assurances that business is being conducted within approved risk limits and tolerances.
Would customers and colleagues say I am acting with integrity?
Culture, values and remuneration Am I happy with how this would be perceived on the outside?
Objectives for risk culture The establishment of a strong risk culture is essential to the realisation of Is what I am doing meeting the standards of conduct required?
RBSs ambition to build a truly customer-centric bank.
A strong risk culture is a key part of ensuring risk appetite is effectively embedded In five years time would others see this as a good way to work?
The link between risk appetite and strategic objectives encourages people at all levels of the business to think about risk, how Each question is a prompt to think about the situation and how it fits with they identify it and how they manage it.
It incorporates the quantitative RBSs values.
It ensures that employees can think through decisions that and qualitative aspects of risk and uses both absolute and relative risk do not have a clear answer, guiding the judgements behind their measures.
Risk culture policies Training A core principle behind the development of the risk appetite framework is Across the risk management function, a series of events and activities that risk appetite contributes to a strong risk management culture, in have been undertaken to bring alive the banks values and culture for which risk is clearly and meaningfully aligned with business behaviours employees.
This is supported by performance management processes and outcomes.
RBSs values - of serving customers, working together, that hold individuals to account for poor behaviour and reward the doing the right thing and thinking long term - act as a clear starting behaviour that supports the banks purpose, vision and values.
point for a strong and effective risk culture.
A wide range of communication and engagement activities detailed below has been RBS Risk Management runs a Risk Academy which helps to train staff undertaken to discuss the meaning of each value with employees and and to spread a common risk culture across the bank.
Training plans are how they affect and guide day-to-day activities.
aligned with Risk function strategy to ensure staff have the skills and capabilities to support business and to meet changing regulatory and The embedding of RBSs values into a strong risk culture is supported by policy requirements.
a revised and more focused Code of Conduct.
The Code provides guidance on expected behaviour and sets out the standards of conduct Risk-based key performance indicators that support the values.
It explains the effect of decisions that are taken RBS-wide remuneration policy requires remuneration to be aligned with, and describes the principles that must be followed.
and to support, effective risk management.
The policy ensures that the remuneration arrangements for all employees reflect the principles and standards prescribed by the UK Remuneration Code.
For further information refer to page 91. unaudited 183 Business review Capital and risk management Conduct risk 185 Definition 185 Sources of risk 185 Key developments in 2014 185 Governance 186 Controls and assurance 186 Risk appetite 186 Risk monitoring and measurement 184 Business review Capital and risk management Conduct risk The conduct risk framework was also further developed.
Key elements Definition included: Conduct risk is the risk that the behaviour of RBS and its staff towards customers, or in the markets in which it operates, leads to unfair or Orientating C&RAs assurance coverage and testing towards inappropriate customer outcomes and results in reputational damage, customer outcomes, and away from controls and policy financial loss or both.
The damage or loss may be the result of breaches compliance: of regulatory rules or laws, or of failing to meet customers or regulators expectations.
Establishing a Conduct Advisory function with the expertise and skills to effectively interrogate and assess business models, Sources of risk strategy and products: provide oversight, challenge and technical Conduct risk exists across all stages of RBSs relationships with its policy advice: and make selective risk-based interventions: customers, from the development of its business strategies, through governance arrangements, to post-sales processes.
Activities through Transferring accountability for RBS-wide customer remediation to which conduct risk may arise are diverse and include product design, C&RA, and the establishment of a specialist remediation centre to marketing and sales, complaint handling, staff training, and handling of deliver fair, consistent and timely customer outcomes: confidential and non-public price sensitive information.
Conduct risk also exists if RBS does not take effective action to prevent fraud, bribery and Developing product risk management tools to improve the money laundering.
customer outcomes of new products: Key developments in 2014 Ensuring the focus of RBSs culture is always about delivering The level of conduct risk remained high throughout 2014.
As set out in good customer outcomes.
Although a long-term project, RBS is the Litigation, investigations and reviews section on page 430, RBS and confident that it has already resulted in material changes to the certain members of it are party to legal proceedings and are subject to way business is conducted: and investigation and other regulatory action in the UK, the US and other jurisdictions.
Strengthening the whistleblowing framework by aligning the policy with RBS values.
RBS continued to remediate historical conduct issues, while also restructuring its customer-facing businesses and support functions Governance around the needs of its customers.
Specific actions taken by RBS to Effective conduct risk management is a commercial imperative for the address underlying control deficiencies included: bank: customers, clients and counterparties demand it as a precursor to building trust.
It also reflects the developing regulatory environment in the Strengthening significantly the systems and controls governing UK, as well as the increasing focus of overseas regulators on conduct RBSs LIBOR submissions.
An independent and ring-fenced rate risk.
setting team was created, and new preventative and detective controls were also put in place, including independent monitoring C&RA is responsible for defining appropriate standards of conduct, and and statistical checking of submissions.
A new rate-setting board for designing the framework for managing conduct risk, driving was also created to oversee the submission process.
adherence, and overseeing remediation activity.
It also provides appropriate controls, challenge and oversight to ensure good customer Simplifying RBSs retail product offering and sales processes: outcomes.
In so doing, C&RA acts as a second line of defence control enhancing training for, and controls in relation to, customer function.
advisors: and improving management information on product sales.
Key elements of the governance structure are set out below: Embedding a new Conduct and Regulatory Affairs C&RA The C&RA Executive Committee considers emerging issues operating model and governance structure, by integrating former material to the C&RA strategy, and implements Board and divisional and functional resources to drive consistent bank-wide Executive Committee risk management policy decisions: and standards for managing conduct risks more efficiently: The Financial Crime Accountable Executive Committee accountable to the Executive Risk Forum ensures that the customer businesses and the Services function fulfil strategic objectives by identifying and managing their financial crime risks effectively.
unaudited 185 Business review Capital and risk management Conduct risk continued Risk monitoring and measurement Controls and assurance C&RA works closely with the customer facing businesses to assess Under the RBS Policy Framework, C&RA owns 26 conduct risk policies, business models, strategy and products and influence better outcomes grouped under employee, corporate and market conduct, and: and for customers.
Each policy is designed to provide both highlevel direction and RBS-wide requirements.
The policies and chapters are RBSs senior boards and committees receive updates on conduct risk designed to ensure RBS meets its regulatory obligations: and to provide exposures and action plans through monthly C&RA initiated reporting.
the necessary clarity for staff on their conduct obligations.
The reporting has been enhanced to be more focused, forward-looking and action-oriented.
Assurance and monitoring activities are essential to help measure the extent to which RBS manages its delivery of specific customer outcomes.
An annual Money Laundering Reporting Officers Report is submitted to During 2014, in addition to the provision of risk-based assurance over key the Board and the FCA.
Covering the operation and effectiveness of the conduct, financial crime, systems and infrastructure topics, the C&RA systems and controls in place to comply with Anti-Money Laundering law assurance function provided RBS-wide assurance in support of Financial and regulation, it also describes RBSs AML framework.
In addition, it Conduct Authority FCA attestations, principally those relating to covers the systems and controls in place to prevent the financing of complaints and anti-money laundering AML.
Assurance activities are terrorism and to ensure compliance with sanctions as well as embargoes pre-emptive in highlighting conduct issues and influencing the business to and export controls imposed by the UN, governments and other re-consider the impact of their approach: and are flexible so as to achieve supranational bodies.
The Group Audit Committee is provided with an annual Whistleblowing Risk assessments are used to identify material conduct risks and key Update Report.
It details cases by internal reporting categories based on controls across all business areas.
The risk assessment process is the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 category, identifies underlying designed to confirm that risks are effectively managed and prioritised and causal and subject trends, and highlights the outcome of investigations controls are tested to verify that they operate effectively.
Scenario analysis is used to assess the impacts of extreme but plausible C&RA is working with the business franchises to define the data required conduct risks including financial crime.
The scenarios assess the to ensure appropriate customer outcomes are delivered and are exposures that could significantly affect RBSs financial performance or compliant with the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision principles reputation and are an important component in the operational risk for effective risk data aggregation and risk reporting.
RBSs ability to framework and capital model.
aggregate, analyse and report conduct risk internally is being enhanced so it can assess the effectiveness of mitigating actions.
Risk appetite RBS has articulated a customer-focused vision to be the leading UK bank for trust, customer service and advocacy by 2020.
In line with this, C&RA has evolved from focusing on policy compliance towards considering the wider business implications of placing customers at the heart of the business.
A conduct risk appetite framework is being developed to ensure that RBSs risk profile is based on its strategic risk objectives, with quantitative targets supplemented by qualitative criteria focused on attaining good customer outcomes, upholding market integrity, meeting stakeholder expectations and promoting a strong risk culture.
Work to refine and embed the risk appetite framework and associated control processes continues in 2015. unaudited 186 Business review Capital and risk management Operational risk 188 Definition 188 Sources of risk 188 Key developments in 2014 188 Risk governance 189 Controls and assurance 189 Risk appetite 189 Risk identification and assessment 189 Risk mitigation 189 Risk monitoring 189 Risk measurement 187 Business review Capital and risk management Operational risk Following the major IT incident that occurred in 2012, a programme was Definition created to address the weaknesses identified, with its core objective to Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed deliver improvements to the technology processes, as well as the internal processes, people and systems, or external events.
It arises from efficiency and resilience of those processes, through a number of key day-to-day operations and is relevant to every aspect of the business.
In 2014, this programme improved technology resilience for core banking services, operating practices and risk management across Operational risks may have a direct customer or reputational impact for the three lines of defence.
Significant investments were made in example, a major IT systems failure or fraudulent activity or both.
upgrading infrastructure and in improving a broad range of processes and Operational risk failures may also have a link with conduct risk as tools.
evidenced by customer complaints made in connection with Payment Protection Insurance.
The threat to the security of RBSs information from cyber attacks is a key focus for operational risk.
During 2014 specific enhancements were made Sources of risk to cyber security programmes, mitigating a number of identified Operational risk may arise from a failure to manage operations, vulnerabilities.
RBS continues to monitor this threat closely as it transactions and assets appropriately.
It may arise from forms of human continues to develop rapidly.
error, an inability to deliver change on time or adequately, or the unavailability of technology services or the loss of customer data.
Fraud Risk governance and theft are sources of operational risk, as is the impact of natural and A strong operational risk management function is vital to support the man-made disasters.
It may also arise from a failure to take appropriate banks profitability.
Better management of operational risk directly measures to protect assets or take account of changes in law.
supports RBSs strategic objective of improving stakeholder confidence and is vital for stability and reputational integrity.
Key developments in 2014 RBSs transformation programme is material and complex, affecting all The operational risk function, an independent second line of defence, business areas and functions simultaneously, and so it has the potential plays a leadership role and seeks to achieve a robust risk management to increase the operational risk profile at least in the short term.
The risks framework and culture across the bank.
The Director of Operational Risk, associated with transformation are being managed in accordance with Support Functions and Divested Businesses, who leads the function, the operational risk framework and the programme management reports to the Chief Risk Officer.
The operational risk function is responsible for the design and The transformation programme affects many of its people and their tasks.
The Operational Risk Policy and associated RBS is monitoring the resourcing impacts arising from this, as it standards are incorporated in the Group Policy Framework and provide recognises that employee capacity and engagement are essential to direction for the consistent identification, assessment, management, delivering change and completing day-to-day activities.
monitoring and reporting of operational risk.
A key component of the programme was the implementation in 2014 of a The Operational Risk Executive Committee OREC, which is a subnew functional operating model for operational risk to ensure it is committee of the Executive Risk Forum, acts on all operational risk managed in a more standardised and consistent manner.
This includes reviewing the exposure against risk appetite: operating model supplemented activity undertaken by the customer identifying and assessing material operational risks, encompassing both businesses to increase understanding of the operational risk profile and current and emerging material risks: reviewing and monitoring the the actions required to mitigate risks outside of appetite.
operational risk profile: and reviewing and approving material policy changes.
Work started on enhancing the operational risk management framework ORMF.
This will continue in 2015 and beyond.
The intention is to improve the ability to identify and assess operational risk by delivering an ORMF that is implemented consistently.
unaudited 188 Business review Capital and risk management Controls and assurance The process is designed to confirm that risks are effectively managed Control Environment Certification CEC is used to review and assess the and prioritised in line with the stated risk appetite.
Controls are tested internal control framework.
Members of the senior management team are frequently to verify that they remain fit for purpose and operate required to provide a bi-annual assessment of the robustness of the effectively.
Risk assessments are typically commenced in a workshop, internal control environment including: bringing together subject matter experts and key stakeholders from across the bank.
Financial and non-financial risk impacts are captured Compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance and a risk appetite decision is made.
Code: In 2014 there was a continued focus on implementing and embedding Appropriateness of the risk frameworks and governance structures risk assessments across the bank.
This included the strengthening of of each customer-facing business and support function to help links between risk assessments and other elements of the operational ensure RBS operates within risk appetite: risk framework.
In 2015, the risk framework will be further enhanced by the introduction of end-to-end risk assessments which will help provide a Adequacy of reporting on the material risks for the business against fuller understanding of the risk profile of the banks key services and appetite: and products.
Action plans to mitigate those risks outside of appetite.
The New Product Risk Assessment NPRA process aims to ensure that the risks represented by new products and material variations to existing CEC outcomes are reported to the Board, the Group Audit Committee products are identified and assessed before launch.
There is now a and the Board Risk Committee, and are shared with external auditors.
requirement to demonstrate that all products provide fair outcomes to customers.
Further enhancements to the NPRA process are under review Risk appetite and are expected to be introduced in 2015.
The objective of operational risk management is not to remove operational risk altogether, but to manage it to an acceptable level, taking Risk mitigation into account the customer journey and the cost of minimising the risk Risks are mitigated by a suite of regularly assessed controls but, where against the resultant reduction in exposure.
Strategies to manage the residual exposure is outside of risk appetite, the relevant customer operational risk include avoiding undertaking a particular type of activity business must decide how to reduce it.
This is carried out in accordance or operating in a particular market: transferring the risk to a third party: with the operational risk management process, the objective of which is accepting the risk as a cost of doing business: or mitigating the risk by the adoption of a consistent approach to the management of issues and implementing controls.
actions to mitigate risks outside appetite.
The process continues to be enhanced, with analysis of common issues on an aggregated basis Operational risk appetite measures and frameworks are reviewed across the bank, to identify emerging trends and to make improvements annually by the Executive Risk Forum ERF.
The operational risk to the quality of data.
appetite statement comprises a number of specific measures of risk, including operational risk capital adequacy and earnings volatility based RBS purchases insurance to provide the business with financial on the relationship between operational risk losses and the banks protection against specific losses and to comply with statutory or estimated gross income.
It also includes metrics covering control contractual requirements.
To confirm that RBS operates within the set risk appetite, the high-level statement is aligned with strategic risk Risk monitoring objectives.
Monitoring and reporting are part of RBSs operational risk management processes, which aim to ensure that risks and issues are identified, Operational risk appetite measures will be further refined in 2015, with escalated and managed quickly.
Emerging risks, and actions taken to particular focus on developing an integrated operational risk appetite mitigate them, are discussed at OREC.
These are reported to the Board framework which will be used to translate high-level objectives into and the ERF.
Exposures specific to each business are communicated achievable risk appetite measures across RBS.
through monthly risk and control reports that are discussed at business risk committees.
Risk identification and assessment Risk assessments are used to identify and assess material operational Risk measurement risks and key controls across all business areas.
To provide a consistent Scenario analysis is used to assess the impact of extreme but plausible categorisation of risks and controls across RBS and to support operational risks and is a key input to the capital model.
It provides a identification of risk concentrations, all risks and controls are mapped to forward-looking basis for managing risk exposures, with a structured and the risk taxonomy and the control catalogue.
Risk assessments are consistent approach to scenario scoping and measurement.
Coupled with refreshed at least annually to ensure they remain relevant and capture internal and external loss data, it has a major impact on the estimated any emerging risks.
Scenarios, along with internal and external loss data, are a key input into the capital model and influence the capital required significantly.
unaudited 189 Business review Capital and risk management Operational risk continued As a true risk sensitive measurement, this model is being rolled out Scenarios are run in their own dedicated workshops, bringing business across RBS to ensure better information is available to businesses to and risk and control experts together, thereby providing management help manage their risk profile.
with a deeper understanding of risk exposures.
Event and loss data management RBS further refined its approach to assessing the impact of the The event and loss data management process aims to ensure economic cycle on its operational risk losses by assessing the impact of compliance with standard requirements for the management of the Prudential Regulation Authoritys published Anchor 6 scenario.
This operational risk events and the capture of loss data.
It also entails describes the impact of a series of country-specific shocks on levels of reporting operational risk events that meet defined threshold criteria to operational risk losses, and also capital adequacy requirements for RBS senior management.
RBS has continued to focus on the timely and operational risk.
accurate capture of operational risk losses: the use of a single RBS-wide repository of operational risk events: and the escalation of material The impact of the Prudential Regulation Authoritys Anchor 6 scenario on operational risk events.
operational risk capital, as calculated under the standardised approach, was also projected based on the outputs of the banks stress-testing All losses and recoveries associated with an operational risk event are exercises.
Operational risk impacts are also assessed based on reported against their financial accounting date.
A single event can result additional economic stress scenarios developed internally.
This is used in multiple losses or recoveries that may take time to crystallise.
Losses as part of the overall stress input to capital planning and internal capital and recoveries with a financial accounting date in 2014 may relate to adequacy assessment process ICAAP.
events that occurred, or were identified in, prior years.
Operational risk is measured utilising an economic Capital model.
This Number and value of events model is also included within the ICAAP assessment to ensure that At 31 December 2014, four categories accounted for around 94% of all capital requirements are appropriately calculated using internal loss, operational risk events.
These were: i clients, products and business external loss and scenario data.
practices: ii execution, delivery and process management: iii fraud: and iv employment practices and workplace safety.
This proportion was broadly in line with that of 2013 Value of events A small number of operational risk events contribute a high percentage of At 31 December 2014, events aligned with clients, products and business the total losses.
In 2014, around 1% of the events contributed 96% of the practices accounted for 95% of the losses compared to 98% in 2013. losses.
This was in line with that of 2013.
The losses in this category resulted from new conduct-related provisions, and further increased provisions relating to Payment Protection Insurance Capital and Interest Rate Hedging Products, together with regulatory settlements.
RBS calculates the Pillar 1 capital requirement for operational risk using the standardised approach.
For 2014, RBSs minimum Pillar 1 capital unaudited requirement was 2.9 billion 2013 - 3.4 billion.
190 Business review Capital and risk management Regulatory risk 192 Definition 192 Sources of risk 192 Key developments in 2014 192 Governance 192 Risk appetite 192 Risk monitoring and measurement 192 Risk mitigation 191 Business review Capital and risk management Regulatory risk Board and Executive Committee oversight of changes to regulatory Definition requirements is supported by the MCAC.
Regulatory risk is the risk of material loss or liability, legal or regulatory C&RAs Regulatory Developments team maintains and develops RBS sanctions, or reputational damage, resulting from the failure to comply Political, Legislative and Regulatory Environment Policy and supporting with or adequately plan for changes to relevant official sector policy, documents, together with associated processes, tools and governance.
It laws, regulations, or major industry standards, in any location in which also oversees the regulatory developments operating framework, to RBS operates.
ensure it meets the needs of all businesses and functions, and maintains Sources of risk the Relationships with Regulators Policy.
Regulatory risk arises from the regulatory, business or operating Risk appetite environment and from RBSs response to it.
RBS believes that maintaining a strong regulatory risk framework is Key developments in 2014 fundamental to ensuring sustainable growth, rebuilding its reputation and The level of regulatory risk remained high during 2014, as policymakers maintaining stakeholder confidence.
Accordingly, its stated regulatory risk and regulators continued to strengthen regulation and supervision in and compliance risk appetite is for no material or widespread breaches of response to the events of 2007 and 2008.
This resulted in high levels of rules, expectations, regulations or laws, individually or in aggregate.
interaction between RBS and supervisory authorities through meetings, However, it also recognises that genuine errors occur, and so it accepts requests for information, visits and investigations, as well as in policy limited, non-material regulatory risk and subsequent loss.
developments and proposals for new rules.
Risk monitoring and measurement Governance C&RA ensures appropriate reporting of all material regulatory reviews C&RA maintains well-established policies and supporting processes to and other regulatory developments worldwide to the appropriate bankensure timely identification of, and effective responses to, changes in wide committees, including the Board, the Group Audit Committee, and official requirements affecting the bank.
C&RA also maintains a the Board Risk Committee.
Half-yearly reporting to the Group Audit structured and open engagement with regulators.
That engagement Committee also captures all material investigations and tracks the status underpins a range of other policies and processes that address on-going of, and trends in, key regulatory relationships.
compliance with regulatory obligations refer to the section on Conduct risk on page 184 for further information.
The level of regulatory risk remained high during 2014, as policymakers and regulators continued to strengthen regulation and supervision in To help manage the risks, the Mandatory Change Advisory Committee response to the events of 2007 and 2008.
This resulted in high levels of MCAC, chaired by C&RA, was established.
The MCAC reports to the interaction between RBS and supervisory authorities through meetings, Bank-Wide Investment Committee, and comprises representatives of the requests for information, visits and investigations, as well as in policy banks customer businesses and functions.
The MCAC acts as the developments and proposals for new rules.
reception committee for reviewing externally mandated changes that Risk mitigation may affect RBS and recommending appropriate responses, including the C&RA also communicates information on regulatory developments and timely mobilisation of change implementation activities.
In doing so, it follow-up engagement with customer-facing businesses and functions, agrees business or function owners of individual risks: and commissions helping them identify and execute any required mitigating changes to and reviews impact assessments from customer businesses and strategy or business models.
The key regulatory policies are reviewed functions.
Early identification and effective management of changes in legislation and regulation, as well as other requirements, is critical to the successful mitigation of regulatory risk.
All regulatory and compliance changes are managed to ensure timely compliance readiness.
Those changes assessed as having a high or medium-high impact are managed especially closely, with the aim of mitigating the impact through, for instance, changes to strategy or business activities, or external engagement.
unaudited 192 Business review Capital and risk management Reputational risk 194 Definition 194 Sources of risk 194 Key developments in 2014 194 Governance 194 Risk appetite 194 Risk monitoring and measurement 194 Risk mitigation 193 Business review Capital and risk management Risk appetite Reputational risk The Reputational and ESE Risk management team assists business Definition franchises, as well as other control functions, to articulate risk appetite to Reputational risk is the risk to RBSs public image owing to a failure to manage reputational risk.
Risk appetite positions for certain issues or meet stakeholders expectations in relation to performance, conduct and markets, for example tax or money remitters, are developed through business profile.
Stakeholders include customers, investors, employees, conducting research on legislation, regulation and potential reputational suppliers, government, regulators, special interest and consumer groups, risk factors, undertaking peer analysis and engaging with internal and media and the general public.
external stakeholders to discuss the issues.
The risk appetite positions Sources of risk classify risks associated with a particular area into Normal, Sensitive and Reputational risk can arise from the conduct of either RBS as a whole or Prohibited.
Customers or transactions designated Sensitive require that of the individuals it employs: from the activities of customers and the enhanced due diligence and escalation to a reputational risk forum or countries in which they operate: from the products RBS offers and the individual while those rated Normal can be approved by the business transactions it supports: and from its operations and infrastructure.
The team also helps set risk appetite to manage reputational risk related to business engagements and customer Key developments in 2014 relationships in some sensitive industry sectors, such as mining and The importance of reputational risk was reinforced with the appointment defence, through the ESE policy framework.
of a Head of Reputational Risk, together with improvements to governance frameworks to manage this risk in business franchises.
A A Reputational Risk Policy has also been developed to help employees, senior RBS-wide Reputational Risk Forum RRF and fora in all business businesses and functions effectively identify, assess and manage issues franchises were established.
These bodies consider customers, that potentially represent a reputational risk.
In addition, other policies, transactions, products or issues that present material reputational risks to such as those related to conduct, address key sources of reputational the organisation, and have the power to decline business or to set risk.
These policies are implemented in accordance with the Policy conditions.
Framework through business and functional policy standard owners.
The A high-level Reputational Risk Policy was also developed to help effectiveness of these policies within each franchise is reported on employees, businesses and functions effectively identify, assess and through the Control Environment Certification process Refer to the manage issues that present reputational risks.
Operational risk section on page 187.
Reputational aspects also form a core part of the RBS conduct risk framework, with a series of enhanced The most material threats to RBSs reputation continued to originate from policies developed in line with conduct risk appetite.
historical and more recent conduct deficiencies.
As a result, RBS has been the subject of investigations and reviews by a number of its Risk monitoring and measurement regulators, some of which have resulted in fines and public censure.
Emerging reputational issues are identified by the business and relevant Refer to the Litigation, investigations and reviews section on page 430. teams, including RBS Sustainability and Enterprise Wide Risk, which assess new and emerging business, sector and country risks.
The Risk Governance Management Monthly Report, provided to the Executive Committee and Managing reputational risk is taken very seriously, with Board-level BRC, may also discuss reputational risks facing RBS, and the annual oversight reinforced by a Reputational Risk Policy, and by governance Sustainability Report covers progress on sustainability principles.
The Board and the Executive Committee have the ultimate responsibility ESE ratings of customers and transactions are captured and analysed for managing RBSs reputation although all staff have some centrally by the Reputational and ESE Risk Team.
The Board has set RBSs Purpose, Vision and Values, which outline the objective, which is to be trusted, respected and valued Risk mitigation by our customers, shareholders and communities.
Refer to the Risk Reputational risk is mitigated through governance frameworks and governance section on page 176. training of staff to ensure early identification, assessment and escalation of customers, transactions or products with potential reputational risk, if The Sustainable Banking Committee is responsible for overseeing and appropriate.
This includes creating appropriate fora, for example challenging how management is addressing sustainable banking and reputational risk committees or individual reputational risk approvers.
reputation issues including risk appetite for environmental, social and ethical ESE issues.
Also important is the setting of clear reputational risk appetite criteria, ensuring higher risk cases are escalated for senior level approval.
The Boards oversight of reputational issues is supported by the senior Effective communication channels and incident response planning also RBS-wide RRF which opines on cases that represent a material ensure that cases that result in reputational impact are appropriately reputational risk to the whole organisation.
The RRF, which has managed, for example by declining or exiting business or by ensuring delegated authority from the Executive Risk Forum, also acts as a central incident management plans are implemented to manage the impact of forum to review thematic issues and risk appetite positions.
franchises also have in place reputational risk approval fora to deliberate on customers, transactions, products or issues that may present a reputational risk for their businesses.
An example is the Global Reputational Risk Committee in CIB.
unaudited 194 Business review Capital and risk management Capital management 196 Definition 196 Capital strategy 196 Overview and key developments 196 Regulatory capital requirements 197 Capital and stress testing management framework 197 Governance 198 Assessing, monitoring and maintaining adequate capital 199 Risk identification and material integrated risk assessment MIRA 199 Stress testing 202 Internal capital adequacy assessment process ICAAP 203 Capital planning 204 Future regulatory developments 205 Other developments 206 Measurement 206 - Capital and leverage ratios 207 - Capital resources 209 - Leverage exposure 210 - Risk-weighted assets 212 EAD and RWA density 214 Accounting to regulatory consolidation bridge 215 Balance sheet to EAD bridge 195 Business review Capital and risk management Capital management RBSs current Pillar 2A requirement is 3.5% of RWAs at 31 December Definition 2014.
From 1 January 2015, 56% of the total Pillar 2A or 2.0% of RWAs RBS aims to maintain an appropriate level of capital to meet its business is required to be met from CET1 capital.
Pillar 2A is a point in time needs and regulatory requirements, and operates within an agreed risk assessment of the amount of capital that is required to be held to meet appetite.
The appropriate level of capital is determined based on the dual the overall financial adequacy rules.
The Prudential Regulation Authority aims of: i meeting minimum regulatory capital requirements: and ii PRA assessment may change over time, including as a result of at least ensuring RBS maintains sufficient capital to uphold customer, investor an annual assessment and supervisory review of RBSs internal capital and rating agency confidence in the organisation, thereby supporting its adequacy assessment process.
business franchises and funding capacity.
RBSs capital risk appetite framework, which informs its capital targets, Capital strategy includes consideration of the maximum distributable amount MDA RBS has set out its strategy to be truly customer-centric, built upon high requirements.
These requirements are expected to be phased in from levels of customer service and trust, delivering attractive and consistent 2016, with full implementation by 2019 but this is subject to ongoing returns and underpinned by unquestioned safety and soundness.
It review to accommodate regulatory and other changes.
includes key risk metrics aligned to the strategic objectives for example a target Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio.
Based on current capital requirements, including holding current estimates of Pillar 2A constant for illustrative purposes, RBS estimates RBS has devised a risk appetite framework aligned to the above.
This that its fully phased CET1 MDA requirement would be 10.5% in 2019, framework establishes appetite targets on quantitative and qualitative assuming RBSs current risk profile.
It should be noted that this estimate measures which are set by the Board and aligned with its key strategic does not reflect the anticipated impact of RBSs planned restructuring risk objectives including maintaining sufficient capital resources to meet and balance sheet risk reduction programmes, changes in the regulatory regulatory requirements and cover the potential for unexpected losses framework or other factors that could impact target CET1 ratios.
The estimated MDA requirement comprises: Overview and key developments 4.5% Pillar 1 minimum CET1 ratio: RBSs CET1 ratio was 11.2% at 31 December 2014, an 2.0% Pillar 2A CET1 ratio: improvement of 260 basis points compared with 8.6% as at 31 2.5% Capital conservation buffer: and December 2013.
The leverage ratio under 2014 Basel III framework improved from Based on the assumptions above, assuming a 13% steady state CET1 3.4% to 4.2% at 31 December 2014. capital ratio is achieved, RBS currently estimates that it would have headroom of 2.5% to fully phased MDA trigger in 2019.
This headroom Key milestones achieved in 2014 include: will be subject to ongoing review to accommodate regulatory and other partial IPO of CFG: changes.
run down of RCR and CIB assets: and disposal of 9 billion of higher risk legacy available-for-sale Regulatory capital requirements securities, thereby reducing stressed capital and RWAs.
The European Union has implemented the Basel III proposals through the Capital Requirement Regulation CRR and the Capital Requirements Going forward, RBS is focused on delivering a capital plan in-line Directive CRD, collectively known as CRD IV.
CRD IV was implemented with its strategic objectives which includes the divestment of CFG by on 1 January 2014.
The European Banking Authoritys technical the end of 2016 and further run down of RCR and CIB assets.
standards which will provide clarification of the CRD IV, are either in progress to be finalised through adoption by the European Commission From 2015 RBS will target a c. 13% CET1 ratio during the period of and implemented within the UK, or delegated regulation now adopted.
CIB restructuring and expects to achieve this by the end of 2016.
CRD IV imposes the following minimum requirements to be met by 2019: RBS plans to issue around 2 billion of CRR-compliant Additional Tier 1 AT1 capital instruments in 2015.
Pillar 1 requirement of: CET1 of 4.5% of RWAs: Tier 1 of 6%: and total capital of 8%: Capital buffers: capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of RWAs: countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5%: Global-Systemically Important Bank G-SIB surcharge of 1.5%: and Minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3%.
unaudited 196 Business review Capital and risk management In December 2013 the PRA issued its policy statement PS7 13 outlining Capital and stress testing management framework changes to its Rulebook as a result of CRD IV, and finalising This section covers a number of tools and processes which taken requirements for the minimum level of CET1 capital as follows: together contributed to an integrated view of capital management and is best presented by the diagram below.
Firms must meet a 4% Pillar 1 CET1 requirement in 2014, rising to 4.5% from 1 January 2015.
Similarly, the Tier 1 capital ratio will be 5.5%, rising to 6% from 1 January 2015 onwards.
All Pillar 2A risks, including pension risk, must be met with at least 56% CET1 capital from 1 January 2015 onwards.
This matches the proportion of CET1 capital required for Pillar 1.
The remaining 44% allocation of Pillar 2A is restricted to 19% Tier 1 and 25% Tier 2.
All regulatory deductions from capital must align CET1 with the endpoint definition from January 2014, effectively making fully loaded Basel III the regulatory definition, a stricter approach than the CRR transitional arrangements.
On 31 October 2014 the Financial Policy Committee FPC published its recommendation on the overall leverage ratio framework for the UK banking system as follows: Minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3%.
To be met 75% by CET1 and a maximum 25% AT1: A supplementary leverage buffer applying to G-SIBS equal to 35% MIRA: material integrated risk assessment of the corresponding risk-weighted systemic risk buffer rates to be ICAAP: internal capital adequacy assessment process met with CET1: and Governance A countercyclical leverage ratio buffer equal to 35% of the riskThe Board is the main decision making forum at RBS.
It sets the strategic weighted countercyclical capital buffer rate to be met from CET1.
direction and ensures RBS manages risk effectively by approving and The countercyclical buffer is currently set at 0%.
monitoring RBSs strategic risk appetite, considering RBS-wide stress scenarios and agreed mitigants, as well as identifying longer-term strategic threats to the business operations.
The Board approves the ICAAP.
The Board Risk Committee BRC is responsible for providing oversight and advice to the Board in relation to current and potential future risk exposures of RBS and future risk strategy, including determination of risk appetite and tolerance.
The BRC will review the performance of RBS relative to risk appetite, provide oversight of the effectiveness of key RBS-wide policies and provide risk input to remuneration decisions.
The BRC has responsibility for promoting a risk awareness within RBS.
Authority is delegated to the BRC by the Board and the BRC reports and makes recommendations to the Board as required.
unaudited 197 Business review Capital and risk management Capital management continued Each business in RBS is subject to performance metrics respecting The Executive Committee is responsible for managing strategic, financial, regulatory capital requirements to ensure that relevant Individual Capital capital, risk and operational issues affecting RBS.
It reviews and debates Guidance or minimum CET1 levels are met.
RBS has a control relevant items before they are submitted to the Board and relevant board framework in place to guard against accidental breaches in capital ratios.
It also considers recommendations from the Executive Risk Forum ERF in relation to risk management matters, including Monitoring recommendations on risk appetite, risk policies and risk management RBS continually reviews the potential impact on capital adequacy of strategies.
ERF oversees stress testing approach, processes and results.
emerging regulatory developments and actively assesses headroom against a range of stress scenarios.
Recovery plans are dynamically RBS Asset and Liability Committee ALCo is a sub-committee of ERF.
maintained and contingency or remediation options are calibrated to RBS ALCo is responsible for identifying, managing and controlling determine scope to address potential capital shortfalls.
All authorised balance sheet risks in executing its business strategy.
RBS Treasury is institutions in RBS are required to ensure adequate capital is maintained responsible for managing the RBS balance sheet in accordance with at all times: they must also monitor and report regulatory capital and RBS ALCo policy and direction.
RBS ALCo is the body with responsibility RWAs on a regular basis.
The level and appropriateness of internal in determining that financial balance sheet risk limits and for ensuring the capital buffers at CET1, Tier 1, Tier 2 and total capital levels, is reviewed asset and liability management functions manage their balance sheets by RBS ALCo and reset as considered appropriate, at least annually.
within the limits set by RBS ALCo.
Capital allocation Stress Testing Committee STC takes its delegated authority from ERF Capital resources are allocated to businesses based on key performance and makes recommendations to the ERF on asset quality reviews and parameters agreed by the Board in the annual strategic planning process.
stress testing, including the key vulnerabilities and scenario themes Principal among these is a profitability metric, which assesses the identified, the results from the generated scenarios and expanded metrics effective use of the capital allocated to the business.
Projected and actual to be used in both internal and regulatory enterprise-wide stress tests.
return on equity is assessed against strategic objectives.
The allocations STC ensures these are relevant and reflect RBS business model also reflect strategic priorities, the intensity of regulatory capital use and vulnerabilities, and the results of both internal stress, reverse stress and the usage of other key resources such as balance sheet liquidity and regulatory enterprise-wide stress tests including mitigants.
Assessing, monitoring and maintaining adequate capital Economic profit is also planned and measured for each business It is RBSs policy to build and sustain a strong capital base and to use it annually.
It is calculated by deducting the cost of equity utilised in the efficiently throughout its activities to support strategic objectives and particular business from its operating profit after tax and measures the ultimately optimise shareholder returns while maintaining a prudent value added over and above the cost of equity.
relationship between its capital base and the underlying risks of the business.
In carrying out this policy, RBS follows the regulatory RBS aims to deliver sustainable returns across the portfolio of requirements of the twin peaks regulatory structure in the UK under the businesses with projected business returns stressed to test key supervision of the FCA and the PRA, also having regard to other vulnerabilities.
regulators, rating agencies, its peer group and market expectations.
The franchises use return on capital metrics when making pricing decisions on products and transactions, to ensure customer activity is appropriately aligned with RBS and segmental targets.
unaudited 198 Business review Capital and risk management Risk identification and material integrated risk assessment MIRA Stress test process and techniques MIRAs are annual top down processes to: Stress testing is part of the financial and capital planning process and results are presented to senior management and BRC Board at least help identify material risks: semi-annually.
It is now an integral part of enterprise risk management and used to assess the impact of business decisions on the bank's understand the nature and magnitude of these risks clearly: and capital position.
The stress testing process has four key stages: appraise associated risk management frameworks robustly.
Define stress scenario: RBS-specific vulnerabilities are identified and linked to MIRAs provide a process to assess the size and nature of exposure development of relevant stresses: to all risk types in the risk taxonomy, which is an exhaustive, Scenario is defined, severity calibrated and full parameterisation structured list of the types of risk that RBS can and could face.
completed: and Governance is put in place for stress theme approval and MIRAs consider whether capital should be set aside against each scenario validation.
risk type and, if so, under which pillar, how much and of what type.
If Stress test execution and governance: capital is not appropriate, MIRAs outline how risk types are Impacts of stress scenario is translated via relevant risk drivers otherwise managed.
In so doing, MIRAs form a key input to the such as RWAs, impairments: ICAAP.
Profit and loss impacts of stress scenario are also assessed: and To focus risk management on areas of greatest benefit, MIRAs Review of stress output by the business as well as risk treasury consider in depth risks whose potential impact is material, that is and finance teams.
exceeding appropriately chosen financial or non-financial thresholds.
Consolidation and capital planning: The key framework elements used to manage material risks Segmental results are consolidated to provide the total view of owners, governing committees, limit or tolerance frameworks stress impact: including risk appetites, control policies and key reports are Stressed profit and loss and RWA assessment contribute specified clearly and assessed for appropriateness and towards arriving at a stressed capital plan: effectiveness.
Additional capital impacts under stress are considered such as pension deficit, foreign exchange reserves: and Stress testing Final stressed CET1 ratios are produced for each year of the Stress testing is used to evaluate the capital position under severe but scenario.
Stress testing also refers to the broader Management actions and governance: framework under which these tests are developed, evaluated and used Internal subject matter experts determine a menu of possible within the banks decision-making process in the context of the wider management actions under stress conditions such as capital economic environment.
raising, fide-risking and sale of assets, cost reduction: Review by senior risk management and executives: and RBS stress testing framework is designed to embed stress testing as a ERF and Board review and approval.
key risk management technique into mainstream risk reporting, capital planning and business processes at business, legal entity and RBS-wide Risk-type specific stress testing is also conducted.
the market risk management framework, a comprehensive programme of stress tests covers a variety of historical and hypothetical scenarios.
Portfolio-specific stress tests assess the reaction of key portfolios to systemic shocks and identify potential vulnerabilities, including risks that have not yet matured or are not yet visible.
They assess the potential for outsized losses and the impact of rebalancing portfolios.
unaudited 199 Business review Capital and risk management Capital management continued RBS achieved a CET1 ratio of 5.2% after the impact of regulatory agreed RBS conducts reverse stress testing within the ICCAP for the specific management actions, just above the minimum 4.5% required.
RBS purpose of identifying and assessing scenarios most likely to render strengthened its capital throughout 2014 and had a CET1 ratio of 10.8% RBSs business model unviable.
For example, RBSs most recent reverse at 30 September 2014 prior to the publication of the BOE concurrent stress test, which applied a pure macroeconomic stress only, indicated stress test results in December 2014. that an instantaneous global shock of a similar scale as the 2008 financial crisis which lasted for a full year could potentially render RBSs business As the RBS risk profile improves as a result of deleveraging and rundown model unviable.
However, the successful execution of RBSs of higher risk and capital intensive assets, RBS is well placed to transformation plan, including the proposed restructuring of CIB, balance withstand extreme stress scenarios.
sheet reduction and the implementation of the ring-fencing requirements, would mitigate this risk.
In March 2014, the Federal Reserve Board FRB completed its review of CFGs 2014 capital plan.
The Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Regulatory stress test exercises Review CCAR results follow the Federal Reserves publication of DoddRBS also takes part in a number of external stress tests as part of wider Frank Act Stress Test results.
In that test, across every category, CFGs stress testing frameworks implemented by regulatory authorities to test projected capital ratios ranked in the top quartile of the 30 largest bank industry-wide vulnerabilities under crystallising global systemic risks.
In holding companies under the hypothetical supervisory severely adverse 2014, RBS participated in two regulatory scenarios designed by the stress scenario.
However the FRB objected on qualitative grounds to the European Banking Authority EBA and the Bank of England BOE.
capital plan submitted as part of the CCAR capital plan.
FRB cited significant deficiencies in capital planning processes, including The EBA adverse scenario assumed an increase in global investor risk inadequate governance, weak internal controls and deficiencies in aversion that triggers financial market turmoil and has subsequent practices for estimating revenues and losses under a stress scenario and adverse impacts on economic activity worldwide.
The scenario envisaged for ensuring the appropriateness of loss estimates across business lines sharply rising long-term interest rates and yields in developed economies in a specific stress scenario.
Although the FRB acknowledged that bank alongside a souring of market sentiment globally, resulting in financial holding companies such as CFG that are new to the CCAR process are markets distress and recessions in a range of countries, including the UK.
subject to different expectations, CFGs weaknesses were considered The stress test was conducted on a static balance sheet basis and thus serious enough to warrant FRBs objection.
As a result, CFG are not did not permit key strategic initiatives, such as, the wind down of higher permitted to increase its capital distributions above 2013 levels until a risk and capital intensive assets as part of RCR.
new capital plan is approved by the Federal Reserve Board.
From an 8.6% CET1 capital under full CRR rules as at 31 December In 2014, Ulster Bank Ireland Limited UBIL and RBS N. V. participated in 2013, RBS achieved a CET1 ratio of 5.7% after the adverse scenario, a comprehensive assessment performed by the European Central Bank marginally above the minimum 5.5% required, an indication of the level of ECB.
The comprehensive assessment considered both a stress test stressed risk in RBSs exposures at the time.
RBS strengthened its and an asset quality review AQR.
The assessment was conducted to capital throughout 2014 and had a CET1 ratio of 10.8% at 30 September increase transparency in bank exposures, and to increase confidence in 2014, prior to disclosure of the EBA stress test results in October 2014. the European banking sector by identifying whether institutions held sufficient capital under a stress scenario.
The AQR and stress test were Unfortunately, in November 2014 an error was identified in the calculation the first assessments carried out by the ECB under the single supervisory of the modelled CET1 ratio in the EBA stress test results which led to mechanism.
RBSs published CET1 stress test ratios being overstated.
Independent assurance was sought and the error was corrected.
The BRC will The outcome of the AQR did not require an adjustment to the balance continue to closely monitor the actions being taken to avoid a repeat of sheets of either UBIL or RBS N. V. In the stress test, both UBIL and RBS this error.
N. V. maintained capital ratios above the minimum 5.5% under the adverse scenario.
The second regulatory stress test, designed by the BoE in cooperation with the EBA, tested the combined impact of the global macroeconomic and market elements of the EBA adverse scenario, and UK-specific stress assumptions under the guidance of the FPC.
In particular, the UK variant scenario examined the resilience of UK banks to a housing market shock and a snap-back in interest rates, triggered by sharp sterling depreciation and inflationary pressures.
Under the scenario, the UK suffers a severe recession with economic uncertainty damaging confidence and causing both business investment contraction and a significant rise in unemployment.
unaudited 200 Business review Capital and risk management Stress testing use In addition to informing the ICAAP, stress testing within RBS has matured into business as usual process embedded across our risk management framework.
It has become a key risk management tool and is used to support strategic financial planning, risk appetite, risk identification and risk mitigation as illustrated below.
Stress test usage across RBS 1 Strategic financial & capital planning Assess impact of plausible downside scenarios on financial position.
Assessment of strategic plans against market concerns and headwinds.
2 Risk appetite Better understanding of underlying risks to inform the setting of risk appetite e. g. sector reviews, earnings volatility, reverse stress test.
Assess impact of current business strategies on risk appetite.
Identify drivers of risk appetite triggers.
3 Risk identification Manage business through improved understanding of the underlying risk.
Examples: Tail risk assessment: identification of risky portfolios that breach series of pre-determined triggers.
Business vulnerabilities analysis: assessment of business model weaknesses through cross-functional discussions.
Identify high-risk portfolios to be investigated further.
4 Risk mitigation Inform mitigating actions within RBS and segmental strategic plans.
Determine a schedule of potential management actions to be executed in the event of stress.
unaudited 201 Business review Capital and risk management Capital management continued Internal capital adequacy assessment process ICAAP The ICAAP assesses RBSs material risks and determines how much capital is required to cover these risks.
The ICAAP consists of two types of internal capital assessment: Point-in-time capital assessment as at the financial year end: - Pillar 1 - CET1 4.5% of credit, market and operational RWAs at the financial year end.
- Pillar 2A - additional capital requirements for risks not captured or not adequately captured in Pillar 1.
A MIRA is performed to ensure that all material risks are identified, appropriately managed and adequately capitalised where appropriate.
Forward-looking stress capital assessment: - Pillar 2B - Capital planning buffer is set to ensure RBS maintains adequate capital resources in stress to allow it to continue to meet the minimum capital requirements.
Current capital planning buffer will be replaced by the PRA buffer from 1 January 2016.
The final ICAAP is approved by the Board prior to submission to the PRA.
Component parts of the ICAAP are set out in the diagram below.
unaudited 202 Business review Capital and risk management Capital planning Impacts for capital planning RBS aims to maintain an appropriate level of capital to meet its business Strategic considerations in the medium-term capital plan will be driven by needs and regulatory requirements, and operates within an agreed risk key impacts such as a more restrictive approach to the capital base, appetite.
higher capital ratio targets and enhanced risk coverage: RBS uses the budgeting cycle to forecast the future levels of capital Absolute capital levels will need to be higher earlier: required at CET1, Tier 1, Tier 2 and total capital levels including bail-in or gone-concern capital at both RBS level and for each of the major Higher relative risk-weighted assets will exacerbate the absolute operating entities.
Those forecasts are then measured against minimum capital required and the stress impact: and regulatory requirements as well as specific regulatory guidance such as the Individual Capital Guidance.
Operating entities such as UBIL, RBS Inclusion of PRA and or firm stress buffers making stress a key N. V. and CFG also go through a similar planning process to ensure that driver of bank target CET1 ratios.
they are compliant with local regulatory rules.
These plans are reviewed and challenged to ensure that they are consistent with RBS risk appetite, Recovery and resolution planning.
In line with regulatory requirements, RBS prepares regular recovery plans, which include a framework of indicators identifying the points at Stress testing is an integral part of capital planning.
Stress testing results which appropriate actions may be taken in the event of unexpected are produced through the same capital planning models used for the weaknesses in its capital or liquidity resulting from either idiosyncratic or budget.
Models will be adjusted to reflect the specific parameters of a systemic stress, as well as a menu of options for addressing such particular stress test.
The capital plan outputs are subject to executive and Board review and RBSs 2014 Recovery Plan was prepared in line with PRA policy approval.
The capital plan and performance against capital metrics are Statement PS8 13, requiring firms to prepare, maintain and review reviewed each month at ALCo.
These rules were supplemented by a supervisory statement SS18 13, 2, which sets out in more detail what the PRA Total loss absorbing capital TLAC is a new requirement announced by expects firms to consider in their recovery planning.
Previous Recovery the Financial Stability Board FSB at its meeting in October 2014.
TLAC Plans were submitted to the Financial Services Authority the PRAs is intended to ensure that a bank group maintains sufficient consolidated predecessor body in December 2011 and June 2012, and to the PRA in resources not only to reduce the likelihood of insolvency but also to allow June 2013. for orderly resolution and recapitalisation of insolvent operating subsidiaries in the event of a banking groups insolvency.
Recovery Plans are required to be updated annually: it is anticipated that RBSs 2015 Recovery Plan will be prepared in line with revised rules taking into account the European Union Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive of 2014 and the European Banking Authoritys regulatory technical standards on recovery planning.
These rules would require a bank to notify the PRA, without delay, if it decides to take action under the recovery plan or refrains from taking action.
unaudited 203 Business review Capital and risk management Capital management continued Economic capital Pillar 2 Economic capital is an internal measure of the risks to which RBS is The PRA launched a consultation paper in January 2015 on the Pillar 2 exposed and is used as a supplement to other risk and capital capital requirements for UK banks.
Proposed changes are intended to management tools, such as stress testing and regulatory capital.
The support a more risk sensitive and consistent approach to setting Pillar 2A measure includes risk exposures for credit, market, business, P2A capital and to provide greater transparency of the PRA capital operational, pension, fixed asset and interest rate risk in the banking setting process by allowing firms to manage present and future regulatory book.
These models capture risks not fully addressed within the Pillar 1 capital demands.
Proposed changes are as follows: regulatory framework e. g. concentration, pension, interest rate, business and diversification.
The variable element of P2A to be expressed as a percentage of RWAs plus fixed add-ons instead of the current method where P2A The characteristics of the models are consistent across risks, business is a formula comprising both a variable and a fixed element: lines and throughout the economic cycle, but are also flexible to allow outcomes to be employed for a number of purposes e. g. severity The PRA buffer will replace the current Capital Planning Buffer level confidence interval, time horizon and correlations.
Use of the buffer will not be a breach in capital requirements been developed internally but are subject to rigorous governance and will not result in capital distribution restrictions however, failure including external benchmarking, independent validation and extensive to meet Pillar 2B P2B buffer may result in enhanced supervisory internal review and challenge.
Models are regularly reviewed and action: continue to be updated for new data sources and improvements in risk modelling methodology.
The P2B buffer will be calculated as a percentage of RWAs rather than absolute terms and is to be met with CET1: The ability to change severity levels supports management of earnings volatility and capital risk.
Economic models are used in the ICAAP Firms already subject to a CPB will be required to meet P2B with assessing risk profiles within the risk appetite framework, functional risk CET1 in full immediately: management e. g. credit exposures at both RBS and business levels, assessing business line profitability on a risk adjusted basis and the Firms considered to have weak risk management and governance management and allocation of capital.
will be required to hold additional PRA buffer applied on a scalar ranging from 10-40% of a firms CET1 Pillar 1 plus P2A capital Future regulatory developments requirements: and Resolution and recovery directive In addition to the capital requirements under CRD IV, the resolution and Firms will have the discretion to publicly disclose their aggregate recovery directive RRD introduces requirements for banks to maintain P2A charge from 1 January 2016.
Component parts of P2A and the at all times a sufficient aggregate amount of own funds and eligible PRA buffer will remain confidential.
liabilities that is, liabilities that may be bailed in using the bail-in tool, known as the minimum requirements for eligible liabilities MREL.
The The PRA estimates that the total impact of proposals will increase overall aim is that the minimum amount should be proportionate and adapted for P2A requirements by 0.23% of RWAs.
Implementation will be from 1 each category of bank on the basis of their risk or the composition of their January 2016 in line with the CRD IV capital conservation and systemic sources of funding.
buffers and the EBAs Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process guidelines.
The UK government has transposed the RRD's provisions into law with a requirement that the Bank of England adopt further secondary legislation Domestically Systemically Important Banks to implement MREL requirements by 2016 which will take into account Regulatory proposals relating to domestically systemically important the regulatory technical standards to be developed by the EBA specifying banks DSIBs continue to be progressed and could impact the level of the assessment criteria that resolution authorities should use to CET1 that is required to be held by RBS and specific legal entities determine the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities including NatWest and the Royal Bank.
The EBA published in December for individual firms.
2014 a quantitative methodology as to how European regulators could quantify which firms would qualify as DSIBs.
In addition the FPC intends The EBA noted that the technical standards would be compatible with the to consult with firms in the UK on the UK framework during 2015. proposed term sheet published by the FSB on TLAC requirements for GSIBs, but there remains a degree of uncertainty as to the extent to which Systemic risk buffer MREL and TLAC requirements may differ.
In January 2015, HM Treasury issued an explanatory memorandum on the systemic risk buffer for banks, building societies and investment As the implementation of the capital requirements under RRD is the forms.
The regulation implements Articles 133 and 134 of Directive subject to the adoption of secondary legislation and implementation in the 2013 36 EU and addresses the outstanding capital buffer element of the UK and overall capital requirements will be subject to the exercise of ring-fencing policy recommended by the Independent Commission on certain discretion by the PRA, RBS is currently unable to predict the Banking ICB and agreed by the UK Government.
impact such rules will have on the overall capital requirements or how they will affect compliance with applicable capital and loss absorbency requirements.
unaudited 204 Business review Capital and risk management The purpose of the systemic risk buffer is to prevent and mitigate long TLAC will be distributed by resolution entities to material term non-cyclical systemic or macro prudential risks not covered by subsidiaries which are themselves not resolution entities.
Sufficient existing regulation where there is potential for serious negative internal TLAC will be prepositioned on the balance sheet of material consequences for the financial system and real economy.
subsidiaries: and The systemic risk buffer will apply to large banks with core ring fenced Under the policy proposal TLAC is now defined as an additional entity deposits of more than 25 billion and large building societies with rather than a parallel capital requirement to the Basel III framework deposits of more than 25 billion.
Implementation will occur from 1 and a breach of the minimum TLAC could trigger the same January 2019 and capital buffers will range from 0-3% of a firms RWAs.
restrictions set out in the Basel III framework for MDA.
However, this would technically be the consequence of a direct breach of the CRD The FPC will set out the framework for determining which institutions fall IV buffer rather than the TLAC due to the no double counting into scope and the size of the buffer to be held.
be published in 2015 and methodology by 31 May 2016.
The PRA will be responsible for applying the framework and will have ultimate discretion The FSB is currently working on draft principles with the rule expected to over which firms must hold the buffer and its specific size.
Total loss absorbing capital TLAC and maximum distributable amounts Other developments MDA The following developments will also impact RBSs capital: The FSB has issued policy proposals for public consultation on TLAC.
The new proposal is intended to replace the gone-concern loss absorbing The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision: capital concept previously expected to be the template within the G-SIBs Has proposed a recalibration of the credit risk standardised resolution strategies.
approach with implementation in 2017 with initial view of the new rules due in 2015.
The proposed minimum TLAC requirements are as follows: Are reviewing the calibration of the operational risk calculation, Between 16% and 20% of RWAs and at least double the Basel III with revised rules due in 2015 and applicable from 2017.
Tier 1 leverage ratio requirements - 16% represents roughly twice Has instigated a fundamental review of the trading book which the minimum capital requirement 8% under Basel III: will impact how the risk of trading book activity is measured.
Initial consultation papers on this are due in 2015.
A certain minimum currently undefined amount of the TLAC requirement will need to be met with non-equity instruments - AT1, The PRA and FPC are looking at placing a floor on the risk-weight Tier 2 or even Tier 3 or bail-in able debt: applied to mortgages in calculating the risk-weight.
The level of the floor is currently being debated and current expectations are Minimum TLAC requirements will sit below the combined buffer application in 2015. requirements which may lead to consequences on MDA restrictions: The Financial Services Banking Reform Act passed into UK law in The loss absorption should be legally enforceable and should not December 2013 implementing recommendations of the ICB: and give rise to systemic risk or disruption to the provision of critical functions.
Therefore, to prevent a G-SIB resolution to spread The US Federal Reserve Boards final rule issued in February 2014, contagion into the banking system, internationally active banks will establishing enhanced prudential standards for foreign banking be prevented from holding TLAC issued by other G-SIBs: organisations.
unaudited 205 Business review Capital and risk management Capital management continued Measurement Capital and leverage ratios Capital, RWAs and risk asset ratios, on the basis of transitional rules and end-point CRR, calculated in accordance with PRA definitions, are set out below.
3 Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio with effect from 1 January 2014.
4 Based on end-point CRR Tier 1 capital and revised 2014 Basel III leverage ratio framework.
General: In accordance with the PRAs Policy Statement PS7 2013 issued in December 2013 on the implementation of CRD IV, all regulatory adjustments and deduction to CET1 have been applied in full endpoint CRR with the exception of unrealised gains on AFS securities which will be included from 2015 PRA transitional basis.
CRD IV and Basel III impose a minimum CET1 ratio of 4.5%.
Further, CET1 requirements will be imposed through buffers in the CRD.
There are three buffers that will affect RBS: the capital conservation buffer set at 2.5% of RWAs: the counter-cyclical capital buffer up to 2.5% of RWAs, which will be calculated as the weighted average of the countercyclical capital buffer rates applied in the countries where RBS has relevant credit exposures: and the highest of Global-Systemically Important Institution G-SII, Other-Systemically Important Institution or systemic risk buffers set by the supervisory authorities.
RBS has been provisionally allocated a G-SII buffer of 1.5%.
The regulatory target capital requirements will be phased in through CRR, and are expected to apply in full from 1 January 2019.
Until then, using national discretion the PRA can apply a top-up.
As set out in the PRAs Supervisory Statement SS3 13, RBS and other major UK banks and building societies are required to maintain a CET1 ratio of 7%, after taking into account certain adjustments set by the PRA.
From 1 January 2015, RBS must meet at least 56% of its Pillar 2A capital requirement with CET1 capital and the balance with Additional Tier 1 and or Tier 2 capital.
The Pillar 2A capital requirement is the additional capital that RBS must hold, in addition to meeting its Pillar 1 requirements in order to comply with the PRAs overall financial adequacy rule.
Measures in relation to end-point CRR basis, including RWAs, are based on the current interpretation, expectations, and understanding, of the CRR requirements, as well as further regulatory clarity and implementation guidance from the UK and EU authorities end-point CRR basis.
The actual end-point CRR impact may differ when the final technical standards are interpreted and adopted.
Capital base: 1 Own funds are based on shareholders equity.
2 Includes the nominal value of B shares 0.5 billion on the assumption that RBS will be privatised in the future and that they will count as permanent equity in some form by the end of 2017.
3 The adjustment arising from the application of the prudent valuation requirements to all assets measured at fair value, has been included in full.
The prudential valuation adjustment relating to assets under advanced internal ratings approach has been included in impairment provisions in the determination of the deduction from expected losses.
4 Where the deductions from AT1 capital exceed AT1 capital, the excess is deducted from CET1 capital.
The excess of AT1 deductions over AT1 capital in year one of transition is due to the application of the current rules to the transitional amounts.
5 Insignificant investments in equities of other financial entities net : long cash equity positions are considered to have matched maturity with synthetic short positions if the long position is held for hedging purposes and sufficient liquidity exists in the relevant market.
All the trades are managed and monitored together within the equities business.
6 Based on our current interpretations of the Commission Delegated Regulation issued in December 2013 on credit risk adjustments, RBSs standardised latent provision has been reclassified to specific provision and is not included in Tier 2 capital.
Risk-weighted assets RWAs : 1 Current securitisation positions are shown as risk-weighted at 1,250%.
2 RWA uplifts include the impact of credit valuation adjustments and asset valuation correlation on banks and central counterparties.
3 RWAs reflect implementation of the full internal model method suite, and include methodology changes that took effect immediately on CRR implementation.
4 Non-financial counterparties and sovereigns that meet the eligibility criteria under CRR are exempt from the credit valuation adjustments volatility charges.
5 The CRR final text includes a reduction in the risk-weight relating to small and medium-sized enterprises.
unaudited 206 Business review Capital and risk management Capital resources 2014 2013 2012 PRA Estimated PRA End-point transitional end-point transitional Basel 2.5 Basel 2.5 CRR basis basis CRR basis basis basis basis m m m m m m Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests Shareholders' equity 57,246 57,246 58,742 58,742 58,742 68,678 Preference shares - equity 4,313 4,313 4,313 4,313 4,313 4,313 Other equity instruments 784 784 979 979 979 979 52,149 52,149 53,450 53,450 53,450 63,386 Non-controlling interests 473 403 Regulatory adjustments and deductions Own credit 500 500 601 601 726 691 Defined benefit pension fund adjustment 238 238 172 172 362 913 Net unrealised available-for-sale AFS losses 308 346 Cash flow hedging reserve 1,029 1,029 84 84 84 1,666 Deferred tax assets 1,222 1,222 2,260 2,260 Prudential valuation adjustments 384 384 781 781 Goodwill and other intangible assets 7,781 7,781 12,368 12,368 12,368 13,545 Expected losses less impairments 1,491 1,491 1,731 1,731 19 1,904 50% of securitisation positions 748 1,107 Other regulatory adjustments 585 855 55 55 103 197 12,230 12,500 16,682 16,682 11,758 16,469 CET1 capital 39,919 39,649 36,768 36,768 42,165 47,320 Additional Tier 1 AT1 capital Preference shares - equity 4,313 4,313 Preference shares - debt 911 1,054 Innovative hybrid Tier 1 securities 4,207 4,125 Qualifying instruments and related share premium subject to phase out 5,820 5,831 Qualifying instruments issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties 1,648 1,749 AT1 capital 7,468 7,580 9,431 9,492 Tier 1 deductions 50% of material holdings 976 295 Tax on expected losses less impairments 6 618 970 323 Tier 1 capital 39,919 47,117 36,768 44,348 50,626 57,135 unaudited 207 Business review Capital and risk management Capital management continued 2014 2013 2012 PRA Estimated PRA End-point transitional end-point transitional Basel 2.5 Basel 2.5 CRR basis basis CRR basis basis basis basis m m m m m m Qualifying Tier 2 capital Undated subordinated debt 2,109 2,194 Dated subordinated debt - net of amortisation 12,436 13,420 Qualifying instruments and related share premium 5,542 6,136 3,582 4,431 Qualifying instruments issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties 3,175 7,490 5,151 9,374 Unrealised gains on AFS equity shares 114 63 Collectively assessed impairment provisions 395 399 8,717 13,626 8,733 13,805 15,054 16,076 Tier 2 deductions 50% of securitisation positions 748 1,107 Expected losses less impairments 25 2,522 50% of material holdings 976 295 1,749 3,924 Tier 2 capital 8,717 13,626 8,733 13,805 13,305 12,152 Supervisory deductions Unconsolidated investments 36 2,243 Other deductions 236 244 272 2,487 Total regulatory capital 48,636 60,743 45,501 58,153 63,659 66,800 The table below analyses the movement in end-point CRR CET1 and Tier 2 capital for the year.
CET1 Tier 2 Total m m m At 1 January 2014 36,768 8,733 45,501 Loss for the year including reclassification of CFG, net of movements in fair value of own credit 3,571 3,571 Share capital and reserve movements in respect of employee share schemes 205 205 Ordinary shares issued 300 300 Foreign exchange reserve 208 208 AFS reserves 607 607 Decrease in goodwill and intangibles deduction 4,032 4,032 Deferred tax assets DTA 1,038 1,038 Prudential valuation adjustments 397 397 Excess of expected loss over impairment provisions 240 240 Dated subordinated debt issues 2,159 2,159 Net dated subordinated debt grandfathered instruments 1,537 1,537 Foreign exchange movements 638 638 Other movements 111 111 At 31 December 2014 39,919 8,717 48,636 Key points Tier 2 issuances of 2.2 billion comprised 1 billion 3.625% On the reclassification of CFG to disposal groups at 31 December subordinated notes and $2.25 billion 5.125% subordinated notes, 2014, the carrying value exceeded its fair value less costs to sell by both maturing in 2024.
The consequential write down has been ascribed to goodwill relating to CFG.
The lower regulatory capital deduction for DTA is due to the reduction in the net DTA balance reflecting the write down of deferred tax assets during the year.
unaudited 208 Business review Capital and risk management Leverage exposure The leverage exposure is based on the revised 2014 Basel III leverage ratio framework.
The leverage ratio as originally included in the CRR is aligned with the internationally agreed ratio from January 2015.
End-point CRR basis 2 2014 2013 3 Leverage 1 bn bn Derivatives 354.0 288.0 Loans and advances 419.6 418.4 Reverse repos 64.7 76.4 Other assets 212.5 245.1 Total assets 1,050.8 1,027.9 Derivatives - netting 330.9 227.3 - potential future exposures 98.8 128.0 Securities financing transactions gross up 25.0 59.8 Weighted undrawn commitments 96.4 100.2 Regulatory deductions and other adjustments 0.6 6.6 Leverage exposure 939.5 1,082.0 Notes: 1 Based on end-point CRR Tier 1 capital and revised 2014 Basel III leverage ratio framework.
2 Capital Requirements Regulation CRR as implemented by the Prudential Regulation Authority in the UK, with effect from 1 January 2014.
Additional analysis of derivative notionals and undrawn commitments, two of the major components included in the balance sheet contributing to the leverage exposure, is set out below.
Derivative notionals Derivative potential future exposures PFE are calculated based on the notional value of the contracts and is dependent on the type of contract.
For contracts other than credit derivatives the PFE is based on the type and maturity of the contract after the effect of netting arrangements.
The PFE on credit derivatives is based on add-on factors determined by the asset quality of the referenced instrument.
Qualifying credit derivatives attract a PFE add-on of 5% and have reference securities issued by public sector entities, multilateral development banks or other investment grade issuers.
Non-qualifying credit derivatives attract a PFE add-on of 10%.
The table below analyses the derivative notionals by maturity for contracts other than credit derivatives and credit derivatives by qualifying and not.
Risk-weighted assets The table below analyses the movement in credit risk RWAs by key drivers during the year.
Credit risk Non-counterparty Counterparty Total bn bn bn At 1 January 2014 Basel 2.5 basis 291.1 22.3 313.4 CRR impact 1 26.8 16.8 43.6 At 1 January 2014 CRR basis 317.9 39.1 357.0 Foreign exchange movement 1.5 1.5 Business movements 21.6 13.9 35.5 Risk parameter changes 11.7 11.7 Methodology changes 17.9 5.2 12.7 Model updates 2.7 2.7 Other changes 0.8 0.8 At 31 December 2014 CRR basis 264.7 30.4 295.1 Modelled 1 163.2 26.6 189.8 Non-modelled 101.5 3.8 105.3 264.7 30.4 295.1 N ote: 1 Refer to RWA notes on page 206 for further information.
The table below analyses movements in market and operational risk RWAs during the year.
Market risk CIB Other Total Operational risk Total bn bn bn bn bn At 1 January 2014 Basel 2.5 and CRR bases 22.4 7.9 30.3 41.8 72.1 Business and market movements 15.4 2.8 18.2 5.0 23.2 Methodology changes 11.9 11.9 11.9 At 31 December 2014 CRR basis 18.9 5.1 24.0 36.8 60.8 Modelled 1 14.9 3.3 18.2 18.2 Non-modelled 4.0 1.8 5.8 36.8 42.6 18.9 5.1 24.0 36.8 60.8 Note: 1 Modelled refers to advanced internal ratings basis for non-counterparty credit risk, internal model method for counterparty credit risk, and value-at-risk and related models for market risk.
These principally relate to CIB 83 billion and Commercial Banking 48 billion.
unaudited 210 Business review Capital and risk management The table below analyses RWA movements by segment during the year.
UK Personal & Corporate & Citizens Business Ulster Commercial Private Institutional Central Financial Banking Bank Banking Banking Banking items Group RCR Non-Core Total Total RWAs bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn At 31 December 2013 Basel 2.5 basis 51.2 30.7 65.8 12.0 120.4 20.1 56.1 29.2 385.5 Impact of dissolution of Non-Core and creation of RCR 1.9 2.7 10.0 0.1 2.0 41.7 29.2 CRR impact 1.5 0.6 1.6 36.7 3.1 2.5 5.0 43.6 At 1 January 2014 CRR basis 49.7 28.2 61.5 12.0 147.1 23.3 60.6 46.7 429.1 Foreign exchange movement 1.1 1.0 3.6 1.5 Business movements 0.3 0.3 36.8 6.1 4.2 20.0 58.7 Risk parameter changes 1 5.0 3.6 0.2 3.3 11.7 Methodology changes 2 1.7 0.2 2.0 0.3 0.8 Model updates 3 1.6 0.6 0.2 0.4 1.1 2.7 Other changes 0.3 0.5 0.8 At 31 December 2014 CRR basis 42.8 23.8 64.0 11.5 107.1 16.3 68.4 22.0 355.9 Notes: 1 Risk parameter changes relate to changes in credit quality metrics of customers and counterparties such as probability of default PD and loss given default LGD.
They comprise: - UK PBB and Ulster Bank: primarily reflects recalibration of PD and LGD models reflecting improvements to the UK economy.
- RCR: decrease in defaulted assets 1.0 billion and internal rating upgrades for certain counterparties 0.8 billion.
2 Methodology changes included: - Commercial Banking: revisions to both currency netting and maturity dates for securitisation liquidity facilities.
- CIB: 2.0 billion primarily represents inclusion of hedges in the credit valuation adjustments calculation.
In addition there were offsetting movements of 11.4 billion reflecting transition of trading book securitisations from credit risk to market risk: and 7.5 billion reflecting reclassification of new CRR related charges, primarily asset value correlation and certain exchange traded derivatives from non-counterparty credit risk to counterparty credit risk.
3 The following models were updated during the year: - UK PBB: revised retail LGD model.
- Commercial Banking and RCR: new large corporate PD model.
- CIB: reduction due to the impact of exposure at default model 2.6 billion was offset by the new large corporate PD model.
Key points In relation to RWA density: RBS RWAs increased from 385 billion on a Basel 2.5 basis to 429 The increase in RWA density of exposures reflected the impact of billion on a CRR basis principally reflecting: credit valuation adjustments and asset valuation correlation and 1,250% risk weighting of securitisation positions: previously those on structured entities related to revised RWA treatments, both capital deductions: relating to the implementations of CRD IV.
Impact of credit valuation adjustment and asset valuation correlation relating to banks and central counterparty: Non-modelled standardised credit risk RWAs principally comprised Implementation of CRR model suite: and CFG 63 billion, and Private Banking 10 billion : repo Reduction in risk weighting for small and medium sized transactions undertaken by RBSSI, the broker-dealer and certain enterprises SME.
UK PBB RWAs reduced due to improvements in credit quality, Total shipping portfolio exposure at default EAD was 10.9 billion recovery in the UK economy and lower balances.
and RWAs of 8.4 billion of which 2.3 billion and 1.7 billion were in RCR.
In Commercial Banking, credit risk RWAs increased by 5 billion due to growth in loans 2 billion and methodology changes 2 Oil and gas RWAs were 8.5 billion at a density of 49%.
Mining and billion and model changes 1 billion, offset by a 2 billion metals RWAs were 3.3 billion with a density of 74%.
decrease in operational risk RWAs.
CIB managed down RWAs by 40 billion, through both balance sheet and risk reductions.
The reduction included 15 billion of market risk RWAs due to the wind down of the US asset-backed products business, 6 billion credit risk RWAs in GTS and Portfolio and 10 billion in Rates reflecting counterparty reviews as well as exits, novations and mitigation.
Operational risk RWAs decreased by 3 billion.
The RCR disposal strategy and run-off resulted in a 25 billion reduction in RWAs, 9 billion each in real estate finance and corporate, and a further 5 billion and 2 billion in Markets and Ulster Bank respectively.
unaudited 211 Business review Capital and risk management Capital management continued EAD and RWA density The tables below analyse exposure at default EAD after credit risk mitigation CRM, RWAs and related RWA density RWAs as a percentage of EAD by sector cluster.
RWAs at 31 December 2014 are under current rules and 31 December 2013 are on a Basel 2.5 basis.
Refer to page 215 for a bridge between balance sheet and EAD.
2 Non-bank financial institutions, such as US agencies, insurance companies, pension funds, hedge and leverage funds, broker-dealers and non-bank subsidiaries of banks.
3 Securitisation structured purpose entities primarily relate to securitisation related vehicles.
unaudited 213 Business review Capital and risk management Capital management continued Accounting to regulatory consolidation bridge The table below provides a reconciliation between accounting and regulatory consolidation.
Insurance undertakings and non-financial undertakings are excluded from the regulatory consolidation, although they are included in the consolidation for financial reporting.
2 RBS must proportionally consolidate its associates for regulatory purposes where they are classified as credit institutions or financial institutions.
These will generally have been equity accounted for financial reporting purposes.
unaudited 214 Business review Capital and risk management Balance sheet to EAD bridge The table below provides a bridge between the balance sheet and credit EAD by balance sheet caption.
Refer to previous page for additional details.
2 The exposures in regulatory trading book businesses are subject to market risk and are therefore excluded from EAD.
Refer to the Market risk section on page 298.
3 Impairment loss provisions on loans and advances and securities, and credit valuation adjustment on derivatives.
4 Includes: - Reverse repos: reflects regulatory approach for securities financing transactions including netting of collateral and cash legs.
- Loans and advances: cash collateral pledged with counterparties in relation to net derivative liability positions.
- Derivatives: impact of master netting arrangements.
5 Capital deductions are excluded as EAD only captures exposures for credit RWAs.
6 Amounts reclassified to balance sheet lines for EAD.
7 Primarily includes: - Loans and advances: offset related to cash management pooling arrangements not allowed under IFRS and standardised approach credit risk mitigation.
- Derivatives: EAD valuation adjustments offset by difference between netting arrangements and netting within regulatory model sets.
- Property, plant and equipment: includes residual value of operating leases.
unaudited 215 Business review Capital and risk management Liquidity and funding risk 217 Definition 217 Overview and key developments 217 Liquidity risk 217 - Policy, framework and governance 217 - Regulatory oversight and liquidity framework 218 - Measurement, monitoring and contingency planning 218 - Stress testing 219 - Liquidity portfolio 221 - Net stable funding ratio NSFR 222 Funding risk 222 - Funding markets 222 - Analysis 222 - Sources and uses of funding 222 - Key funding metrics 223 - Funding sources 224 - Notes issued 224 - Loan:deposit ratios and funding surplus gap 225 - Repos 225 - Firm financing 225 - Maturity analysis 225 - Behavioural maturity 226 - Contractual maturity 228 - Encumbrance 228 - Collateral on and off-balance sheet 229 - Balance sheet encumbrance 216 Business review Capital and risk management Liquidity and funding risk Liquidity risk Definition Policy, framework and governance Liquidity and funding risk is the risk that RBS is unable to meet its Internal liquidity policies are designed to ensure that RBS: financial obligations, including financing wholesale maturities or customer Has a clearly stated liquidity risk tolerance: appetite for liquidity risk deposit withdrawals, as and when they fall due.
is set by the Board as a percentage of the Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA stressed outflows, and is managed on The risk arises through the maturity transformation role that banks a daily basis by legal entity, country, region and business.
It is dependent on RBS specific factors such as maturity profile, risk limits the Board takes into account the nature of RBS various composition of sources and uses of funding, the quality and size of the activities, the overall risk appetite, market best practice and liquidity portfolio as well as broader market factors, such as wholesale regulatory compliance.
market conditions alongside depositor and investor behaviour.
Has in place strategies, polices and practices to ensure that RBS Overview and key developments maintains sufficient liquidity: the risk management framework The liquidity position strengthened with the liquidity portfolio of determines the sources of liquidity risk and the steps that can be 150.7 billion at 31 December 2014 covering short-term wholesale taken when these risks exceed certain actively monitored limits.
funding STWF more than five times.
STWF decreased by 4.6 These actions include when and how to use the liquid asset billion to 27.8 billion mainly due to the buy-back and maturity of portfolio, and what other adjustments to the balance sheet should be medium-term notes in CIB.
undertaken to manage these risks within the banks risk appetite.
The liquidity portfolio increased by 4.6 billion in the year, primarily RBS maintains an adequate liquid asset portfolio appropriate to the reflecting the proceeds from the Citizens IPO and the sale of 9 business activities of RBS and its risk profile.
billion securities from the RBS N. V. bond portfolio.
It includes 57 Incorporates liquidity costs, benefits and risks in product pricing and billion of secondary liquidity being assets eligible for discounting at performance management: RBS uses internal funds transfer pricing central banks.
The costs associated with maintaining the secondary to ensure that these costs are reflected in the measurement of liquidity portfolio are minimal being largely administrative and business performance, and to correctly incentivise businesses to operational costs.
source the most appropriate mix of funding.
The liquidity coverage ratio LCR was 112% at 31 December 2014, The Asset and Liability Management Committee ALCo sets and reviews based on RBSs interpretation of the EU guidelines.
The the liquidity risk management framework and limits within the risk appetite improvement in LCR from 102% at year end 2013 reflects set by the Board.
ALCo, and by delegation the Liquidity Committee, reductions in wholesale funding due to CIB balance sheet and risk oversees the implementation of liquidity management across RBS.
RBS reduction and an increase in retail deposits.
With effect from 1 Treasury conducts the review, challenge and reporting of RBSs liquidity October 2015, LCR will replace the PRAs current regime, with an performance, while the Liquidity Committees management of liquidity risk initial minimum requirement of 80% rising to 100% by 2018. is overseen by ALCo, the Executive Risk Forum, Executive Committee and the Board.
The net stable funding ratio NSFR based on RBSs interpretation of the Basel framework was stable at 121% at 31 December 2014.
Regulatory oversight and liquidity framework Liquidity risk appetite is measured by reference to the liquidity RBS operates across multiple jurisdictions and is subject to a number of portfolio as a proportion of net stressed outflows and ratio was 186% regulatory regimes.
2013 - 145% under the worst case stress scenario.
The improvement in 2014 reflected lower stress outflows due to balance The principal regulator, the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA, has a sheet reductions in CIB.
comprehensive set of liquidity regulations, the cornerstone of which is Prudential sourcebook for Banks, Building Societies and Investment During 2014 RBS successfully issued 2.2 billion of Tier 2 Firms BIPRU 12 until 30 September 2015.
To comply with the PRA subordinated debt, compared with 1.8 billion in 2013.
RBSG plc regulatory process, RBS undertakes the following: had senior unsecured debt outstanding of 6.9 billion, excluding commercial paper and certificates of deposit, at 31 December 2014.
An annual exercise to complete the ILAA: and Based on its assessment of the Financial Stability Boards An annual Focused Liquidity Review FLR process with the PRA - a proposals, RBS may issue between 3 - 5 billion per annum during comprehensive review of the RBS ILAA, liquidity policies and risk 2015 - 2019 to meet total loss absorbing capital requirements.
This results in the settings of the Individual Liquidity Guidance, which influences the size and overall The customer loan:deposit ratio remained broadly stable at 95% composition of RBS liquid asset portfolio.
compared with 94% at the end of 2013 with an increase in the funding surplus in PBB of 4.4 billion UK PPB - 1.4 billion: Ulster Bank - 3.0 billion being offset by a decrease in the funding surplus in CPB of 6.6 billion Commercial Banking - 5.7 billion: Private Banking - 0.9 billion.
unaudited 217 Business review Capital and risk management Liquidity risk continued RBS actively monitors a range of market-wide and firm-specific early In addition, RBSs US operations meet liquidity requirements set out by warning indicators of emerging liquidity stresses.
Indicators include such the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, areas as customer deposit outflows, market funding costs and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Financial Industry movements in the banks credit default swap premiums and debt Regulatory Authority.
In Europe, Ulster Bank Ireland Limited and RBS spreads.
Early warning indicators and regulatory metrics are reported N. V. are both subject to oversight by the European Central Bank with daily to senior management, including the Chief Financial Officer and effect from 1 November 2014.
The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS has introduced a RBS maintains a CFP, which forms the basis of analysis and new liquidity regime for banks, Basel III, which includes two liquidity management actions to be undertaken in a liquidity stress.
The CFP is metrics, the LCR and NSFR, to be used by banks to monitor their liquidity linked to stress test results and forms the foundation for liquidity risk risk.
The CFP sets out the circumstances under which the plan would be invoked: this includes material worsening of early warning indicators.
It In January 2013, the BCBS published its final guidance for calculating the also prescribes a communications plan, roles and responsibilities, as well LCR.
This will be implemented in law across the EU by the European as potential management actions to take in response to various levels of Commission EC, who published a final Delegated Act for the LCR in the liquidity stress.
On invocation of the CFP, the Contingency Liquidity Team EU Journal in January 2015.
The Delegated Act will introduce the LCR as would be convened to identify the likely impact of the stress event and a regulatory minimum standard from 1 October 2015 on a phased basis, determine the appropriate management response.
such that banks are required to meet a 100% LCR ratio by 1 January 2018.
In November 2014, the PRA confirmed in a consultation paper that Stress testing the current BIPRU 12 regime will be revoked on 1 October 2015 in favour Under the liquidity risk management framework RBS maintains the ILAA, of the LCR, and that UK banks will be required to maintain a minimum a component of which is an assessment of net stressed liquidity outflows.
The LCR will be a Pillar 1 metric, meaning These liquidity stress tests apply scenario-based behavioural and that the PRA will apply firm-specific Pillar 2 liquidity add-ons above and contractual assumptions to cash inflows and outflows under the worst of beyond the minimum LCR requirement.
The PRA has invited feedback three severe stress scenarios, as prescribed by the PRA.
These are a from UK banks on the consultation paper, but has not released any market-wide stress, an idiosyncratic stress and a combination of both.
guidance on the detailed calculation of LCR.
Pending PRA reporting guidelines, RBS monitors the LCR using its own internal interpretations of A stress event can occur when either firm-specific or market-wide factors existing guidance.
or a combination of both lead to depositors and investors withdrawing or not renewing funding on maturity.
This could be caused by many factors BCBS published its final recommendations for implementation of the including fears over the viability of the firm.
Additionally, liquidity stress NSFR in October 2014, proposing an implementation date of 1 January can be brought on by customers choosing to draw down on loan 2018, by which time banks are expected to meet an NSFR ratio of 100%.
The EC has stated that it shall, if appropriate, submit a legislative proposal to the European Parliament by the end of 2016 for implementing Simulated liquidity stress testing is performed at least monthly for each NSFR in the EU.
In the meantime, RBS uses the definitions and business as well as the major operating subsidiaries in order to evaluate proposals from the BCBS paper, and internal interpretations, to calculate the strength RBSs liquidity risk management.
The stressed outflows are NSFR.
measured over certain time periods which extend from two weeks to three months.
RBS is expected to be able to withstand the stressed Several regulatory regimes outside the EU where RBS operates, outflows through its own resources primarily through the use of the including the Joint Banking Supervisors of the US, have also published liquidity portfolio without having to resort to extraordinary central bank or consultation papers with guidance for their local implementation of the governmental assistance.
RBS anticipates further guidance for LCR to be published across other jurisdictions during the course of 2015.
Stress tests are designed to examine the impact of a variety of firmspecific and market-wide scenarios on the future adequacy of the liquidity Measurement, monitoring and contingency planning reserves.
Stress test scenarios are designed to take into account RBSs In implementing the liquidity risk management framework, a suite of tools experiences during the financial crisis, recent market conditions and are used to monitor, limit and stress test the risks within the balance events.
These scenarios can be run at any time in response to the sheet.
The limits control the amount and composition of funding sources, emergence of firm-specific or market-wide risks that could have a asset and liability mismatches and funding concentrations, in addition to material impact on RBSs liquidity position.
In the past these have the level of liquidity risk.
included credit rating changes and political and economic conditions changing in particular countries.
Liquidity risks are reviewed at a significant legal entity level daily, and at a business level monthly, with performance reported to Asset and Liability RBSs liquidity risk appetite is measured by reference to the liquidity Management Committees at least monthly.
Any breach of internal metric portfolio as a percentage of net stressed ILAA outflows.
limits will set in motion a series of actions and escalations that could lead to activation of the Contingency Funding Plan CFP.
unaudited 218 Business review Capital and risk management Liquidity portfolio Key liquidity risk stress testing assumptions Liquidity risks are mitigated by a centrally managed liquidity portfolio.
The size of the portfolio is determined under the liquidity risk management Net wholesale funding - Outflows at contractual maturity of framework with reference to the RBSs risk appetite.
wholesale funding, with no rollover new issuance, prime brokerage, 100% loss of excess client derivative margin and 100% loss of The majority of the portfolio is centrally managed by RBS Treasury, ringexcess client cash.
fenced from the CIB trading book, and is the ultimate responsibility of the RBS Treasurer.
This portfolio is held in the PRA regulated UK Defined Secured financing and increased haircuts - Loss of secured funding Liquidity Group UK DLG comprising RBSs five UK banks: The Royal capacity at contractual maturity date and incremental haircut Bank of Scotland plc, National Westminster Bank Plc, Ulster Bank widening, depending upon collateral type.
Limited, Coutts & Co and Adam & Company.
Retail and commercial bank deposits - Substantial outflows as RBS Certain of RBS's significant operating subsidiaries - RBS N. V. Citizens could be seen as a greater credit risk than competitors.
Financial Group Inc, and Ulster Bank Ireland Limited - hold locally managed portfolios of liquid assets that comply with local regulations that Intra-day cash flows - Liquid collateral held against intra-day differ from PRA rules.
These portfolios are the responsibility of the local requirement at clearing and payment systems is regarded as Treasurer who reports to the RBS Treasurer.
encumbered with no liquidity value assumed.
Liquid collateral is held against withdrawal of unsecured intra-day lines provided by third The UK DLG liquidity portfolio accounted for 88% of the total liquidity parties.
portfolio, this portion is available to meet liquidity needs as they arise across RBS.
The remaining liquidity reserves are held locally within nonIntra-group commitments and support - Risk of cash within UK bank subsidiaries, the majority of this portion 12% is restricted by subsidiaries becoming unavailable to the wider bank and contingent regulatory requirements and therefore assumed to only be available for calls for funding on RBS Treasury from subsidiaries and affiliates.
Funding concentrations - Additional outflows recognised against Separately from the liquidity portfolio, RBS holds high quality assets to concentration of providers of wholesale secured financing.
meet payment systems collateral requirements, these are managed by RBS Treasury but are not freely available to other areas of RBS.
Off-balance sheet activities - Collateral outflows due to market movements, and all collateral owed by RBS to counterparties but not RBS categorises its liquidity portfolio, including its locally managed yet called: anticipated increase in firms derivative initial margin liquidity portfolios, into primary and secondary liquid assets.
requirement in stress scenarios: collateral outflows contingent upon a multi-notch credit rating downgrade of RBS entities: drawdown on Primary liquid assets that are eligible liquid assets, such as cash committed facilities provided to corporates, based on counterparty and balances at central banks, treasury bills and other high quality type, creditworthiness and facility type: and drawdown on retail government and US agency bonds.
Secondary liquid assets that are eligible as collateral for local central Franchise viability - Liquidity stress testing includes additional bank liquidity facilities but do not meet the core local regulatory liquidity in order to meet outflows that are non-contractual in nature, definition.
These assets include own-issued securitisations or whole but are necessary in order to support valuable franchise businesses.
loans that are retained on balance sheet and pre-positioned with a central bank so that they may be converted into additional sources Management action - Unencumbered marketable assets that are of liquidity at very short notice.
held outside of the central liquidity portfolio and are of verifiable liquidity value to the firm, are assumed to be monetised subject to The composition of the liquidity portfolio is subject to policies and limits haircut valuation adjustment.
set by the Board, ALCo and the Liquidity Committee, it is influenced by quality of counterparty, maturity mix and currency mix.
The liquidity value of the portfolio is determined with reference to current market prices and the haircuts necessary to generate cash from the asset.
RBS efficiently manages the liquidity portfolio to optimise the risk and rewards whilst not compromising its liquidity position.
This optimisation can lead to changes in the composition of the portfolio.
219 Business review Capital and risk management Liquidity risk continued Liquidity metrics The table below sets out the key liquidity and related metrics monitored by RBS.
2014 2013 2012 Liquidity portfolio 151bn 146bn 147bn Stressed outflow coverage 1 186% 145% 128% Liquidity coverage ratio 2 112% 102% 100% Net stable funding ratio 3 121% 120% 115% Notes: 1 RBS's liquidity risk appetite is measured by reference to the liquidity portfolio as a percentage of stressed contractual and behavioural outflows under the worst of three severe stress scenarios of a market-wide stress, an idiosyncratic stress and a combination of both in RBS's ILAA.
This assessment is performed in accordance with PRA guidance.
2 In January 2013, the BCBS issued its revised final guidance for calculating liquidity coverage ratio with a proposed implementation date of 1 January 2015.
Within the EU, the LCR is currently expected to come into effect from the later date of 1 October 2015 on a phased basis, subject to the finalisation of the EU Delegated Act.
Pending guidance from the PRA, RBS monitors the LCR based on the EU Delegated Act and its internal interpretations of the expected final rules.
Consequently RBSs ratio may change over time and may not be comparable with those of other financial institutions.
3 BCBS issued its final recommendations for the implementation of the net stable funding ratio in October 2014, proposing an implementation date of 1 January 2018.
Pending further guidelines from the EU and the PRA, RBS uses the definitions and proposals from the BCBS paper and internal interpretations, to calculate the NSFR.
Liquidity portfolio The table below shows RBSs liquidity portfolio by product, liquidity value and by carrying value.
Liquidity value is lower than carrying value as it is stated after discounts applied by the Bank of England and other central banks to instruments, within the secondary liquidity portfolio, eligible for discounting.
GBP USD EUR Other Total Total liquidity portfolio m m m m m 2014 93,861 40,556 16,238 150,655 2013 100,849 33,365 10,364 1,488 146,066 2012 84,570 35,106 26,662 831 147,169 Notes: 1 The PRA regulated UK Defined Liquidity Group UK DLG comprises RBSs five licensed deposit taking UK banks: The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, National Westminster Bank Plc, Ulster Bank Limited, Coutts & Co and Adam & Company.
In addition, certain of RBSs significant operating subsidiaries - RBS N. V. Citizens Financial Group Inc. and Ulster Bank Ireland Limited - hold liquidity portfolios of liquid assets that comply with local regulations that may differ from PRA rules.
2 Comprises assets eligible for discounting at the Bank of England and other central banks.
unaudited 220 Business review Capital and risk management Net stable funding ratio NSFR The table below shows the composition of RBSs NSFR, based on RBSs interpretation of the rules published by BCBS in October 2014.
RBSs NSFR may change over time in line with regulatory developments and related interpretations.
2 Deferred tax and other liabilities.
3 Prepayments, accrued income, deferred tax, settlement balances and other assets.
As the NSFR calculation has been refined during 2014, some of the weightings on available stable funding and required stable funding have been changed and prior periods restated on the previously reported basis: 2013 -122%: 2012 - 117%.
unaudited 221 Business review Capital and risk management Funding risk At 31 December 2014, RBSs participation in central bank financing Funding markets operations amounted to 0.8 billion under European Central Banks RBSs primary funding source is its customer deposit base, primarily built Targeted Long Term Refinancing Operations.
RBS remains committed to through its retail and commercial franchises in the UK, Ireland and the supporting the objectives of the Funding for Lending scheme.
These deposits form a stable base which fully funds RBSs customer lending activities.
Analysis Sources and uses of funding Complementary to its deposit funding, RBS maintains access to various The composition of RBSs balance sheet is a function of the broad array wholesale markets for funding, on both a public and private basis, across of product offerings and diverse markets served by its core businesses.
a range of currencies, geographies and maturities.
These include longThe structural composition of the balance sheet is augmented as needed term secured and unsecured debt, short-term money markets and through active management of both asset and liability portfolios.
RBS has set policies for the prudent use of objective of these activities is to optimise the liquidity profile, while wholesale funding, as part of its wider liquidity policies.
ensuring adequate coverage of all cash requirements under extreme stress conditions.
RBS accesses the wholesale funding markets directly or through its main operating subsidiaries via established funding programmes.
The use of As set out below, RBSs asset and liability types broadly match.
different entities to access the market from time to time allows RBS to Customer deposits provide more funding than customer loans utilise: further diversify its funding mix and in certain limited circumstances repurchase agreements are largely covered by reverse repurchase demonstrate to regulators that specific operating subsidiaries enjoy agreements: interbank lending and funding largely nets off and this gap market access in their own right.
has narrowed over the past 5 years: and derivative assets are largely netted against derivative liabilities.
RBS may access various funding facilities offered by central banks from time to time.
The use of such facilities can be both part of a wider The table below shows the sources and uses of funding.
strategic objective to support initiatives to help stimulate economic growth or as part of the broader liquidity management and funding strategy.
Overall usage and repayment of available central bank facilities will fit within the overall liquidity risk appetite and concentration limits.
Liabilities Assets 2014 2013 2014 2013 bn bn bn bn Customer deposits 1 400 407 372 373 Customer loans and advances 1 Bank deposits short-term only 1 13 14 13 18 Loan and advances to banks 1 Trading liabilities 2 71 67 89 93 Trading assets 2 Other liabilities and equity 3 95 100 64 90 Other assets 3 Repurchase agreements 65 85 65 76 Reverse repurchase agreements Term wholesale funding 1 57 69 94 90 Primary liquidity portfolio Funded balance sheet 701 742 697 740 Funded balance sheet Derivatives 350 286 354 288 Derivatives 1,051 1,028 1,051 1,028 Notes: 1 Excludes held for trading.
2 Financial instruments classified as held-for-trading HFT excluding security financing transactions and derivatives.
3 Includes non-HFT financial instruments and non financial assets liabilities.
Key funding metrics The table below summarises the key funding metrics.
Short-term wholesale funding 1 Total wholesale funding Net inter-bank funding 2 Excluding Including Excluding Including Net derivative derivative derivative derivative inter-bank collateral collateral collateral collateral Deposits Loans 3 funding bn bn bn bn bn bn bn 2014 27.8 53.3 90.5 116.0 15.4 13.3 2.1 2013 32.4 51.5 108.1 127.2 16.2 17.3 1.1 2012 41.6 70.2 150.4 179.0 28.5 18.6 9.9 Notes: 1 Short-term wholesale funding is funding with a residual maturity of less than one year.
222 Business review Capital and risk management Funding sources The table below shows RBS's principal funding sources excluding repurchase agreements repos.
3 All conduits relate to CIB and have been extracted and shown separately as they were funded by commercial paper issuance until the end of the third quarter of 2012.
Customer deposits insured through deposit guarantee schemes totalled 160 billion 2013 - 161 billion the more material of them being Financial Services Compensation Scheme 112 billion: US Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 37 billion and Republic of Irelands Deposit Guarantee Scheme 7 billion.
224 Business review Capital and risk management Repos The table below analyses RBS's repos by counterparty type.
2014 2013 2012 m m m Financial institutions - central and other banks 26,525 28,650 44,332 - other financial institutions 28,703 52,945 86,968 Other corporate 9,354 3,539 1,072 64,582 85,134 132,372 RBS has access to the short-term money markets to supplement deposit and wholesale funding.
RBSs reverse repos mainly within CIB are generally used to fund repos or to cover short positions.
In addition, repos are used to fund a small proportion of CIBs trading assets and by RBS Treasury as part of the liquidity portfolio management.
The liquidity risk RBS is exposed to through security financing transactions is significantly lower than in relation to unsecured funding.
RBS limits any exposure by setting limits and monitoring any mismatch of quality, maturity or currency.
The exposure is also monitored in the context of the available liquid assets.
Firm financing The following table shows repos gross of IFRS offset arrangements refer to Balance sheet analysis - Financial assets summary on page 275 by asset quality and maturity.
Less than More than 1 month 1 month Total 2014 bn bn bn AAand above 67.2 11.6 78.8 Other 12.2 4.4 16.6 Total 79.4 16.0 95.4 2013 AAand above 69.5 21.6 91.1 Other 27.6 7.1 34.7 Total 97.1 28.7 125.8 Maturity analysis The contractual maturity of balance sheet assets and liabilities reflects the maturity transformation role banks perform, lending long-term but obtaining funding predominantly through short-term liabilities such as customer deposits.
In practice, the behavioural profiles of many liabilities exhibit greater stability and longer maturity than the contractual maturity.
This is particularly true of many types of retail and corporate deposits which, despite being repayable on demand or at short notice, have demonstrated very stable characteristics even in periods of acute stress.
In analysis to assess and manage asset and liability maturity gaps RBS determines the expected customer behaviour through qualitative and quantitative techniques, incorporating observed customer behaviours over long periods of time.
This analysis is subject to governance through Asset and Liability Management Committees down to a segment level.
Behavioural analysis Contractual maturity analysis and net behavioural funding surplus gap are set out below.
Behavioural maturity Contractual maturity Net surplus gap Net surplus gap Loans to customers Customer accounts Less than Greater than Less than Greater than Less than Greater than Less than Greater than 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total 2014 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn PBB 14 2 4 20 148 32 96 20 16 37 96 149 164 5 169 CPB 11 20 10 21 80 35 24 21 42 36 24 102 122 1 123 CIB 7 3 4 14 13 21 6 14 45 22 6 73 58 1 59 CFG 7 13 7 1 48 29 18 1 10 31 19 60 58 2 1 61 Other 3 4 1 8 1 6 3 8 2 6 3 11 3 3 22 2 4 20 290 123 147 20 115 132 148 395 405 9 1 415 unaudited 225 Business review Capital and risk management Funding risk continued Contractual maturity The following table shows the residual maturity of financial instruments, based on contractual date of maturity.
Held-for-trading HFT assets and liabilities have been excluded from the maturity analysis in view of their short-term nature and are shown in total in the table below.
Hedging derivatives are included within the relevant maturity bands.
The typical characteristics that support via own asset securitisations, covered bonds and securities encumbrance are an ability to pledge those assets to another repurchase agreements.
counterparty or entity through operation of law without necessarily requiring prior notification, homogeneity, predictable and measurable Not currently encumbered but can for instance be used to access cash flows, and a consistent and uniform underwriting and collection funding from market counterparties or central bank facilities as part process.
Retail assets including residential mortgages, credit card of RBSs contingency funding.
receivables and personal loans display many of these features.
In this category, RBS has in place an From time to time RBS encumbers assets to serve as collateral to enablement programme which seeks to identify assets which are support certain wholesale funding initiatives.
The three principal forms of capable of being encumbered and to identify the actions to facilitate encumbrance are own asset securitisations, covered bonds and such encumbrance whilst not impacting customer relationships or securities repurchase agreements.
RBSs balance sheet encumbrance ratios are set out below.
2014 2013 2012 Encumbrance ratios % % % Total 13 17 18 Excluding balances relating to derivative transactions 14 19 22 Excluding balances relating to derivative and securities financing transactions 11 11 13 Refer to the following page for further analysis.
Collateral on and off-balance sheet The table below summarises total on and off-balance sheet assets that are available to support funding and collateral requirements.
2014 2013 bn bn Total on-balance sheet assets 1,050.8 1,027.9 Less: - Reverse repos and derivatives 418.7 364.5 - Other assets not available to be pledged 99.7 40.5 Total on-balance sheet assets available 532.4 622.9 Add: - Fair value of securities received as collateral 100.9 124.2 Total assets available 633.3 747.1 Less: - On-balance sheet assets pledged 136.7 171.5 - Securities collateral received that have been rehypothicated 96.4 111.5 Assets available to be pledged 400.2 464.1 unaudited 228 Business review Capital and risk management Balance sheet encumbrance Encumbered assets relating to: Encumbered Unencumbered Readily realisable Debt securities in issue Other secured liabilities Total assets as a 3 Securitisations Covered Derivatives Secured encumbered % of related Liquidity Other 4 Cannot be 5 and conduits bonds Repos balances 1 assets 2 assets portfolio Other realisable encumbered Total 2014 bn bn bn bn bn bn % bn bn bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 2.4 2.4 3 66.7 6.4 75.5 Loans and advances to banks 4.6 0.3 11.5 0.5 16.9 68 1.7 2.1 4.1 24.8 Loans and advances to customers - UK residential mortgages 12.0 13.4 25.4 22 69.9 10.2 7.7 0.1 113.3 - Irish residential mortgages 8.6 8.6 62 0.9 4.3 0.1 13.9 - US residential mortgages 11.2 11.2 53 2.2 0.7 7.0 21.1 - UK credit cards 2.7 2.7 52 2.3 0.2 5.2 - UK personal loans 6.4 2.9 9.3 - other 6.0 21.9 1.3 29.2 13 8.0 17.2 110.3 67.3 232.0 Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing 64.7 64.7 Debt securities 5.9 25.4 5.7 37.0 36 24.0 39.7 1.2 101.9 Equity shares 0.3 2.6 2.9 47 2.2 0.2 0.9 6.2 Settlement balances 4.7 4.7 Derivatives 354.0 354.0 Intangible assets 8.4 8.4 Property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.4 6 4.2 2.1 6.7 Deferred tax 1.5 1.5 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 7.6 7.6 33.9 13.7 39.6 28.0 21.5 136.7 173.4 90.8 131.5 518.4 1,050.8 Securities retained 13.6 Total liquidity portfolio 187.0 Liabilities secured Intra-Group - secondary liquidity 13.1 13.1 Intra-Group - other 11.6 11.6 Third-party 6 5.6 7.1 39.6 64.6 10.5 127.4 30.3 7.1 39.6 64.6 10.5 152.1 For the notes to this table refer to the following page.
229 Business review Capital and risk management Funding risk continued Balance sheet encumbrance Encumbered assets relating to: Encumbered Unencumbered Debt securities in issue Other secured liabilities Total assets as a Readily realisable 3 Securitisations Covered Secured encumbered % of related Liquidity Other 4 Cannot be and conduits bonds Derivatives Repos balances assets 2 assets portfolio Other realisable encumbered 5 Total 2013 bn bn bn bn bn bn % bn bn bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 74.3 8.4 82.7 Loans and advances to banks 5.8 0.5 10.3 16.6 60 0.1 10.9 27.6 Loans and advances to customers - UK residential mortgages 14.6 16.2 30.8 28 60.8 18.6 110.2 - Irish residential mortgages 9.3 1.2 10.5 70 0.7 3.8 0.1 15.1 - US residential mortgages 3.5 3.5 18 9.5 6.7 19.7 - UK credit cards 3.4 3.4 52 3.1 6.5 - UK personal loans 3.4 3.4 38 5.5 8.9 - other 13.5 18.1 0.8 32.4 14 4.4 9.6 175.6 10.2 232.2 Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing 76.5 76.5 Debt securities 0.9 5.5 55.6 2.7 64.7 57 17.0 31.9 113.6 Equity shares 0.5 5.3 5.8 66 3.0 8.8 Settlement balances 5.5 5.5 Derivatives 288.0 288.0 Intangible assets 12.4 12.4 Property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.4 5 7.5 7.9 Deferred tax 3.5 3.5 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 8.6 8.6 Assets of disposal groups 0.2 0.2 50.9 16.7 34.4 60.9 8.6 171.5 166.8 101.5 183.1 405.0 1,027.9 Securities retained 17.4 Total liquidity portfolio 184.2 Liabilities secured Intra-Group - secondary liquidity 19.1 19.1 Intra-Group - other 18.4 18.4 Third-party 6 7.8 9.0 42.7 85.1 6.0 150.6 45.3 9.0 42.7 85.1 6.0 188.1 Notes: 1 Includes cash, coin and nostro balance held with the Bank of England as collateral against deposits and notes in circulation.
2 Encumbered assets are those that have been pledged to provide security for the liability shown above and are therefore not available to secure funding or to meet other collateral needs.
3 Unencumbered readily realisable assets are those assets on the balance sheet that can be readily used to meet funding or collateral requirements and comprise: a Liquidity portfolio: cash balances at central banks, high quality debt securities and loans that have been pre-positioned with central banks.
In addition, the liquidity portfolio includes securitisations of own assets which has reduced over the years and has been replaced by loans.
b Other readily realisable assets: including assets that have been enabled for use with central banks: and unencumbered debt securities.
4 Unencumbered other realisable assets are those assets on the balance sheet that are available for funding and collateral purposes but are not readily realisable in their current form.
These assets include loans that could be prepositioned with central banks but have not been subject to internal and external documentation review and diligence work.
5 Assets that cannot be encumbered include: a Derivatives, reverse repurchase agreements and trading related settlement balances.
b Non-financial assets such as intangibles, prepayments and deferred tax.
c Loans that cannot be pre-positioned with central banks based on criteria set by the central banks, including those relating to date of origination and level of documentation.
d Non-recourse invoice financing balances and certain shipping loans whose terms and structure prohibit their use as collateral.
6 In accordance with market practice, RBS employs securities recognised on the balance sheet, and securities received under reverse repo transactions as collateral for repos.
Secured derivative liabilities reflect net positions that are collateralised by balance sheet assets.
230 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk 232 Definition 232 Sources of credit risk 232 Key developments 233 Risk governance 233 Risk management 235 Risk measurement 237 Credit risk assets 237 - Balance sheet to CRA bridge 238 - Portfolio overview 239 - Sector and geographical regional analyses 240 - Asset quality 242 Wholesale credit risk management 242 - Risk appetite frameworks 242 - Risk assessment 243 - Risk mitigation 243 - Problem debt management 244 - Restructuring 244 - Forbearance 245 - Impairments 246 - Sector and geographical regional analyses 248 - AQ10 or non-performing 249 - Watchlist 249 - Forbearance 251 - Key credit portfolios 251 - Commercial real estate 255 - Oil and gas 257 - Counterparty credit risk 258 Personal credit risk management 258 - Risk appetite 258 - Risk assessment 258 - Risk mitigation 258 - Problem debt management 258 - Collections 258 - Forbearance 259 - Recoveries 259 - Impairments 260 - Key portfolios 260 - Overview 261 - UK PBB 265 - Ulster Bank 269 - Private Banking 271 - CFG 231 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk Ulster Bank - Following the creation of RCR, exposure to personal Definition customers now represents 68% of the total Ulster Bank exposure.
In the Credit risk is the risk of financial loss due to the failure of a customer or personal portfolio, Ulster Banks proactive offers of forbearance to help counterparty to meet its obligation to settle outstanding amounts.
customers through financial difficulties saw significant uptake in the Republic of Ireland with an increasing trend towards customers opting for Sources of credit risk longer-term solutions though mortgage recoveries stock remains high.
RBS is exposed to credit risk as a result of a wide range of business The quality of the Ulster Bank wholesale portfolio improved following the activities.
The most significant source of credit risk is lending.
RBS offers transfer of commercial real estate CRE assets to RCR, with an a number of lending products where it has an obligation to provide credit associated material decrease in impairments.
Refer to Segment facilities to a customer.
To mitigate the risk of loss, security may be performance - Ulster Bank on page 133. obtained in the form of physical collateral such as commercial real estate assets and residential property, or financial collateral such as cash or CFG - 2014 was a year of growth in both the personal and wholesale bonds.
Exposures arising from leasing activities are also included in CFG portfolios.
This was in line with business strategy to expand lending.
personal mortgage lending and auto finance organically as well as through acquisition.
The growth in wholesale exposures has been across The second most significant source of credit risk arises from activities in a broad range of industry sectors and customer types, reflecting the derivatives and securities financing transaction markets.
These result improving economic conditions in the US and specific focus on areas in counterparty credit risk, which is the risk of financial loss arising from such as asset finance, CRE and franchise finance.
Changes to strategy the failure of a counterparty to meet obligations that vary in value by or the risk appetite framework are subject to review in accordance with reference to a market factor.
To mitigate the risk of loss, collateral and CFGs and RBSs risk governance frameworks, so that risks are netting are used along with the additional legal rights provided under the understood and accepted.
Refer to Segment performance - Citizens terms of over-the-counter contracts.
RBS holds some debt securities generally for liquidity management Oil prices - In the second half of 2014, oil prices reduced significantly, purposes, and is exposed to credit risk as a result.
driven by the growth in supply from non-OPEC producers, the return of supply from Libya, Iran and Iraq and reduced demand expectations from RBS is also exposed to credit risk from off-balance sheet products such Europe and China.
Exposures to this sector continue to be closely as trade finance activities and guarantees as well as through committed managed through the sector concentration framework as well as ongoing but undrawn lending facilities.
customer and sub-sector reviews, with stress testing highlighting specific sub-sectors or customers particularly vulnerable to sustained low oil Through its global activities in foreign exchange, trade finance and prices.
Risk appetite to the overall oil and gas sector was reduced during payments, RBS is exposed to settlement risk.
the year, and action continues to mitigate exposure where possible.
For further information, refer to the Key credit portfolios section on page 255.
Key developments Credit quality and impairment - RBSs credit risk portfolio continued to Russia Ukraine - Ongoing tensions in Russia and Ukraine as well as the improve with an overall reduction in exposure, an improvement in credit imposition of sanctions, particularly in the oil and gas, defence, and quality and a material provision release in 2014.
These improvements financial sectors, have adversely affected the credit risk profile of were driven by supportive economic and market conditions in the UK and customers who have exposure to or dealings with Russian or Ukrainian Ireland, better liquidity and increased collateral values, and also reflected entities.
Accordingly, RBS reduced limits to customers affected by those improvements in credit risk measurement.
Through the credit risk developments, including tightening transactional controls to mitigate appetite frameworks the credit risk management function maintained a credit risk while ensuring sanctions compliance.
For further information continued focus on key portfolios and concentrations.
regarding exposure to Russia, refer to the Country risk section on page 323.
UK personal lending - The growth in UK PBB gross mortgage lending was within credit risk appetite and against a backdrop of house price Credit risk appetite - Credit risk appetite is continuously reviewed to increases over most of the year.
Due to the withdrawal of products with ensure that it remains relevant in light of changing economic conditions promotional rates in line with strategy, credit card exposure declined and strategic objectives.
Revisions were made to the sector credit risk during the year.
Refer to Key portfolios - UK PBB on page 261. appetite framework to reflect the altered composition of the credit portfolio following the creation of RCR.
The asset and product class framework was also revised to reflect changes in the portfolio together with market developments.
These included a revision of the credit risk appetite framework relating to sponsor owned corporate transactions in order to maintain portfolio credit quality following a weakening in terms and conditions within the leverage market.
232 Business review Capital and risk management Risk governance The third component of RBS credit assurance framework is the credit A strong credit risk management function is vital to support ongoing quality assurance activity carried out independently by Risk Assurance, profitability.
The potential for loss is mitigated through a robust credit risk which is part of the Risk Infrastructure function.
Risk Assurance culture and a focus on sustainable lending practices.
independently reviews lending activities to identify control breaches, assess portfolio quality and recommend process improvements.
These Operating model findings are escalated to senior management and plans to address The RBS credit risk management function, which is led by the Group shortcomings are recorded and tracked in RBSs operational risk system.
Chief Credit Officer GCCO, acts as the ultimate authority for the Risk Assurances credit quality assurance activities are overseen by the approval of credit and is responsible for ensuring that credit risk is within Audit Committee and the results of its reviews are regularly shared with the risk appetite set by the Board.
The function is also responsible for the regulators.
managing concentration risk and credit risk control frameworks as well as developing and ensuring compliance with credit risk policies.
In addition, In addition, controls and processes are regularly reviewed by RBSs the function conducts RBS-wide assessments of provision adequacy.
IA provides assurance to the Audit Committee and senior executive that the main business risks have been identified The Executive Risk Forum ERF has delegated approval authority to the and that effective controls are in place to manage these risks.
Credit Risk Committee CRC to act on credit risk matters.
These include, but are not limited to, credit risk appetite and limits within the overall risk Risk management appetite set by the Board and the ERF, credit risk strategy and RBS credit risk management is split into wholesale and personal, frameworks, credit risk policy and the oversight of the credit profile across reflecting the distinction between business types and the different risk RBS.
There are separate CRCs for the wholesale and personal portfolios.
management approaches, metrics and issues these involve.
Wholesale These are chaired by the GCCO or delegate.
focuses on activities with corporate and SME customers as well as banks and financial institutions these customers tend to be grouped by sector The ERF has delegated approval authority to the RBS Provisions and geography as well as by product asset class.
Personal covers Committee to manage provisions adequacy, both individual and personal customers across UK PBB, Ulster Bank and CFG as well as collective.
The RBS Provisions Committee, which is chaired by either the personal lending activities in Private Banking.
Chief Risk Officer or the GCCO, approves recommendations from lowerlevel provisions committees, which in turn have delegated approval Risk appetite thresholds for certain provision adequacy decisions.
Risk appetite across all risk types is set using specific quantitative targets under stress, including earnings volatility and capital adequacy.
The Key trends in the credit risk profile of RBSs performance against limits credit risk appetite framework has been designed to reflect the factors and emerging risks are set out in the RBS Risk Management Monthly that influence the ability to meet those targets.
These include product and Report provided to the Executive Committee, the Board Risk Committee asset class, industry sector, single name and country concentrations.
of these factors could generate higher earnings volatility under stress and, if not adequately controlled, they could undermine capital adequacy.
The Risk Infrastructure function provides a variety of services that enable Tools such as stress testing and economic capital are used to measure the credit risk management function to operate.
These include reporting credit risk volatility and develop links between risk appetite targets and of credit risk data, risk assurance, provision of credit risk models, systems the credit risk appetite framework.
The frameworks are supported by a strategy and change management.
suite of policies that set out the risk parameters within which franchises must operate.
Impairments, and associated key metrics such as loan loss Controls and assurance rates and provision coverage, are an integral part of standard credit risk The RBS credit control and assurance framework has three key portfolio reviews and are presented to CRC monthly.
These metrics are components: credit policy: policy compliance assessment: and also fully considered as part of the sector and product class appetite independent assurance.
These apply to both wholesale and personal reviews.
RBS also manages its exposures to counterparty credit risk credit risk at both portfolio and individual customer level.
closely, using portfolio limits and specific tools to control more volatile or capital-intensive business areas.
The first component is the RBS Credit Policy Standard, which is part of the RBS Policy Framework.
It sets out the rules that must be followed to For further information refer to the Wholesale credit risk management and ensure that credit risks are identified and effectively managed through the Personal credit risk management sub-sections.
The second component is a policy compliance assessment activity that credit risk undertakes to provide the GCCO with evidence of the effectiveness of credit risk management controls in place across RBS.
The results of these reviews support the self-certification that credit risk must complete every six months.
unaudited 233 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Risk monitoring and problem debt management  provisions A key aspect of credit risk management relates to problem debt Loans and securities above a defined threshold deemed to be individually management, from early problem identification through to litigation and significant are assessed on a case-by-case basis.
Assessments of future recovery of cash when there is no realistic potential for rehabilitation.
cash flows take into account the impact of any guarantees or collateral Various tools and techniques are deployed during this part of the credit held.
Estimating the amount and timing of future cash flows involves cycle including the offering of forbearance.
Practices differ across the judgement based on the facts available at the time and assumptions wholesale and personal portfolios.
For further information refer to the related to the future financial performance of the customer or Wholesale credit risk management and Personal credit risk management counterparty and any guarantors as well as future economic conditions sub-sections.
and the value of collateral.
Projected cash flows are reviewed on subsequent assessment dates as new information becomes available.
Impairments and write-offs Internal measures of credit risk are stated gross of impairments.
 provisions However, impairments and write-offs are used as key indicators of credit Provisions on impaired credits below an agreed threshold are assessed quality as part of the overall assessment of credit risk incurred by RBS.
on a portfolio basis, reflecting the homogeneous nature of the assets.
These are estimated as follows: Such portfolios may be either wholesale or retail.
Impaired definition RBS segments them according to product type, such as credit cards, A financial asset is impaired if there is objective evidence that an event or personal loans and mortgages.
The approach taken to assess impaired events since initial recognition of the asset has adversely affected the assets in collections differs from the approach taken to assess those in amount or timing of future cash flows from it.
The loss is measured as the recoveries.
For further details on the collections and recoveries functions difference between the carrying value of the asset and the present value refer to the Problem debt management sub-section on page 258. of estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Provisions are determined based on a quantitative review of the relevant portfolio.
They take account of the level of arrears, the value of any For both wholesale and personal exposures, days-past-due measures security, and historical and projected cash recovery trends over the are typically used to identify evidence of impairment.
In both corporate recovery period.
The provisions also incorporate any adjustments that and personal portfolios, a period of 90 days past due is used.
In may be deemed appropriate given current economic conditions.
Such sovereign portfolios, the period used is 180 days past due.
Other factors adjustments may be determined based on a review of the latest cash are considered including: the borrowers financial condition: a collections profile and operational processes used in managing forbearance event: a loan restructuring: the probability of bankruptcy: or exposures.
any evidence of diminished cash flows.
Latent loss provisions Provisioning In the performing portfolio, latent loss provisions are held against losses If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred, incurred but not identified before the balance sheet date.
Latent loss the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset provisions reflect probability of default PD and loss given default LGD carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows as well as emergence periods.
The emergence period is the period discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The between the occurrence of the impairment event and the identification current net realisable value of the collateral will be taken into account in and reporting of a loan as impaired.
determining the need for a provision.
This includes cash flows that may result from foreclosure less the costs of obtaining and selling the Emergence periods are estimated at a portfolio level and reflect the collateral, whether or not foreclosure is probable.
No impairment portfolio product characteristics such as coupon period and repayment provision is recognised in cases where amounts due are expected to be terms, and the duration of the administrative process required to report settled in full on realisation of the security.
RBS uses one of the following and identify an impaired loan as such.
Emergence periods vary across three different methods to assess the amount of provision required: different portfolios from 120 to 270 days 365 days for forborne individual: collective: and latent.
They are based on actual experience within the particular portfolio and are reviewed regularly.
RBSs personal businesses segment their performing loan books into homogeneous portfolios such as mortgages, credit cards or unsecured loans, to reflect their different credit characteristics.
Latent provisions are computed by applying portfolio-level LGDs, PDs and emergence periods.
The wholesale calculation is based on similar principles but there is no segmentation into portfolios.
PDs and LGDs are calculated individually.
Refer to pages 288 to 296 for analysis of impaired loans, related unaudited provisions and impairments and 353 to 354 for details of accounting policies.
234 Business review Capital and risk management Available-for-sale portfolios Business loans: Write-off usually occurs within five years.
RBS reviews its portfolios of available-for-sale financial assets for evidence of impairment, which includes: default or delinquency in interest Commercial loans: Write-off generally occurs within five years but is or principal payments: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or determined in the light of individual circumstances.
obligor: and increased likelihood that the issuer will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation.
However, the disappearance of an active Amounts recovered after a loan has been written-off are credited to the market because an entitys financial instruments are no longer publicly loan impairment charge for the period in which they are received.
traded is not evidence of impairment.
Furthermore, a downgrade of an entitys credit rating is not, in itself, evidence of impairment, although it Risk measurement may be evidence of impairment when considered with other available Risk exposure measurement information.
A decline in the fair value of a financial asset below its cost RBS uses a range of measures for credit risk exposures.
The internal or amortised cost is not necessarily evidence of impairment.
Determining measure used, unless otherwise stated, is credit risk assets CRA whether evidence of impairment exists requires the exercise of consisting of: management judgement.
Unrecognised losses on RBSs available-forsale debt securities are concentrated in its portfolios of asset-backed Lending exposure - measured using drawn balances and includes securities.
Such losses reflect the widening of credit spreads as a result cash balances at central banks and loans and advances to banks of the reduced market liquidity in these securities and the current and customers including overdraft facilities, instalment credit and uncertain macroeconomic outlook in the US and Europe.
Counterparty exposures - measured using the marked-to-market Sensitivity of impairments to assumptions value of derivatives after the effect of enforceable netting Key assumptions relating to impairment levels of secured lending relate agreements and regulator-approved models but before the effect of to the valuation of the security and collateral held, the timing of asset collateral.
Counterparty exposures include rate risk management, disposals based on the underlying market depth and liquidity and which includes those arising from foreign exchange transactions, customer cooperation.
Assumptions on timing also include an interest rate swaps, credit default swaps and options.
assessment of the ease and timing of the enforceability of loan Contingent obligations - measured using the value of the committed agreements in varying legal jurisdictions.
Assumptions are made on a amount and including primarily letters of credit and guarantees.
case by case basis in the case of individually assessed provisions and are often based on judgement.
CRA exclude issuer risk primarily debt securities and securities Key assumptions relating to impairment levels of unsecured lending financing transactions.
CRA take account of regulatory netting although, relate to economic conditions and the interest rate environment, which in practice, obligations are settled under legal netting arrangements that have a direct impact on customers' debt servicing capabilities.
For provide a right of legal set-off but do not meet the offset criteria under individual impairments greater than 1 million, oversight is provided by IFRS.
Risk models Write-offs RBS uses the output of credit risk models in the credit approval process, Impaired loans and receivables are written-off, that is, the impairment as well as for ongoing credit risk assessment, monitoring and reporting, provision is applied in writing down the loan's carrying value partially or in to inform credit risk appetite decisions.
These models may be divided into full, when there is no longer any realistic prospect of recovery of part or three categories: all of the loan.
For loans that are individually assessed for impairment, the timing of write-off is determined on a case-by-case basis.
Such loans Probability of default PD are reviewed regularly and write-offs may be prompted by bankruptcy, PD models assess the probability of a customer failing its credit insolvency, forbearance and similar events.
Except for US personal portfolios, where the write-off of the irrecoverable Wholesale models - A number of credit grading models consider risk amount takes place within 60-180 days, the typical time frames from characteristics relevant to different customer types.
These models initial impairment to write-off for  portfolios are: use a combination of quantitative inputs, such as recent financial performance, and qualitative inputs such as management Personal mortgages: Write-off usually occurs within five years of performance or sector outlook.
As part of the credit assessment default and is accelerated where accounts are closed earlier.
process, RBS assigns each customer an internal credit grade based Credit cards: Write-off of the irrecoverable amount usually occurs at on its PD.
12 months in arrears: the rest is expected to be recovered over a Personal models - Each customer account is scored and models are further three years following which any remaining amounts used to assign a PD.
Inputs vary across portfolios and include both outstanding are written off.
internal account and customer level data, as well as data from credit Overdrafts and other unsecured loans: Write-off usually occurs bureaus.
This score is used to support automated credit decisionwithin six years of default.
making through the use of a  scorecard.
unaudited 235 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Exposure at default EAD Risk mitigation EAD models provide estimates of credit facility utilisation at the time of a Risk mitigation techniques are used in the management of credit customer default, recognising that customers may make further drawings portfolios across RBS, typically to mitigate credit concentrations in on unused credit facilities prior to default or that exposures may increase relation to an individual customer, a borrower group or a collection of due to market movements.
Regulatory requirements stipulate that EAD related borrowers.
Where possible, customer credit balances are netted must always be equal to, or higher, than current utilisation.
be reduced by a legally enforceable netting agreement.
Mitigation tools applied can include: structuring a security interest in a Loss given default LGD physical or financial asset: use of credit derivatives, including credit LGD models estimate the amount that cannot be recovered in the event default swaps, credit-linked debt instruments and securitisation of customer default.
When estimating LGD, RBSs models assess both structures: and use of guarantees and similar instruments for example, borrower and facility characteristics, as well as any credit risk mitigants.
credit insurance from related and third parties.
The cost of collections and a time-discount factor for the delay in cash recovery are also incorporated.
When seeking to mitigate risk, at a minimum RBS considers the following: Changes to credit models RBS reviews and updates models on an ongoing basis, reflecting the The suitability of the proposed risk mitigation, particularly if impact of more recent data, changes to products and portfolios, and new restrictions apply: regulatory requirements.
Extensive changes were made to wholesale models in 2012 and 2013.
This continued in 2014 with further changes, The means by which legal certainty is to be established, including notably in the corporate exposure class.
required documentation, supportive legal opinions and the steps needed to establish legal rights: New PD models are being implemented for large corporate customers.
The roll-out will be completed by mid-2015.
The updated calibrations The acceptability of the methodologies to be used for initial and associated with these new models, which reference over 20 years of subsequent valuation of collateral, the frequency of valuations and rating agency default experience, may result in downwards rating the advance rates given: migrations across internal asset quality bands.
For further information regarding the impact of this change refer to the Asset quality section on The actions which can be taken if the value of collateral or other page 240. mitigants is less than needed: Model changes affect year-on-year comparisons of risk measures in The risk that the value of mitigants and counterparty credit quality certain disclosures.
Where meaningful, in its commentary RBS has may deteriorate simultaneously: differentiated between instances where movements in risk measures reflect the impact of model changes, and those where such movements The need to manage concentration risks arising from collateral reflect changes in the size of underlying credit portfolios or their credit types: and quality.
The need to ensure that any risk mitigation remains legally effective Economic capital and enforceable.
The credit economic capital model is a framework that allows for the calculation of portfolio credit loss distributions and associated metrics The RBS business and credit teams are supported by specialist in-house over a given risk horizon for a variety of business purposes.
RBS uses industry-standard loan and security documentation wherever possible.
However, when non-standard The model takes into account migration risk the risk that credit assets documentation is used, external lawyers are employed to review it on a will deteriorate in credit quality across multiple years, factor correlation case-by-case basis.
For further information refer to the Wholesale credit the assumption that groups of obligors share a common factor and risk management and Personal credit risk management sub-sections.
contagion risk for example, the risk that the weakening of the sovereigns credit worthiness has a significant impact on the creditworthiness of a business operating in that country.
unaudited 236 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk assets Balance sheet to CRA bridge The table below provides a bridge between balance sheet captions and the related components of credit risk assets CRA.
Methodology Within Not within Netting differences Balance the scope of the scope Credit and Disposal and sheet market risk 1 of CRA 2 adjustments 3 collateral 4 groups 5 reclassifications 6 CRA 2014 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 74.9 3.8 0.6 71.7 Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing 64.7 64.7 Loans and advances 357.3 18.0 33.4 62.2 10.3 393.8 Debt securities 86.6 49.3 52.6 15.3 Equity shares 5.6 4.9 1.3 0.6 Settlement balances 4.7 4.7 Derivatives 353.6 1.4 295.3 0.4 8.2 68.3 Other assets 7 103.4 18.5 79.1 3.5 2.3 Total assets 1,050.8 58.9 140.9 19.4 328.7 5.6 536.1 Contingent obligations 26.0 562.1 2013 Cash and balances at central banks 82.7 3.9 1.7 80.5 Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing 76.4 76.4 Loans and advances 418.4 3.0 25.2 28.4 1.8 9.3 404.7 Debt securities 113.6 56.7 56.9 Equity shares 8.8 7.2 1.6 Settlement balances 5.6 5.6 Derivatives 288.0 1.8 242.8 9.9 56.9 Other assets 7 34.4 25.6 1.8 6.0 1.0 Total assets 1,027.9 69.5 167.4 27.0 271.2 3.7 543.1 Contingent obligations 29.9 573.0 Notes: 1 The exposures in regulatory trading book businesses are subject to market risk and are hence excluded from CRA.
2 Includes cash in ATMs and branches, reverse repurchase agreements, securities and other assets refer to note below.
3 Includes impairment loss provisions related to loans and advances and credit valuation adjustment on derivatives.
4 Comprises: - Loans and advances: cash collateral pledged with counterparties in relation to net derivative liability positions.
5 Amounts reclassified to balance sheet lines.
6 Primarily includes: - Loans and advances: cash management pooling arrangements not allowed under IFRS.
- Derivatives: differences between netting arrangements and regulatory model sets and balances with central counterparties after netting but before variation margin presented net on the balance sheet.
7 Includes intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, deferred tax, prepayments and accrued income and assets of disposal groups.
This is in line with the continued focus on reducing exposure of industry sectors, in line with business strategy and risk appetite.
concentrations, improving overall portfolio credit quality and running Growth in personal CRA was driven by increases in auto finance down assets in RCR.
and residential mortgages, following portfolio acquisitions during the year, partially offset by a reduction in home equity exposures, RCR was established on 1 January 2014 and the most capital including continued run-off in the non-performing portfolio.
In intensive, highest-risk assets from across RBS were transferred into addition foreign exchange movements also affected the CFG it.
As part of this process, certain assets which were previously exposure, with 30% of the increase in CFG exposure driven by managed as Non-Core were returned to the non-RCR businesses.
Non-Core and RCR are therefore not directly comparable year on year.
The creation of RCR and run-down of assets within it has contributed significantly to the reduction in wholesale exposure Excluding RCR, CRA in PBB and CPB represented 48% of during the year.
In particular there has been a significant decrease exposures while CIB represented 28% and CFG 12%.
CPB in wholesale exposures in Ulster Bank.
Ulster Banks portfolio now exposures have remained stable with a 2% increase in Commercial comprises 68% personal exposure, up from 61% at 2013, with the Banking partially offset by a 7% reduction in Private Banking, where majority of wholesale exposure to SME customers.
the largest reduction in exposure in wholesale was in the banking sector and the remainder of the reduction predominantly driven by Central items predominantly represent RBS Treasurys exposures to personal lending central banks in the UK and US.
Central items exposure fell 6% during the year, predominantly in the UK and Western Europe, Personal exposure grew by 2% during 2014.
This was driven driven by RBSs liquidity requirements and cash positions.
predominantly by growth in UK PBBs mortgage book as well as a rise in CFGs mortgage and auto finance exposures.
For further At the year end, RCR accounted for 5% of total CRA 2013 Nonanalysis of the personal portfolios refer to pages 258 to 273.
Core - 8% as asset disposals and run-offs continued.
50% of RCR exposure was in the property sector as RBS continued to reduce its concentration in this sector, in particular relating to CRE.
For further analysis of exposures in the wholesale portfolio refer to pages 242 to 257. unaudited 238 Business review Capital and risk management Sector and geographical regional analyses The table below details CRA by business type and geographical region.
Geographical region is based on the location of the customers operations or, in the case of individuals, location of residence.
Western Europe North Asia Latin RBS UK excl.
Key points There was no material change in wholesale sector distribution CRA fell in all geographic regions except North America.
The during the year, with proportionate reductions observed throughout increase in North America resulted from increased exposures to the portfolio.
sovereigns and banks as well as increased exposure in both the wholesale and personal portfolios in CFG.
Foreign exchange For the wholesale portfolio, sector analysis on a geographic basis movements also contributed to the increased exposure in North can be found on page 246.
Information on personal portfolios can be America.
The main driver behind the wholesale reduction in the UK was reduced exposure in central bank and CRE down 22% and 18% respectively.
unaudited 239 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Asset quality AQ Credit grades play a key role in the internal reporting and oversight of Exposures are allocated to asset quality bands on the basis of statistically CRA.
Customers are assigned credit grades based on various credit driven models, which produce estimates of default rates.
The variables grading models that reflect the key drivers of default for each customer included in the models vary by product and geography.
All credit grades map to both a RBS level asset quality scale, used secured on residential property, these models typically include measures for external financial reporting, and a master grading scale for wholesale of delinquency and loan-to-value as well as other differentiating exposures, used for internal management reporting across portfolios.
characteristics such as product features or account performance Accordingly, measures of risk exposure may be aggregated and reported information.
at differing levels of detail depending on stakeholder or business requirements.
Performing loans are defined as AQ1-AQ9 where the PD The table below shows CRA by asset quality band.
is less than 100% and non-performing loans as AQ10 where the PD is 100%.
Key points The reduction in the proportion of non-RCR exposures in the AQ1 The proportion of exposure in the AQ10 band fell to 5% of the total band reflected the reduction in exposure to sovereigns, as well as portfolio, driven by the disposal strategy in RCR and the improving changes to the large corporate grading models.
The updated economic climate which also drove lower impairments during the calibrations associated with these new models resulted in rating year.
migrations from higher to lower quality AQ bands, mostly in bands AQ1-AQ5 those associated with lower risk exposures.
At 31 Overall asset quality for performing assets improved year-on-year December 2014, 14% of RBSs exposure was graded using these with AQ1-AQ4 increasing overall by 6%.
AQ1-AQ4 represented 60% models and 64% had been re-rated using the revised models.
of the portfolio at the year end 2013 - 55%.
Approximately 40% of re-rated large corporate customers retained their existing AQ band, with 40% moving down one AQ band and In addition to driving provision releases on individual cases, the 15% moving down two AQ bands.
improvement in credit quality had a positive impact on the underlying risk metrics PD and LGD used in collective and latent provisioning.
The increase in AQ4 was caused by the recalibration of models for UK personal mortgages to reflect continued improvements in observed default rates and the implementation of the large corporate grading model.
unaudited 241 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Wholesale credit risk management Wholesale credit risk management focuses on the credit risks arising The sector concentration framework was revised in 2014.
Previously, from activities with corporate and SME clients as well as banks, other sectors were classified according to size.
Under the revised sector financial institutions and sovereigns.
framework, sectors are classified according to their risk based on EC and various qualitative factors as well as size.
This classification drives Risk appetite frameworks the level of oversight and frequency of sector reviews.
Reviews may Four formal frameworks are used to manage wholesale credit include an assessment of business strategy, credit risk profile, key risks concentration risk.
RBS continually reassesses its frameworks to ensure and mitigants, the current and expected future external environment, they remain appropriate for its varied business franchises and current vulnerability to stress events, regulatory developments and economic economic conditions as well as to reflect further refinements in RBSs risk capital usage to derive a proposed risk appetite along with transaction measurement models.
Single name concentration As a result of the reviews carried out in 2014, RBS further reduced its risk A single name concentration SNC framework addresses the risk of appetite in its most material corporate sector, CRE, as well as a number outsized loss arising from a concentration of credit risk to a single of other corporate sectors such as retail, leisure and oil and gas.
This borrower or borrower group.
The framework includes elevated approval was in addition to the reduction of RCR exposures.
For further details on authority, additional reporting and monitoring, and the requirement for sector-specific strategies, exposure reduction and key credit risks, refer plans to address exposures in excess of appetite.
SNC excesses are reviewed on a gross basis as well as on a net basis Product and asset class concentration framework after taking mitigation into account.
All net excesses are managed Product and asset class concentration risk is the risk of an outsized loss through an approved, customer specific, exposure management plan.
To arising from a concentration in certain products or asset classes.
The reduce its SNC exposures, RBS may decide to sell excess amounts or product and asset class framework monitors specific credit risk types rely on mitigation.
To be considered effective under the framework, such as settlement or wrong-way risk and products such as long-dated mitigation must be eligible.
Examples of eligible credit risk mitigants derivatives or securitisations.
These product and asset classes may include cash collateral, government or bank guarantees, credit default require specific policies and expertise as well as tailored monitoring and swaps or trade insurance.
Eligible credit risk mitigants must also be reporting measures.
In some cases specific limits and thresholds are structurally effective, legally certain, enforceable and characterised by an deployed to ensure that the credit risk inherent in these lines of business appropriate maturity profile.
and products is adequately controlled.
Exposures are reviewed regularly in accordance with the product and asset class concentration framework.
Aggregate SNC exposures remain outside of RBSs longer-term appetite.
The reviews consider the risks inherent in each product or asset class, However, material reductions have been achieved since the framework the risk controls applied, monitoring and reporting of the risk, the client was introduced.
This trend continued during the year, with a 52% base, and any emerging risks to ensure risk appetite remains decrease in the number of excesses.
The top ten SNC excesses appropriate.
comprise 95% of RBSs total SNC excesses.
Total SNC exposure was reduced by 43%.
Country concentration The country concentration framework is described in the Country risk Sector concentration section on pages 323 to 329.
Sector concentration risk is the risk of an outsized loss arising from a concentration of credit risk to customers in the same sector or across Risk assessment sectors that are susceptible to similar stress events.
The sector The credit risk function assesses, approves and manages the credit risk concentration framework enables RBS to manage this risk and acts as associated with a borrower or group of related borrowers.
one of the primary mechanisms for cascading the board-approved risk appetite to business franchises.
It also details the controls for managing The Group Chief Credit Officer has established a framework of individual and reporting credit exposure to industry sectors.
delegated authorities, which are set out in the RBS Credit Risk Policy.
The framework requires at least two individuals to approve each credit decision, one from the business and one from the credit risk function.
Both must hold appropriate delegated authority, which is dependent on their experience and expertise.
Only a small number of senior executives hold the highest authority provided under the framework.
While both parties are accountable for the quality of each decision taken, the credit risk approver holds ultimate sanctioning authority.
unaudited 242 Business review Capital and risk management Assessments of credit risk must, at a minimum, specifically address the All collateral is assessed case-by-case to ensure that it will retain its following elements: value independently of the provider.
RBS monitors the value of the collateral and, if there is a shortfall, will seek additional collateral.
The amount, terms, tenor, structure, conditions, purpose and appropriateness of all credit facilities: Problem debt management Early problem identification Compliance with applicable RBS-wide and or franchise-level credit Each segment has defined early warning indicators EWIs to identify policies: customers experiencing financial difficulty, and to increase monitoring if The customers ability to meet obligations, based on an analysis of needed.
EWIs may be internal, such as a customers bank account financial information and a review of payment and covenant activity, or external, such as a publicly-listed customers share price.
If compliance history: EWIs show a customer is experiencing potential or actual difficulty, credit officers within the business franchise may decide to place the customer The source of repayment and the customers risk profile, including on the Watchlist.
its sector and sensitivity to economic and market developments, and any credit risk mitigation: Watchlist For customers not managed in RCR, there are three Watch Refinancing risk - the risk of loss arising from the failure of a classifications - Amber, Red and Black - reflecting progressively customer to settle an obligation on expiry of a facility through the deteriorating conditions.
Watch Amber customers are performing drawdown of another credit facility provided by RBS or by another customers who show early signs of potential financial difficulty, or have lender: other characteristics that warrant closer monitoring.
Watch Red Consideration of other risks such as environmental, social and customers are performing customers who show signs of declining ethical, regulatory and reputational risks: and creditworthiness and so require active management usually by Restructuring formerly known as Global Restructuring Group.
The The portfolio impact of the transaction, including the impact on any Watch Black portfolio includes AQ10 exposures.
credit risk concentration limits or agreed business franchise risk appetite.
Once on the Watchlist, depending on the severity of the financial difficulty and the size of the exposure, the customer relationship strategy is At a minimum, credit relationships are reviewed and re-approved reassessed by credit officers, by specialist credit risk or relationship annually.
The renewal process addresses borrower performance, management units in the relevant business or by Restructuring.
In including reconfirmation or adjustment of risk parameter estimates: the accordance with RBS-wide policies, a number of mandatory actions are adequacy of security: compliance with terms and conditions: and taken, including a review of the customers credit grade and facility and refinancing risk.
Risk mitigation In more material cases, a forum of experienced credit, portfolio RBS mitigates credit risk through the use of netting, collateral and the use management and remedial management specialists in either the relevant of market standard documentation.
business or Restructuring may reassess the customer relationship strategy.
The types of collateral RBS takes to mitigate the credit risk arising from wholesale lending varies according to the nature of the counterparty and Appropriate corrective action is taken when circumstances emerge that its assets.
The most common types are: may affect the customers ability to service its debt.
Such circumstances include deteriorating trading performance, imminent breach of covenant, Commercial real estate - Refer to CRE section on page 251. challenging macroeconomic conditions, a late payment or the expectation Other physical assets - These may include stock, plant, equipment, of a missed payment.
machinery, vehicles, ships and aircraft.
Such assets are suitable collateral only if RBS can identify, locate, and segregate them from For all Watch Red cases, credit specialists in the relevant business are other assets on which it does not have a claim.
RBS values physical required to consult with their counterparts in Restructuring on whether the assets in a variety of different ways, depending on the type of asset relationship should be transferred to Restructuring for more information concerned and may rely on balance sheet valuations in certain on Restructuring, refer to the section below.
Watch Red customers that cases.
continue to be managed by the business tend to be those requiring subject matter expertise that is available in the business rather than in Receivables - These are amounts owed to RBSs counterparties by Restructuring.
RBS values them after taking into account the quality of its counterpartys receivable management processes and excluding any that are past due.
Financial collateral - Refer to Counterparty credit risk section on page 257. unaudited 243 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Forbearance Remediation strategies available in the business include granting a Definition customer various types of concessions.
Any decision to approve a Forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the contractual concession will be a function of specific country and sector appetite, the terms of a loan in response to a customers financial difficulties.
credit quality of the customer, the market environment and the loan structure and security.
For further information, refer to the Forbearance Concessions granted where there is no evidence of financial difficulty, or section below.
where any changes to terms and conditions are within usual risk appetite for a new customer, or reflect improving credit market conditions for the Other potential outcomes of the relationship review are to: take the customer, are not considered forbearance.
customer off the Watchlist: offer additional lending and continue monitoring: transfer the relationship to Restructuring if appropriate: or exit A number of options are available.
These are tailored to the customers the relationship altogether.
The aim is to restore the customer to financial health and to minimise risk to RBS.
To ensure that forbearance is Customers managed in RCR are by their nature subject to heightened appropriate for the needs and financial profile of the customer, RBS scrutiny and regular review against specific disposal plans.
RCR applies minimum standards when assessing, recording, monitoring and customers are separately identified in RBSs internal Watchlist reporting, reporting forbearance.
with their Watchlist classification based on asset quality.
Types of wholesale forbearance Restructuring Wholesale forbearance may involve the following types of concessions: Separately to the Credit Risk management function, the Restructuring team manages RBSs wholesale problem debt portfolio in cases where its Payment concessions and loan rescheduling, including extensions in exposure to the customer exceeds 1 million.
In addition, Restructuring contractual maturity, may be granted to improve the customers liquidity.
has a specialist credit function, the Strategy Management Unit, for Concessions may also be granted on the expectation that the customers distressed bilateral lending where the exposure is between 250,000 and liquidity will recover when market conditions improve.
may be granted if the customer will benefit from access to alternative sources of liquidity, such as an issue of equity capital.
These options The factor common to all customers managed by Restructuring is that have been used in CRE transactions, particularly during periods where a RBSs exposure is outside risk appetite.
The primary function of shortage of market liquidity has ruled out immediate refinancing and Restructuring is to restore customers to an acceptable credit profile, made short-term collateral sales unattractive.
minimise losses to RBS and protect RBSs capital.
Debt may be forgiven, or exchanged for equity, where the customers Specialists in Restructuring work with customers experiencing financial business condition or economic environment is such that it cannot meet difficulties, and showing signs of financial stress, with the aim of restoring obligations and where other forms of forbearance are unlikely to succeed.
their business to financial health whenever possible.
The objective is to Debt forgiveness can be used for stressed corporate transactions and find a mutually acceptable solution, including repayment, refinancing or are typically structured on the basis of projected cash flows from transfer to another bank if that is the customers preferred option.
operational activities, rather than underlying tangible asset values.
Provided that the underlying business model, strategy and debt level are The specialists conduct a detailed assessment of the viability of the viable, maintaining the business as a going concern is the preferred business, as well as the ability of management to deal with the causes of option, rather than realising the value of the underlying assets.
financial difficulty, focusing on both financial and operational issues.
Following the assessment, various options are discussed with the The contractual margin may be amended to bolster the customers daycustomer which may involve debt restructuring or forbearance or both to-day liquidity to help sustain its business as a going concern.
This and bespoke solutions are developed.
would normally be a short-term solution.
As set out above, RBS would seek to obtain a return commensurate to the risk that it is required to take If the customers finances are not viable and a mutually agreed exit is not and this can be structured as set out above.
possible, insolvency may be considered as a last resort.
However, helping the customer return to financial health and restoring a normal A temporary covenant waiver, a recalibration of covenants or a covenant banking relationship is always the desired goal.
amendment may be used to cure a potential or actual covenant breach.
In return for this relief, RBS would seek to obtain a return commensurate with the risk that it is required to take.
The increased return for the increased risk can be structured flexibly to take into account the customers circumstances.
For example it may be structured as either increased margin on a cash or payment in kind basis, deferred return instruments or both.
While RBS considers these types of concessions qualitatively different from other forms of forbearance, they constitute a significant proportion of wholesale forborne loans and are therefore included in these forbearance disclosures.
244 Business review Capital and risk management Loans may be forborne more than once, generally where a temporary All wholesale customers are assigned a PD and related facilities a LGD.
concession has been granted and circumstances warrant another These are re-assessed prior to finalising any forbearance arrangement in temporary or permanent revision of the loans terms.
All customers are light of the loans amended terms and any revised grading incorporated in assigned a PD and related facilities a LGD.
These are re-assessed prior the calculation of the impairment loss provisions for RBSs wholesale to finalising any forbearance arrangement in light of the loans amended exposures.
terms and any revised grading is incorporated in the calculation of the impairment loss provisions for RBSs wholesale exposures.
Where For performing loans, credit metrics are an integral part of the latent forbearance is no longer viable, RBS will consider other options such as provision methodology and therefore the impact of covenant concessions the enforcement of security, insolvency proceedings or both.
will be reflected in the latent provision.
For non-performing loans, covenant concessions will be considered in determining the overall The ultimate outcome of a forbearance strategy is unknown at the time of provision for these loans.
It is highly dependent on the cooperation of the borrower and the continued existence of a viable business.
The following are generally In the case of non-performing forborne loans, the loan impairment considered to be options of last resort: provision assessment almost invariably takes place prior to forbearance being granted.
The amount of the loan impairment provision may change Enforcement of security or otherwise taking control of assets - once the terms of the forbearance are known, resulting in an additional Where RBS holds collateral or other security interest and is entitled provision charge or a release of the provision in the period the to enforce its rights, it may enforce its security or otherwise take forbearance is granted.
The preferred strategy is to consider other possible options prior to exercising these rights.
The transfer of wholesale loans subject to forbearance from impaired to performing status follows assessment by relationship managers and the Insolvency - Where there is no suitable forbearance option or the Credit Risk function in Restructuring.
When no further losses are business is no longer sustainable, insolvency will be considered.
anticipated and the customer is expected to meet the loans revised Insolvency may be the only option that ensures that the assets of terms, any provision is written-off and the balance of the loan returned to the business are properly and efficiently distributed to relevant performing status.
This course of action is not dependent on a specified creditors.
time period and follows the credit risk managers assessment that it is appropriate.
Impairments for forbearance Wholesale loans granted forbearance are individually assessed in most Impairments cases and are not therefore segregated into a separate risk pool.
Impairments in the wholesale portfolio decreased compared with 2013.
This reflected a better economic environment as well as improvements in Forbearance may result in the value of the outstanding debt exceeding asset values in core markets.
the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
This may result in the recognition of an impairment loss or a write-off.
There was a significant amount of credit impairment release during 2014, in particular in RCR where the favourable environment and efficient deal Provisions for forborne wholesale loans are assessed in accordance with execution supported the disposal strategy.
Improved market appetite and normal provisioning policies.
The customers financial position and greater liquidity was demonstrated, particularly in Ireland, where assets prospects as well as the likely effect of the forbearance, including any have been realised more quickly and at better prices, than previously concessions granted, are considered in order to establish whether an anticipated.
Lower customer defaults in the business and commercial elements of PBB and CPB resulted in modest new impairments in the wholesale portfolio.
The majority of provisions in the wholesale portfolio relate to CRE.
For further analysis of the provisions in the CRE portfolio refer to page 251.
245 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Sector and geographical regional analyses The table below details CRA by sector and geographical region for the wholesale portfolio.
Sectors are based on RBSs sector concentration framework.
2 Includes cash held at central banks.
3 Excludes net investment in operating leases in shipping and aviation portfolios as they are accounted for as property, plant and equipment.
However, operating leases are included in the monitoring and management of these portfolios.
unaudited 246 Business review Capital and risk management Key points Shipping The revised RBS strategy and the creation of RCR as well as the general RBSs exposure to the shipping sector, which is mostly within RCR economic environment had a direct impact on the portfolios during the and CIB, declined 9% during the year, from 11.4 billion to 10.4 year, with the following key trends observed: billion.
The reduction was a result of scheduled loan repayments, secondary sales RCR and prepayments.
Financial institutions Of the total exposure to the shipping sector, 7.9 billion 2013 - 8.6 The banking sector was one of the largest in the portfolio with billion related to asset-backed ocean-going vessels.
5.7 billion of exposure totalling 41.6 billion.
Exposures were well diversified the asset-backed ocean-going vessel exposures were in CIB.
geographically and limits are controlled through a combination of the single name concentration framework, credit policies and country The main concentration risks were the bulk sector which limits.
Overall exposure did not change materially, with the decrease represented 38% of the portfolio: tankers at 29% and containers at in Asia Pacific largely driven by a reduction in lending in China 17%.
The remaining exposures comprised gas, including liquid partially offset by increases in North America, Western Europe and petroleum gas 10% and others 6%.
Derivatives continued to generate the largest exposure for banks 70% of credit risk assets in the banks sector.
Conditions remained generally subdued during 2014.
There has been a recent upturn in rates for tankers due to the fall in oil prices Exposures to a range of financial companies, the largest of which but difficulties remained for containers due to over supply.
The were funds 26% - 25% in 2013, securitisation vehicles 19% - 22% majority of RBSs exposure is extended against security in vessels in 2013, finance companies 17% - 14% in 2013 and financial of recent build average age across the portfolio of 6.4 years intermediaries 16% - unchanged from 2013 including broker including RCR with less than 3% of the CIB book being above 15 dealers and central counterparties CCPs.
The non-RCR other years of age.
87% of the portfolio was below 10 years.
financial institutions exposure increased by 10% in 2014 driven by increased exposures to securitisation vehicles and finance A key protection for RBS is the minimum security covenant.
Product-based sub-limits were in place to ensure that overall loan-to-value LTV on the portfolio was 77%.
The LTV for exposure remained within appetite.
the RCR portfolio was 92% and for the remaining portfolio was 73%.
In the CIB portfolio, approximately 20% of the portfolio had LTVs At the year end, the total exposure to CCPs was 5.4 billion 2013 - above 100%.
4.1 billion as regulatory initiatives encouraged the wider use of CCPs for clearing over-the-counter derivatives.
Oil and gas Within natural resources, RBS had 10.7 billion of CRA in exposure The sovereign portfolio comprised exposures to central banks, to the oil and gas sector.
CRA increased by 5% 528 million during central governments and sub-sovereigns such as local authorities, 2014.
Further disclosures regarding exposure to this sector are primarily in the UK, US and Western Europe.
Exposures to central detailed on page 256. banks were 75.3 billion at the year end, a reduction of 6% from 2013 driven by fluctuations in RBS Treasury activities.
Other corporate sectors Exposure to the manufacturing sector increased by 7% driven Property predominantly by increases in the industrials and agriculture subThe majority of property exposure was CRE related in Ireland and sectors which increased by 10% and 9% respectively during the the UK refer to the CRE section on page 251 for further details.
The remainder comprised lending to construction companies and building materials groups, which decreased by 5% following a 15% The reduction in exposure to the retail and leisure sector was in line reduction in 2013, and housing associations, which increased by with selective risk appetite.
The reductions were predominantly in 14% 2013 - 12% and contributed to an improvement in the credit relation to Ulster Bank and CIB exposure, partially offset by modest quality of the property portfolio.
23% of total property exposure was growth in CFG in line with business strategy.
The CPB retail and in RCR and the run-down of RCR property exposure contributed leisure portfolio was stable compared to last year.
significantly to the improvement of portfolio asset quality.
The CIB and CPB franchises accounted for 75% of total non-RCR property Exposure in the telecoms, media and technology sector fell by 7% exposure.
Property exposures in Ireland including RCR during the year mostly driven by a 22% reduction in telecoms.
represented 12% of property CRA down from 15% in 2013.
Exposure in healthcare was 8.9 billion at the year end 2013 - 9.5 billion with the exposure heavily biased towards the UK, which unaudited represented 69% of the exposure 70% in 2013.
2 Excludes net investment in operating leases in shipping and aviation portfolios as they are accounted for as property, plant and equipment.
Key points Property and in particular CRE continued to be the largest sector in The proportion of the wholesale portfolio rated AQ10 fell significantly wholesale non-performing assets - 68% of total AQ10 exposure during the year.
This was driven by asset disposals as well as write- 2013 - 73%.
Shipping represented 3.7% of wholesale non-performing assets, Trends in the wholesale non-performing credit risk exposures in largely unchanged from 2013.
2014 were predominantly driven by the RCR portfolio which accounted for 74% of the AQ10 CRA.
Wholesale non-performing assets originated in Ulster Bank including RCR decreased by 32%, representing 56% of total Excluding RCR less than 2% of wholesale exposure was rated Wholesale non-performing assets 2013 - 53%.
unaudited 248 Business review Capital and risk management Watchlist At 31 December 2014, exposures to customers reported as Watchlist Red and managed by Restructuring were 2.9 billion 2013 - 12.7 billion and those managed in the business were 1.1 billion 2013 - 3.2 billion.
The following table shows a sector breakdown of Watchlist Red customers managed by Restructuring.
2014 2013 2012 Total RBS RBS excluding excluding excluding RCR Non-Core Non-Core Total Non-Core Non-Core Total Watchlist Red CRA by current exposure m m m m m m m Property 917 3,178 1,841 5,019 5,605 4,377 9,982 Transport 327 1,791 456 2,247 2,238 478 2,716 Retail and leisure 386 1,092 237 1,329 1,542 432 1,974 Services 511 955 40 995 870 84 954 Other 758 2,312 804 3,116 3,087 1,177 4,264 Total 2,899 9,328 3,378 12,706 13,342 6,548 19,890 Key points The remaining Restructuring population decreased during the year The number of Watchlist Red customers decreased significantly in both in number and value.
This reflects a reduced flow of cases into 2014 as a result of the transfer of exposures to RCR.
Customers Restructuring, repayments and cases improving from Watchlist Red.
managed in RCR are subject to heightened scrutiny and regular review against specific disposal plans.
A breakdown of the asset quality of the RCR portfolio is provided on page 240.
Forbearance The table below shows the value of loans excluding loans where RBS has initiated recovery procedures where forbearance was completed during the year, by sector and type.
unaudited 249 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Forbearance arrangements The table below shows the incidence of the main types of wholesale forbearance arrangements by loan value.
2014 2013 2012 Wholesale forbearance during the year by arrangement type 1 % % % Payment concessions and loan rescheduling 73 78 49 Covenant-only concessions 20 16 30 Forgiveness of all or part of the outstanding debt 4 9 21 Variation in margin 4 2 6 Other 2 7 31 14 Notes: 1 Total exceeds 100% as an individual case can involve more than one type of forbearance.
2 The main types of other concessions include formal standstill agreements and release of security.
Key points Non-RCR customers managed by Restructuring were granted Forbearance completed on loans decreased during 2014 compared forbearance on loan facilities totalling 1.3 billion during 2014.
This was in line both with improving market conditions equates to 34.1% of loans managed by Restructuring excluding and the RCR disposal strategy.
loans to customers where recovery procedures have commenced.
Year-on-year analysis of forborne loans may be skewed by Of the loans granted forbearance by Restructuring excluding those individual material cases during a given year.
This is particularly transferred to RCR in 2013, 24% returned to performing portfolios relevant when comparing the value of forbearance completed in the managed by the originating businesses by 31 December 2014. property and transport sectors in 2014 with previous years.
Some non-forborne loans were also returned from Restructuring to performing portfolios managed by the originating businesses.
Loans totalling 4.3 billion were granted credit approval for forbearance but had not yet reached legal completion at 31 4.8 billion of completed forbearance granted during the year was to December 2014 2013 - 9.4 billion.
These loans are referred to as customers managed by RCR.
RCR uses forbearance as a tool to in process and are not included in the tables above.
84% of these assist with the orderly realisation of assets.
By value, 94% of the were non-performing loans, with associated provision coverage of performing non-RCR loans granted forbearance in 2013 remained 48%: and 16% were performing loans.
The principal types of performing at 31 December 2014. arrangements offered were payment concessions and loan rescheduling.
Provisions for the non-performing loans disclosed above are individually assessed and therefore not directly comparable across Forbearance in the transport sector was historically driven by periods.
Provision coverage increased in 2014, driven by the exposure to shipping.
There has been lower forbearance in the provision coverage level in Ulster Bank including Ulster Bank RCR shipping portfolio in 2014 as asset values have improved, reducing cases.
the instances of minimum security covenant breaches.
The data presented in the tables above include loans forborne The value of loans forborne during 2013 and 2014 and still during 2012 and 2013 which individually exceeded thresholds set at outstanding at 31 December 2014 was 12.2 billion 2013 - 18.4 franchise or reportable segment level.
RBS continues to refine its billion: 2012 - 17.7 billion, of which 3.4 billion related to reporting processes for forborne loans.
During 2012 the reporting arrangements completed during 2013 2012 - 8.0 billion: 2011 - threshold ranged from nil to 10 million and from 2013 until April 9.3 billion.
2014 thresholds ranged from nil to 3 million.
From April 2014 no threshold were in use.
Additional provisions charged in 2014 relating to loans forborne during 2013 totalled 0.6 billion, predominantly driven by RCR and Restructuring cases.
Provision coverage of these loans at 31 December 2014 was 77%.
250 Business review Capital and risk management Key credit portfolios Commercial real estate The commercial real estate CRE sector comprised exposures to entities involved in the development of, or investment in, commercial and residential properties including house builders.
The analysis of lending utilisations below is gross of impairment provisions and excludes rate risk management and contingent obligations.
During 2014, an RBS-wide centre of excellence was created to develop, implement and oversee risk management strategy for this portfolio.
The centre of excellence is responsible for the management of CRE credit risk, including setting CRE-specific credit risk appetite, credit policies and portfolio controls as well as oversight of valuations, environmental and flood appraisals.
This sector is reviewed regularly at the Credit Risk Committee CRC and Executive Risk Forum ERF due to its relative size and riskiness.
Both CRC and ERF monitor the performance of the portfolio to ensure it remains in line with expectations relative to credit quality, capital consumption and control framework compliance.
Ongoing credit risk management is supported by dedicated credit teams covering the CPB and CIB portfolios, a team specialising in commercial and residential property developments, and senior underwriters sanctioning the most sizeable and complex CRE exposures.
At 31 December 2013 CRE lending in Private Banking totalled 1.4 billion 2012 - 1.4 billion.
2 ROI: Republic of Ireland: NI: Northern Ireland: RoW: Rest of World.
Key points The overall gross lending exposure to CRE fell by 9.3 billion 18% The increase in US exposure was predominantly driven by improved to 43.3 billion.
Most of the decrease occurred in RCR exposure economic conditions, which contributed to increased business originated by Ulster Bank, CPB and CIB and was due to volumes in CFG, in line with risk appetite and business strategy.
repayments, asset sales and write-offs.
The RCR portfolio of 12.6 billion represented 29% of the RBS CRE portfolio.
Geographically, 67% of the RCR portfolio was held in Ireland, 22% in the UK, 10% in Western Europe and 1% in the US and the rest of world.
2 Predominantly comprises overdrafts for which there is no single maturity date.
3 The UK PBB portfolio comprises Business Banking and Williams & Glyn CRE exposure.
Williams & Glyn accounts for 3.3 billion 79%.
Key points Reductions in the Ulster Bank less than one year band between The overall maturity profile has changed, with the proportion of 2013 and 2014 are predominantly the result of transfers to RCR.
short-term 1 year maturities reducing in favour of more medium term 3 years maturities.
This reflected the reductions in RCR as well as new lending activity in Commercial Banking and CFG.
significant reduction in the proportion rated AQ10.
This was a result of reductions in RCR, improving general market conditions and the quality of new lending activity which is subject to the policies and controls put in place in recent years.
unaudited 253 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Credit risk mitigation for commercial real estate The market value of the collateral typically exceeds the loan amount at origination date.
The market value is defined as the estimated amount for which the asset could be sold in an arms length transaction by a willing seller to a willing buyer.
External valuations for CRE lending are required at the inception of the loan.
In addition to external valuations at inception, RBS uses a range of other types of information to value such collateral, including expert judgement and indices.
External valuations may be sought should an adverse credit event occur - this requirement is assessed as part of the Watchlist process.
The table below shows CRE Non-RCR and RCR lending split by loan-to-value ratio, which represents loan value before provisions relative to the value of the property financed.
Provisions are marked against these loans where required to reflect the relevant asset quality and recovery profile.
254 Business review Capital and risk management Key points The average LTV for the performing book improved from 65% to Interest on performing investment property secured loans was 57% over the past year.
The LTV for the performing portfolio in the covered 1.6x and 2.9x within RCR and RBS excluding RCR, UK was 56%.
The reductions in the higher LTV bands occurred respectively.
Performing loans include general corporate loans, mainly in the RCR book originated by Ulster Bank and CIB, typically unsecured, to CRE companies including real estate reflecting reductions through repayments, asset sales and write-offs.
investment trusts, and major UK house builders, in addition to facilities supported by guarantees.
The credit quality of these exposures was consistent with that of the performing portfolio overall.
Non-performing loans are subject to standard provisioning policies.
2 Data at 31 December 2014 includes CRE lending from Private Banking in CPB of 1.3 billion that was excluded from 2013 and 2012 data.
Corporate risk elements in lending and potential problem loans excluding CRE 2014 2013 2012 Loans Provisions Loans Provisions Loans Provisions m m m m m m Secured 5,082 3,109 7,686 4,347 9,936 4,704 Unsecured 1,953 1,365 2,496 1,685 1,894 1,170 Oil and gas The price of natural gas is determined regionally.
US natural gas prices RBS has 10.7 billion of credit risk assets CRA to the oil and gas have been relatively stable compared with the recent price of crude oil.
Including committed but undrawn facilities, the exposure to the The price of natural gas is not highly correlated to oil prices.
Exposures to this sector continue to be closely managed through the The price of crude oil is subject to global demand and supply factors and sector concentration framework and through ongoing customer and subtherefore determined globally.
It has fallen by more than 50% since June sector reviews including stress testing.
Risk appetite to the overall oil and 2014.
This steep decline has been driven by excess supply fears gas sector was reduced during 2014.
Further action is ongoing to mitigate resulting from a combination of factors.
These include the growth in US exposure where possible.
shale production and OPEC maintaining current production levels, as well as weaker demand in Europe and slower growth in China.
unaudited 255 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk continued The table below provides a breakdown of oil and gas sector exposure on both a CRA basis and total exposure including committed but undrawn exposure and contingent obligations basis by business segment.
billion, predominantly in relation to oil 0.7 billion, metals 0.2 billion and coal 0.1 billion.
The committed lending exposure included legal commitments to syndicated bank facilities, with tenors up to five years.
These committed CIB oil and gas facilities are for general corporate purposes including funding of operating Sub-sector and geography needs and capital expenditures.
These facilities are available as long as The tables below provide a breakdown of CIBs oil and gas sector counterparties remain compliant with the terms of the credit agreement.
exposure - which represents 84% of RBSs exposure to this sector Contingent obligations relate to guarantees, letters of credit and including committed but undrawn exposure - split by sub-sector and suretyships provided to customers.
The analysis is based on RBSs sector concentration framework.
RBS had no high-yield bond underwriting positions as at 31 December 2014: it had a simple sub investment grade loan underwriting of $86 million in the Americas which, subsequent to year end, had been syndicated.
Western Europe North Asia Latin UK excl.
UK America Pacific America CEEMA 1 Total 2014 m m m m m m m Producers incl.
unaudited 256 Business review Capital and risk management The sub-sector within which a customer operates is a primary The other principal components of RBSs exposure to producers are consideration for assessing the credit risk of a customer.
Current areas of Integrated Oil Companies IOC and National Oil Companies NOC.
IOC focus are towards customers involved in exploration and production and NOC are less vulnerable to the oil price decline due to scale, principally in producers E&P and oilfield service providers OFS.
E&P diversification and in the case of NOC, explicit support from governments.
customers represent approximately 18% of CIBs exposure to the oil and Asset quality gas sector and OFS customers represent 15%.
The table below provides a breakdown of the asset quality of CIBs oil and gas sector portfolios.
E&P is most immediately exposed to the oil price decline and E&P companies are the primary customers for the service providers and are experiencing an adverse impact on their financial performance from a reduced level of contracts and lower contract rates as well as pressure to re-price existing services.
2014 Asset quality - AQ band m % AQ1 3,948 20 AQ2 1,999 10 AQ3 3,455 17 AQ4 7,521 37 AQ5 2,035 10 AQ6 1,025 5 AQ7 293 1 Other 2 20,278 100 At the year end 83%, of the portfolio exposure was investment grade Amounts owed by RBS to a counterparty are netted against amounts the AQ1-AQ4.
same counterparty owes it, in accordance with relevant regulatory and internal policies.
However, generally, this is only done if a netting and The impact of continuing low oil prices on the credit quality of the portfolio collateral agreement is in place as well as a legal opinion to the effect is subject to ongoing review, including stress testing.
RBS is in regular that the agreement is enforceable in the relevant jurisdictions.
contact with customers to understand the impacts on them of a sustained low oil price.
This activity is backed up by a suite of early warning Collateral may consist of either cash or securities.
In the case of indicators used to identify customers who may be experiencing financial derivatives, collateral generally takes the form of cash.
In the case of difficulty.
securities financing transactions, collateral usually takes the form of debt and, to a much lesser extent, equity securities at the outset.
However, if At the year end, the proportion of RBSs total oil and gas portfolio, the value of collateral falls relative to that of the obligation, RBS may excluding RCR, designated as Watchlist Red performing customers who require additional collateral in the form of cash variation margin.
The show signs of declining creditworthiness and so require active vast majority of agreements are subject to daily collateral calls with management was 0.4%, of which 0.02% was managed by Restructuring.
collateral valued using RBSs internal valuation methodologies.
Counterparty credit risk Industry standard documentation, such as master repurchase RBS mitigates counterparty credit risk arising from both derivatives and agreements and credit support annexes accompanied by legal opinion, is repurchase agreements through the use of netting, collateral and market used for financial collateral taken as part of trading activities.
RBS limits counterparty credit exposures by setting limits which take into account the potential adverse movement of an exposure after adjusting for the impact of netting and collateral where applicable.
2014 2013 2012 Mitigation of counterparty credit risk bn bn bn Reverse repurchase agreements 64.7 76.5 104.8 Securities received as collateral 1,2 64.7 76.4 104.7 Derivative assets gross exposure 354.0 288.0 441.9 Counterparty netting 295.3 241.3 374.9 Cash collateral held 2 33.3 24.4 34.3 Securities received as collateral 2 7.0 6.0 5.6 Notes: 1 In accordance with normal market practice, at 31 December 2014 60.2 billion 2013 - 63.7 billion: 2012 - 100.7 billion had been resold or re-pledged as collateral for RBS's own transactions.
unaudited 257 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Additionally, in the UK and Ireland support is provided to customers with Personal credit risk management unsecured loans who establish a repayment plan with RBS through a Personal credit risk management focuses on RBSs personal customers debt advice agency or a self-help tool.
Such breathing space suspends in UK PBB, Ulster Bank and CFG as well as personal lending activities in collections activity for a 30-day period to allow time for the repayment Private Banking.
Arrears continue to accrue for customer loans granted breathing space.
Risk appetite RBS uses a product and asset class framework to control credit risk for If collections strategies are unsuccessful the relationship is transferred to its personal businesses.
The framework sets limits that measure and the recoveries team.
For further details on recoveries, refer to following control, for each relevant franchise or reportable segment, the quality of page.
both existing and new business.
The actual performance of each portfolio is tracked relative to these limits and action taken where necessary.
Forbearance These limits apply to a range of credit risk related measures including Definition expected loss of the portfolio, the expected loss in a given stress Forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the contractual scenario, projected credit default rates and the LTV of personal mortgage terms of a loan in response to a customer's financial difficulties.
granted either permanently or temporarily, following an assessment of the customer's circumstances.
Risk assessment Personal lending entails making a large number of small-value loans.
To Identification ensure that these lending decisions are made consistently, RBS analyses Customers who contact RBS directly because of financial difficulties, or credit information, including the historical debt servicing behaviour of who are already in payment arrears, may be granted forbearance.
In the customers with respect to both RBS and their other lenders.
RBS then course of assisting customers, more than one forbearance treatment may sets its lending rules accordingly, developing different rules for different be granted.
The process is then largely automated, with customers receiving a credit score that reflects a comparison of their credit profile Types of personal forbearance with the rule set.
However, for relatively high-value, complex personal Forbearance is granted principally to customers with mortgages and less loans, including some residential mortgage lending, specialist credit frequently to customers with unsecured loans.
managers make the final lending decisions.
Mortgage portfolios Risk mitigation Forbearance options include, but are not limited: RBS takes collateral in the form of residential property to mitigate the credit risk arising from mortgages and home equity lending.
RBS values Payment concessions - A temporary reduction in, or elimination of, residential property during the loan underwriting process by either the periodic usually monthly loan repayment is agreed with the appraising properties individually or valuing them collectively using customer.
At the end of the concessionary period, forborne principal statistically valid models.
RBS updates residential property values and accrued interest outstanding is scheduled for repayment over quarterly using the relevant residential property index, namely the Halifax an agreed period.
Ulster Bank and CFG also offer payment Quarterly Regional House Price Index in the UK, the Case-Shiller Home concessions in the form of discounted interest rates that involve the Price Index in the US, the Central Statistics Office Residential Property forgiveness of some interest.
Price Index in the ROI, and the Nationwide House Price Index in Northern Ireland.
For automobile lending in the US, new vehicles are valued at Capitalisation of arrears - The customer repays the arrears over the cost and used vehicles at the average trade-in value.
remaining term of the mortgage and returns to an up-to-date position.
Problem debt management Collections Term extensions - The maturity date of the loan is extended.
Collections functions in each of RBSs personal businesses provide support to customers who cannot meet their obligations to RBS.
Such Interest only conversions - The loan converts from principal and customers may miss a payment on their loan, borrow more than their interest repayment to interest only repayment on a permanent or, in agreed limit, or ask for help.
Dedicated support teams are also in place to Ulster Bank only, temporary basis.
identify and help customers who have not yet missed a payment but may be facing financial difficulty.
The collections function may use a range of tools to initiate contact with such customers, establish the cause of their financial difficulty and support them where possible.
In the process, they may consider granting the customer forbearance.
258 Business review Capital and risk management Unsecured portfolios Provisions for all non-performing personal loans are collectively Types of forbearance offered in the unsecured portfolios vary by assessed.
The loans are grouped by asset type.
Characteristics such as reportable segment.
LTVs, arrears status and default vintage are also considered when assessing recoverable amount and calculating the related provision Monitoring of forbearance requirement.
Ulster Bank personal non-performing loans in the Republic Forborne loans may be either performing or impaired and are subject to of Ireland form a separate risk pool where specific LGDs are allocated the same impairment triggers as the rest of the portfolio refer to using observed performance of these loans.
A loan is deemed impaired if the borrower has failed forbearance personal loans in the UK 10% of portfolio do not form a to make repayments of principal, payments of interest or both for 90 days separate risk pool, the LGD models used to calculate the collective or more, or in the case of forborne loans, the borrower has been granted impairment provision are affected by forbearance agreements.
a payment concession such as interest forgiveness.
In CFG, personal loans subject to forbearance are assessed individually, The granting of forbearance does not generally change the delinquency taking into account the value of any collateral, for impairment loss status of the loan affected.
An exception is a loan for which RBS has throughout their lives until repaid or fully written off.
If there is no agreed to capitalise arrears.
Capitalisation of principal and interest in collateral the impairment amount considers the excess of the loans arrears brings the loan up to date.
If it remains up to date for six months carrying amount over the present value of expected future cash flows.
and is deemed likely to continue to do so, it is transferred to the Any confirmed losses are charged off immediately.
In Ulster Bank, if a customer makes payments that reduce loan arrears below 90 days, the loan is transferred to the Recoveries performing book.
In addition, a small portfolio of loans past due 90 days Once a loan has been identified as impaired it is managed by recoveries is managed by PBBs collections function.
Loans in this portfolio may teams in the relevant businesses.
They seek to reduce RBSs loss by also be transferred to the performing book if the customer makes maximising cash recovery while treating customers fairly.
Where an payments that reduce arrears below 90 days.
In CFG, all forborne loans acceptable repayment arrangement cannot be agreed with the customer are included in the non-performing book regardless of whether or not litigation may be considered.
In the UK and Northern Ireland, no RBS has agreed to capitalise interest past due for 90 days or more.
repossession procedures are initiated until at least six months following the emergence of arrears in the Republic of Ireland, regulations prohibit Mortgages granted forbearance are reviewed regularly to ensure that taking legal action for an extended period.
Additionally, certain customers are meeting the agreed terms.
Key metrics have been forbearance options are made available to customers managed by the developed to record the proportion of loans that fail to meet the agreed recoveries function.
terms over time, as well as the proportion of loans that return to performing with no arrears.
Personal forbearance loans can be modified Impairments more than once.
Impairments in the personal portfolios decreased compared with 2013.
Ulster Bank was a significant driver of this decrease as a result of the Impairments for forbearance better economic environment and higher asset prices, which led to the Performing loans in UK PBB and Ulster Bank are subject to a latent loss release of credit impairments during the year.
Outside of Ulster Bank, provision but form a separate risk pool for 24 months in UK PBB and for impairments in the UK portfolio decreased which also saw provision the period of forbearance in Ulster Bank.
The higher of the observed releases owing to rising asset prices and strong recoveries.
The level of default rates, or PD, is used in UK PBB in the latent provisioning new impairments in the UK portfolio decreased by 26% compared to calculations for these loans to ensure that appropriate provision is held.
In Ulster Bank, the PD model used in latent provision calculations is calibrated separately for forborne loans, using information on the historic performance of loans subject to similar arrangements.
Furthermore, for these portfolios the latent provision incorporates extended emergence periods.
Once such loans are no longer separately identified, the use of account level PDs, refreshed monthly in the latent provision methodology, captures the underlying credit risk without a material time lag.
There is no reassessment of the PD at the time forbearance is granted but the loan is subject to the latent provisioning methodology described above.
2 There are other less material categories of personal lending not listed.
Overview of impairments and REIL 2014 2013 Private Private UK PBB Ulster Bank Banking CFG UK PBB Ulster Bank Banking CFG Loan impairment charge as a % of gross customer loans and advances Mortgages 1.0% 0.1% 0.2% 1.2% 0.5% Other lending 2.0% 2.9% 0.1% 0.8% 1.8% 2.2% 0.6% 1.0% Loan impairment provisions m Mortgages 217 1,413 27 146 259 1,726 33 123 Other lending 1,515 104 35 49 1,671 187 50 33 Risk elements in lending m Mortgages 1,218 3,362 95 949 1,702 3,235 116 761 Other lending 1,520 110 80 195 1,863 193 80 148 unaudited 260 Business review Capital and risk management UK PBB Mortgages Overview Risk mitigation The majority of the UK PBB personal portfolio consists of mortgages.
The table below shows LTVs for the UK PBB residential mortgage Total gross personal lending of 115.6 billion comprised 64% of RBSs portfolio split between performing AQ1-AQ9 and non-performing gross personal lending of 179.8 billion.
103.2 billion related to AQ10, with the average LTV calculated on a weighted-value basis.
mortgage lending and 12.3 billion to other lending loans, credit cards Loan balances are shown as at the end of the year whereas property and overdrafts.
values are calculated using property index movements since the last formal valuation.
2 Where no indexed LTV is held.
3 Average LTV weighted by value is calculated using the LTV on each individual mortgage and applying a weighting based on the value of each mortgage.
Key points During 2014 buy-to-let balances increased by 2.6 billion 28.2% in The UK personal mortgage portfolio increased by 4% to 103.2 support of UK PBBs growth strategy with new business subject to billion, of which 91.6 billion 2013 - 90.3 billion was ownerrental cover and loan-to-value risk appetite requirements.
occupied and 11.6 billion 2013 - 9.0 billion buy-to-let.
Approximately 63% of buy-to-let mortgages were on interest only lending terms with a bullet repayment, 34% repayable by regular capital and interest repayments and the remaining 3% a Based on the Halifax Price Index at September 2014, the portfolio combination of interest only and capital and interest.
Buy-to-let average indexed LTV by volume was 50.4% 2013 - 54.1% and lending includes lending to customers who were originally owner 57.3% by weighted value of debt outstanding 2013 - 62.0%.
The occupiers who subsequently, with the agreement of RBS, let out the ratio of total outstanding balances to total indexed property property to a third party, this represents 26.5% of buy-to-let valuations was 41.5% 2013 - 45.1%.
Fixed interest rate products of varying time durations accounted for The portfolio average indexed LTV improved from 62.0% to 57.3%.
approximately 56%, with 3% a combination of fixed and variable Within owner-occupied, the average LTV by weighted value rates and the remainder variable rate.
Approximately 19% of ownerimproved from 61.6% to 57.0% and within buy-to-let from 66.0% to occupied mortgages were on interest only terms with a bullet 59.6%.
repayment and 7% were on a combination of interest only and capital and interest.
261 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Gross new mortgage lending of 19.7 billion 2013 - 14.4 billion The arrears rate more than three payments in arrears, excluding had an average LTV by weighted value of 70.5%, which was higher repossessions and shortfalls after property sale, fell from 1.3% to than 2013 66.6%, reflecting growth in the market and RBSs strong 1.0%.
The number of repossessions was also lower 1,129 support for the Help To Buy scheme.
Within this: owner-occupier compared with 1,532 in 2013.
The arrears rate for buy-to-let lending was 16.6 billion 2013 - 13.2 billion and had an average mortgages was 0.6% 2013 - 0.9%.
Buy-to-let lending was 3.1 billion 2013 - 1.3 billion with an average LTV by There was an overall release of impairment provision of 26 million.
This compares to a charge of 31 million in 2013 and reflects improvements in underlying asset quality, including house price All new mortgage business is subject to a comprehensive increases.
assessment which includes: i an affordability test: ii credit scoring: iii a maximum loan-to-value of 90% 75% on buy-to-let, with the exception of government-backed schemes, for example Help to Buy and New Buy, where lending of up to 95% is provided: and iv a range of policy rules that restrict the availability of credit to riskier borrowers.
Arrears status and provisions The mortgage arrears information for accounts in forbearance and related provision are shown in the tables below.
2 Until June 2014, forbearance in UK PBB included all changes to the contractual payment terms, including those where the customer was up-to-date on payments and there was no obvious evidence of financial difficulty.
From July 2014, only customers exhibiting signs of financial stress are reported in forbearance disclosures.
3 Includes the current stock position of forbearance deals agreed since early 2008 for UK PBB.
The incidence of the main types of personal forbearance on the balance sheet are analysed below.
2014 2013 2012 m m m Interest only conversions - temporary and permanent 1,632 1,784 1,220 Term extensions - capital repayment and interest only 2,308 2,478 2,271 Payment concessions 228 241 215 Capitalisation of arrears 876 907 932 Other 223 366 452 Total 1 5,267 5,776 5,090 Note: 1 As an individual case can include more than one type of arrangement, the analysis above exceeds the total value of cases subject to forbearance.
262 Business review Capital and risk management The table below shows forbearance agreed during the year analysed between performing and non-performing.
2014 2013 2012 m m m Performing forbearance 785 1,332 1,809 Non-performing forbearance 148 186 184 Total forbearance 1,2 933 1,518 1,993 Notes: 1 An individual case can include more than one type of arrangement.
2 Includes all arrangements agreed during the year new customers and renewals including those deals that have expired at the year end.
Balances are as at the year end.
Key points The majority 91% of UK PBB forbearance is permanent in nature At 31 December 2014, forbearance balances where the forbearance term extensions, capitalisation of arrears, historic conversions to treatment was provided in the last 24 months amounted to 1.2 interest only.
Temporary forbearance comprises payment billion, representing 1.2% of total mortgage stock.
concessions such as reduced or deferred payments with such arrangements typically agreed for a period of three to six months.
The flow of new forbearance was 367 million in the second half of 2014.
This compared to 748 million in the first half 2014, which The most frequently granted forbearance types were term included changes in contractual terms for both financially stressed extensions 44% of forbearance loans at 31 December 2014, and non-financially stressed customers.
The underlying flow of new interest only conversions 31% and capitalisations of arrears 17%.
forbearance continued on a downward trend and, on a like-for-like basis, was 18% lower in 2014 compared to 2013.
Conversions to interest only have only been permitted on a very exceptional basis since the fourth quarter of 2012 and have not Since January 2008, 4.7% of total mortgage assets 4.9 billion been permitted for customers in financial difficulty since 2009. have been subject to a forbearance arrangement with stock levels decreasing by 10.5% since the end of 2013.
The year-on-year Approximately 85% of forbearance loans 2013 - 85% were up to reduction partly reflects the change in definition to report only date with payments compared with approximately 98% of assets not financially stressed customers from July 2014 onwards.
On a likesubject to forbearance activity.
The impairment provision cover on for-like basis underlying stock was down by 5.3%.
forbearance loans remained significantly higher than that on assets not subject to forbearance as a result of a bespoke provisioning methodology.
Interest only UK PBB stopped offering interest only terms for owner-occupier mortgages from 1 December 2012.
This policy is reviewed periodically.
Interest only repayment remains an option for buy-to-let mortgages.
Exposure to interest only reduced by 5% during 2014.
2014 2013 Mortgages Mortgages m m Variable rate 15,165 18,400 Fixed rate 9,122 7,039 Interest only loans 24,287 25,439 Mixed repayment 1 6,820 7,665 Total 31,107 33,104 Note: 1 Mortgages with partial interest only and partial capital repayments.
unaudited 263 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk continued The tables below show interest only mortgage portfolios excluding mixed repayment mortgages split by type and by contractual year of maturity.
2 Includes 1.6 billion 2013 - 1.8 billion of repayment mortgages that have been granted interest only concessions forbearance.
The table below shows the arrears status of the personal mortgage portfolio by mortgage type.
2014 2013 Interest only Interest only Bullet principal Bullet principal repayment Other Total repayment Other Total m m m m m m Arrears status Current 23,445 77,056 100,501 24,395 71,629 96,024 1 to 90 days in arrears 514 1,214 1,727 612 1,390 2,002 90 days in arrears 328 678 1,007 432 880 1,312 Total 24,287 78,948 103,235 25,439 73,899 99,338 Key points UK PBB personal recognises impairment provisions in respect of UK PBBs interest only mortgages require full principal repayment interest-only mortgages that are due to mature within five years.
The also known as a bullet payment at the time of maturity.
Typically impairment calculation is based on historical analysis coupled with such loans have remaining terms of between 10 and 20 years.
data obtained from a sample of customers who were asked about Customers are reminded of the need to have an adequate how they intended to repay their borrowing at the end of term.
The repayment vehicle in place during the mortgage term.
impairment provision held recognises that a proportion of customers may not be able to fulfil their contractual obligation to repay the debt.
Of the 24.3 billion interest only mortgages, 17.0 billion 70.0% The analysis is updated as new trends and data become available.
were residential owner occupied mortgages 2013 - 19.9 billion and 7.3 billion 30.0% related to buy-to-let lending 2013 - 5.6 Personal lending billion.
The UK PBB personal lending portfolio comprised credit cards, unsecured loans and overdrafts, and totalled 12.3 billion at 31 Of the bullet loans that matured in the six months to 30 June 2014, December 2014 2013 - 13.8 billion.
Credit card balances fell by 14.1 % 60.3% had been fully repaid by 31 December 2014.
The unpaid reflecting RBSs withdrawal from the 0% interest rate balance transfer balance totalled 58.8 million, of which 94.4% continued to meet market.
Unsecured loans fell by 6.3% and overdrafts fell by 10.3%.
agreed payment arrangements including balances with a term extension agreed on either a capital and interest or interest only The impairment charge on unsecured lending was 241 million for the basis.
Of the 58.8 million unpaid balance, 84.1% of the loans had year, down 17.6% on 2013.
The reduction reflects continued strong an indexed LTV of 70% or less with 2.6% above 90%.
underlying credit quality together with fortuitous recoveries from aged defaulted debt.
Customers may be offered an extension to the term of an interest only mortgage or a conversion of an interest only mortgage to one Forbearance levels are low and comprise reduced or deferred payments.
featuring repayment of both capital and interest, subject to Arrangements for the repayment of overdraft excesses or loan arrears affordability and characteristics such as the customers' income and can be agreed dependent on affordability.
Where repayment ultimate repayment vehicle.
These term extensions are considered arrangements are not affordable debt consolidation loans can be forbearance and are subject to a bespoke provision methodology provided to customers in collections.
100 million of balances 0.83% of resulting in a higher provision rate.
the total unsecured balances were subject to forbearance at the 2014 year end.
unaudited 264 Business review Capital and risk management Ulster Bank Mortgages Overview Risk mitigation The majority 97% of the Ulster Bank personal portfolio related to The table below shows LTVs for the Ulster Bank residential mortgage mortgage lending.
Total gross lending of 18.1 billion comprised 10.1% of portfolio split between performing AQ1-AQ9 and non-performing RBSs gross lending of 179.8 billion.
17.5 billion related to mortgage AQ10, with the average LTV calculated on a weighted value basis.
Loan lending and 0.6 billion to other lending loans and overdrafts.
balances are shown as at the end of the year whereas property values are calculated using property index movements since the last formal valuation.
2 Average LTV weighted by value is calculated using the LTV on each individual mortgage and applying a weighting based on the value of each mortgage.
The average LTV of new business for owner occupier mortgages Key points was 75%, compared to 69% for buy-to-let.
Of Ulster Banks portfolio of 17.5 billion, 86% was in the Republic of Ireland and 14% in Northern Ireland.
At constant exchange rates, Indexed loan to value, excluding 2014 new business, was 93% as at the portfolio decreased 2.4% during the year as a result of 31 December 2014. amortisation.
The assets included 2.1 billion 12% of residential buy-to-let loans.
Repossessions increased to 497 in 2014 from 262 in 2013.
The interest rate product mix was approximately 64% on tracker rate Ulster Bank provisioning methodology used a point-in-time provision products, 23% on variable rate products and 13% on fixed rate.
rate based on the latest available house price index prepared by the Central Statistics Office.
This is used to create an indexed valuation Interest only represented 7% of the total portfolio.
at property level, which also takes into account costs of realisation and a discount for forced sales, and is one of the primary factors Ulster Bank stopped offering interest only loans as a standard used in the determination of the likely size of the loss upon mortgage offering for new lending in the Republic of Ireland in 2010 crystallisation.
Loss likelihood rates are also determined and and in Northern Ireland in 2012. amongst other considerations assess whether an active forbearance arrangement is in place.
The provision rate is then a The average individual LTV on new originations was 75% in 2014, combination of these measures and is updated as required 2013 - 73% : the volume of new business increased from 438 depending on the movement of the drivers applied as part of the million in 2013 to 618 million in 2014.
The maximum LTV available methodology.
to Ulster Bank customers was 90%.
REIL increased from 3.2 billion to 3.4 billion primarily reflecting Based on updated house price indices as at October 2014, the higher forbearance arrangements.
Provision coverage was lower at portfolio average indexed LTV improved from 108% to 92% during 41% 2013 - 53% reflecting an increase in collateral values.
2014, reflecting positive house price index trends over the last 12 months.
In particular, the Republic of Ireland house price index increased by 16% during 2014, with the Irish market being led by the Dublin area, where the index increased by 22% during the year.
The Republic of Ireland house price index is 38% below its peak, which was in September 2007.
265 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Arrears status and provisions The mortgage arrears information for accounts in forbearance and related provision are shown in the tables below.
2 Forbearance in Ulster Bank includes all changes to the contractual payment terms, including those where the customer is up-to-date on payments and there is no obvious evidence of financial difficulty.
3 Includes the current stock position of forbearance deals agreed since early 2009 for Ulster Bank.
2014 2013 2012 m m m Interest only conversions - temporary and permanent 346 512 924 Term extensions - capital repayment and interest only 501 325 183 Payment concessions 1 2,305 1,567 762 Capitalisation of arrears 1,364 494 119 Total 2 4,516 2,898 1,988 Notes: 1 Includes 77 million of loans 2013 - 365 million: 2012 - 10 million where an interest rate discount has been agreed resulting in a reduction of contractual cash flows through forgiveness of interest.
2 As an individual case can include more than one type of arrangement, the analysis above exceeds the total value of cases subject to forbearance.
The table below shows forbearance agreed during the year split between performing and non-performing.
2014 2013 2012 m m m Performing forbearance 2,177 2,223 2,111 Non-performing forbearance 1,053 1,213 1,009 Total forbearance 1,2 3,230 3,436 3,120 Notes: 1 An individual case can include more than one type of arrangement.
266 Business review Capital and risk management Key points At 31 December 2014, 22.2% of total mortgage assets 3.9 billion The remaining forbearance loans were short-term arrangements were subject to a forbearance arrangement, an increase of 40% accounting for 39% of the forbearance portfolio.
This reflects Ulster Banks proactive strategies to contact customers in financial difficulty to Temporary interest only arrangements decreased during 2014 to 8% offer assistance.
of forbearance loans at 31 December 2014 2013 - 18%.
This reflects Ulster Banks strategy to transition customers in financial Although the forbearance stock increased by 40% during the year, difficulty to long-term arrangements.
the number of customers approaching Ulster Bank for assistance for the first time has declined through 2014.
This can be attributed to a Payment concessions represented the remaining 31%, comprising: greater number of mortgages being moved to longer-term arrangements where payments amortised the outstanding balance arrangements, and therefore not exiting forbearance.
26% : a diminishing portfolio of arrangements that negatively amortised 4% : and payment holidays 1%.
The majority of loans subject to forbearance arrangements 75% were less than 90 days in arrears.
The impairment provision cover on forbearance loans remained significantly higher than that on assets not subject to forbearance.
The mix of forbearance treatments in Ulster Bank changed, with an increase in longer-term solutions.
A total of 61% of forbearance loans were subject to a long-term arrangement at 31 December 2014 2013 - 41%.
These long-term arrangements were comprised of: i Capitalisations which represented 30% of forbearance stock at 31 December 2014 2013 - 17% : ii Term extensions - 11% unchanged from 2013 : and iii economic concessions - 20% 2013 - 13%.
Economic concessions are offered for periods up to eight years and incorporate different levels of repayment based on customer circumstances.
Interest only Ulster Bank stopped offering interest only loans as a standard mortgage offering for new lending in the Republic of Ireland in 2010 and in Northern Ireland in 2012.
Interest only mortgages are now granted only to high net worth customers or customers in need of forbearance.
2014 2013 Mortgages Mortgages m m Variable rate 1,238 2,031 Fixed rate 25 38 Interest only loans 1,263 2,069 Mixed repayment 1 204 277 Total 1,467 2,346 Note: 1 Mortgages with partial interest only and partial capital repayments.
unaudited 267 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk continued The tables below show interest only mortgage portfolios excluding mixed repayment mortgages by type and by contractual year of maturity.
2 Includes 0.3 billion 2013 - 0.5 billion of repayment mortgages that have been granted interest only concessions forbearance.
3 Maturity date relates to the expiry of the interest only period.
2014 2013 Interest only Interest only Bullet principal Conversion to Bullet principal Conversion to repayment amortising Other Total repayment amortising Other Total m m m m m m m m Arrears status Current 561 474 12,756 13,791 565 1,053 12,642 14,260 1 to 90 days in arrears 25 54 1,058 1,137 35 152 1,352 1,539 90 days in arrears 70 79 2,429 2,578 78 186 2,971 3,235 Total 656 607 16,243 17,506 678 1,391 16,965 19,034 Key points Of the 1.3 billion interest only mortgages 0.9 billion related to Ulster Banks interest only mortgages require full principal owner-occupier mortgages and 0.3 billion related to buy-to-let repayment bullet at the time of maturity: or payment of both capital mortgages.
and interest from the end of the interest only period, typically seven years, so that customers meet their contractual repayment Personal lending obligations.
For bullet customers, contact strategies are in place to The Ulster Bank personal lending portfolio comprised credit cards, remind them of the need to repay principal at the end of the unsecured loans and overdrafts, and totalled 591 million at 31 mortgage term.
The impairment charge on unsecured lending was 19.9 million for the Typically interest only mortgages have a remaining term of 16 years.
Of the bullet mortgages that matured in the six months to 30 June Unsecured retail forbearance was 4m in 2014 out of 591m unsecured 2014 3.3 million, 37% had been fully repaid by 31 December loans.
2014 leaving residual balances of 2.1 million, 81% of which were meeting the terms of a revised repayment schedule.
Of the amortising loans that matured in the six months to 30 June 2014 232.6 million, 66% were either fully repaid or meeting the terms of a revised repayment schedule.
unaudited 268 Business review Capital and risk management Private Banking Mortgages Overview Risk mitigation The majority of the Private Banking personal lending portfolio relates to The table below shows LTVs for the Private Banking residential mortgage mortgage lending.
Total gross lending of 14.1 billion comprised 7.8% of portfolio split between performing AQ1-AQ9 and non-performing RBSs gross personal lending of 179.8 billion.
8.9 billion related to AQ10, with the average LTV calculated on a weighted value basis.
Loan mortgage lending and 5.2 billion to other lending loans, overdrafts and balances are shown as at the end of the year whereas property values current accounts.
are calculated using property index movements since the last formal valuation.
Forbearance Forbearance is offered to private banking customers on a limited basis and represents less than 1.1% of the total mortgage portfolio.
The main types of forbearance offered are in the form of term extensions.
No missed payments 1-3 months in arrears 3 months in arrears Total Forborne Balance Provision Balance Balance Provision Balance Provision balances 1 m m m m m m m % 2014 91 1 3 6 1 100 2 1.1 2013 112 3 6 9 127 3 1.5 2012 38 7 45 0.5 Note: 1 As a percentage of mortgage loans.
2014 2013 2012 m m m Interest only conversions - temporary and permanent 1 6 Term extensions - capital repayment and interest only 46 29 27 Payment concessions 18 12 9 Other 35 86 3 Total 1 100 127 45 Note: 1 As an individual case can include more than one type of arrangement, the analysis above exceeds the total value of cases subject to forbearance.
269 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk continued The table below shows forbearance agreed during the year split between performing and non-performing.
2014 2013 2012 m m m Performing forbearance 89 41 18 Non-performing forbearance 22 22 2 Total forbearance 1,2 111 63 20 Notes: 1 An individual case can include more than one type of arrangement.
Interest only Private Banking portfolios offer interest only mortgages to high net worth customers.
The table below shows interest only mortgages by interest rate and repayment type.
2014 2013 Mortgages Other loans Mortgages Other loans m m m m Variable rate 4,810 1,779 5,062 1,276 Fixed rate 1,547 99 906 71 Interest only loans 6,357 1,878 5,968 1,347 Mixed repayment 1 11 375 6 Total 6,357 1,889 6,343 1,353 Note: 1 Mortgages with partial interest only and partial capital repayments.
The tables below show interest only mortgage portfolios excluding mixed repayment mortgages by type and by contractual year of maturity.
The table below shows the arrears status of Private Bankings personal mortgage portfolio by mortgage type.
2014 2013 Interest only Interest only Bullet principal Bullet principal Conversion to repayment Other Total repayment amortising Other Total m m m m m m m Arrears status Current 6,311 2,497 8,808 5,839 16 2,694 8,549 1 to 90 days in arrears 13 19 32 33 17 50 90 days in arrears 33 16 49 80 22 102 Total 6,357 2,532 8,889 5,952 16 2,733 8,701 unaudited 270 Business review Capital and risk management CFG Mortgages Overview Risk mitigation The majority of the CFG personal portfolio relates to mortgage lending.
The table below shows LTVs for CFG, residential mortgages split Total gross lending of 32.0 billion comprised 17.8% of RBSs gross between performing AQ1-AQ9 and non-performing AQ10, with the personal lending of 179.8 billion.
21.1 billion related to mortgage average LTV calculated on a weighted value basis.
Loan balances are lending and 10.9 billion to other lending loans and overdrafts and auto shown as at the end of the year whereas property values are calculated loans.
using property index movements since the last formal valuation.
3 Where no indexed LTV is held.
4 Average LTV weighted by value is calculated using the LTV on each individual mortgage and applying a weighting based on the value of each mortgage.
The SBO portfolio, which was closed to new purchases in the third Key points quarter of 2007, decreased from 1.4 billion to 1.3 billion.
The mortgage portfolio consisted of 7.8 billion of residential mortgages 1% in second lien position and 13.3 billion of home The overall mortgage portfolio credit characteristics are stable with a equity loans and lines of credit HELOC - first and second liens.
weighted average LTV of 67% at 31 December 2014.
The weighted Home equity consisted of 45% in first lien position.
A Serviced By average LTV of the portfolio, excluding SBO, was 65%.
Others SBO portfolio, which is predominantly 95% second lien, is included in the home equity book.
CFG continued to focus on its footprint states of New England, MidAtlantic and Mid-West regions.
At 31 December 2014, the portfolio consisted of 17.1 billion 82% of the total portfolio within footprint.
271 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk continued Arrears status and provisions The mortgage arrears information for accounts in forbearance and related provision are shown in the tables below.
No missed payments 1-3 months in arrears 3 months in arrears Total Forborne Balance Provision Balance Provision Balance Provision Balance Provision balances 1 m m m m m m m m % 2014 310 25 34 4 65 409 29 1.9 2013 287 26 33 3 53 373 29 1.9 2012 179 25 160 10 339 35 1.6 Note: 1 As a percentage of mortgage loans.
The incidence of the main types of personal forbearance on the balance sheet are shown below.
2014 2013 2012 m m m Term extensions - capital repayment and interest only 56 35 Payment concessions 1 254 246 339 Other 99 92 Total 2 409 373 339 Notes: 1 Includes 18 million of loans 2013 - 62 million where an interest rate discount has been agreed resulting in a reduction of contractual cash flows through forgiveness of interest.
2014 2013 2012 m m m Performing forbearance 88 Non-performing forbearance 76 101 71 Total forbearance 1,2 76 101 159 Notes: 1 An individual case can include more than one type of arrangement.
Key point CFG participates in the US-government mandated Home Affordable Modification Program, as well as its own proprietary programme.
Both feature a combination of term extensions, capitalisations of arrears, interest rate reductions and loan conversions from interest only to amortising.
These tend to be permanent changes to contractual terms.
In order to qualify for either of these programmes, customers must meet government-specified or internal criteria that provide evidence of financial difficulty and demonstrate a willingness to pay.
The 12-month default rate, on a value basis, for forbearance was 15% in 2014.
Interest only The table below shows the interest only mortgage and HELOC portfolios by interest rate and repayment type.
2014 2013 Mortgages Other loans Mortgages Other loans m m m m Variable rate 9,637 59 9,221 23 Fixed rate 292 34 51 40 Interest only loans 9,929 93 9,272 63 Mixed repayment 788 1,149 Total 10,717 93 10,421 63 unaudited 272 Business review Capital and risk management The table below shows the interest only mortgage and HELOC portfolios excluding mixed repayment mortgages by type and contractual year of maturity.
2 Maturity date relates to the expiry of the interest only period.
The table below shows the arrears status of personal mortgages and HELOC loans by type.
2014 2013 Interest only Interest only Bullet principal Conversion to Bullet principal Conversion to repayment amortising Other Total repayment amortising Other Total m m m m m m m m Arrears status Current 145 9,365 10,247 19,757 348 8,529 10,002 18,879 1 to 90 days in arrears 17 314 612 943 37 260 65 362 90 days in arrears 10 78 334 422 18 80 245 343 Total 172 9,757 11,193 21,122 403 8,869 10,312 19,584 Key points Personal lending CFG has a portfolio of interest only bullet repayment HELOC loans CFGs credit card portfolio is comprised of good quality consumer loans 0.2 billion at 31 December 2014 for which repayment of principal originated in-footprint through the branch network and totalled 952 is due at maturity, and an interest only portfolio that comprises loans million at 31 December 2014 2013 - 945 million.
The product portfolio that convert to amortising after an interest only period typically ten credit quality continued to improve with weighted average credit scores years.
The majority of the bullet loans are due to mature in 2015. for new originations throughout 2014 higher than the portfolio average.
Of the bullet repayment loans that matured in the six months to 30 The auto portfolio totalled 7.9 billion at 31 December 2014 of which 6.9 June 2014, 48.9% had been fully repaid by 31 December 2014.
The billion has been originated through dealer networks and 1.0 billion of unpaid balance totalled 103 million, 90.8% of which continued to purchased pools of prime auto loans.
CFG increased its exposure to auto meet agreed payment arrangements.
Of the amortising loans that loans during the year, within the risk appetite set as part of CFGs matured in the six months to 30 June 2014, 64.3% had been fully strategy.
The unpaid balance totalled 15 million, 83.2% of which continued to meet agreed payment For loans secured by vehicles and credit cards, CFG may offer temporary arrangements.
interest rate modifications, but no principal reductions.
Forbearance may also be offered to student loan customers consistent with the policy guidelines of the US Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
140 million 1.3% of the unsecured balances were subject to forbearance at 31 December 2014 includes auto and recreational vehicle marine portfolios and excludes small business loans as these are included as part of wholesale reporting.
unaudited 273 Business review Capital and risk management Balance sheet analysis 275 Financial assets 275 - Exposure summary and credit mitigation 277 - Sector concentration 279 - Asset quality 281 Debt securities 281 - Issuer and IFRS measurement classification 282 - Ratings 283 - Asset-backed securities 284 Equity shares 285 Derivatives 285 - Summary and uncollateralised exposure 287 - Settlement basis and central counterparties 287 - Credit derivatives 288 REIL, provisions and AFS reserves 288 - Loans and related credit metrics 288 - Segmental analysis 290 - Sector and geographical concentration 293 - REILs and impairments 297 - AFS reserves 297 - By issuer 297 - Gross unrealised losses 274 Business review Capital and risk management Balance sheet analysis Credit risk assets analysed on pages 237 to 241 are reported internally to senior risk management.
However, they exclude certain exposures, primarily securities and reverse repurchase agreements and take account of legal netting agreements, that provide a right of legal set-off but do not meet the criteria for offset in IFRS.
The tables that follow are therefore provided to supplement the credit risk assets analysis and other analysis to reconcile to the balance sheet.
All the disclosures in this section are audited.
Financial assets Exposure summary and credit mitigation The following table analyses financial assets exposures, both gross and net of offset arrangements as well as credit mitigation and enhancement.
2 The carrying value on the balance sheet represents the exposure to credit risk by class of financial instrument.
3 Balance sheet offset reflects the amounts by which RBSs credit risk is reduced through master netting and cash management pooling arrangements.
Derivative master netting agreements include cash pledged with counterparties in respect of net derivative liability positions and are included in lending.
4 Includes cash collateral pledged by counterparties based on daily mark-to-market movements of net derivative positions with the counterparty.
5 Securities collateral represent the fair value of securities received from counterparties, mainly relating to reverse repo transactions as part of netting arrangements.
6 Property valuations are capped at the loan value and reflect the application of haircuts in line with regulatory rules to indexed valuations.
Commercial collateral includes ships and plant and equipment collateral.
7 Credit enhancement comprises credit derivatives bought protection and guarantees and reflects notional amounts less fair value and notional amounts respectively.
275 Business review Capital and risk management Balance sheet analysis continued Gross IFRS Carrying Balance sheet Exposure exposure offset 1 value offset 2 post offset 2012 bn bn bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 79.3 79.3 79.3 Reverse repos 143.2 38.4 104.8 17.4 87.4 Lending 464.7 1.5 463.2 42.2 421.0 Debt securities 164.6 164.6 164.6 Equity shares 15.2 15.2 15.2 Derivatives 3 815.4 373.5 441.9 409.2 32.7 Settlement balances 8.1 2.4 5.7 1.8 3.9 Other financial assets 1.1 1.1 1.1 Total 1,691.6 415.8 1,275.8 470.6 805.2 Short positions 27.6 27.6 27.6 Net of short positions 1,664.0 415.8 1,248.2 470.6 777.6 Notes: 1 Relates to offset arrangements that comply with IFRS criteria and transactions cleared through and novated to central clearing houses, primarily London Clearing House and US Government Securities Clearing Corporation.
2 This reflects the amounts by which RBSs credit risk is reduced through master netting and cash management pooling arrangements.
3 Includes cash collateral required against derivative assets of 34.3 billion.
Key points The major components of net exposure are cash and balances at Financial assets after credit mitigation and enhancement fell by 35 central banks, unsecured commercial, corporate and bank loans, billion or 9% principally reflecting lower funded assets 35 billion debt securities and short-term settlement balances.
as both CIB and RCR implemented strategic balance sheet reductions through wind-down and disposals.
Of the 102 billion of debt securities, 25 billion are asset-backed but underlying collateral is not reflected above as RBS only has access to cash flows from the collateral.
276 Business review Capital and risk management Sector concentration The following tables analyse financial assets by industry sector.
In addition, RBS holds collateral in respect of individual loans and advances to banks and customers.
This collateral includes mortgages over property both personal and commercial : charges over business assets such as plant, inventories and trade debtors: and guarantees of lending from parties other than the borrower.
RBS obtains collateral in the form of securities in reverse repurchase agreements.
Cash and securities are received as collateral in respect of derivative transactions.
2 Includes loans made by consolidated conduits to asset owning companies.
For geographic concentrations refer to: Mortgage lending grew by 2.0 billion reflecting a 3.9 billion Lending: Loans and related credit metrics increase in UK PBB, partially offset by a 1.5 billion decrease in Debt securities: Issuer and IFRS measurement and Country risk Ulster Bank where repayments outstripped new lending.
CFG also Equity shares: and saw an increase reflecting portfolio acquisition as well as through Derivatives: Summary and uncollateralised exposures foreign currency movements Key points Property and construction exposure fell by 12.0 billion, 9.3 billion Overall exposure before impairment provision post offset fell by of which was in commercial real estate lending refer to Credit risk - 35.3 billion or 5% in 2014 to 671.2 billion.
This was in line with Key credit portfolios - Commercial real estate on page 251.
RBS's continued focus on reducing exposure concentrations, running down assets in RCR and winding down certain portfolios in There has been a significant increase in CFG lending across a CIB.
broad range of industry sectors reflecting in line with business strategy and risk appetite 278 Business review Capital and risk management Asset quality The asset quality analysis presented below is based on internal asset Indicative quality ratings which have ranges for the probability of default, as set out Asset quality band Probability of default range S&P rating below.
Customers are assigned credit grades, based on various credit AQ1 0% - 0.034% AAA to AA grading models that reflect the key drivers of default for the customer AQ2 0.034% - 0.048% AAtype.
All credit grades across RBS map to both an asset quality scale, AQ3 0.048% - 0.095% A to A used for external financial reporting, and a master grading scale for AQ4 0.095% - 0.381% Ato BBBwholesale exposures used for internal management reporting across AQ5 0.381% - 1.076% BB to BB portfolios.
Debt securities are analysed by external ratings and are AQ6 1.076% - 2.153% BBto B therefore excluded from the following table and are set out on pages 281 AQ7 2.153% - 6.089% B to B to 283.
AQ8 6.089% - 17.222% Bto CCC AQ9 17.222% - 100% CCC to C The table below details for illustrative purposes only, the relationship AQ10 100% D between internal asset quality AQ bands and external ratings published by S&P, for illustrative purposes only.
This relationship is established by The mapping to the S&P ratings is used by RBS as one of several observing S&Ps default study statistics, notably the one year default benchmarks for its wholesale portfolios, depending on customer type and rates for each S&P rating grade.
A degree of judgement is required to the purpose of the benchmark.
The mapping is based on all issuer types relate the probability of default PD ranges associated with the master rated by S&P.
It should therefore be considered illustrative and does not, grading scale to these default rates given that, for example, the S&P for instance, indicate that exposures reported against S&P ratings either published default rates do not increase uniformly by grade and the have been or would be assigned those ratings if assessed by S&P.
In historical default rate is nil for the highest rating categories.
addition, the relationship is not relevant for retail portfolios, smaller corporate exposures or specialist corporate segments given that S&P does not typically assign ratings to such issuers.
Key points The increase of 23 billion in AQ4 customer loans was primarily due The improving economic climate and credit conditions and disposals to the recalibration of UK residential mortgage models following strategy in RCR resulted in the proportion of investment-grade improvements in observed default rates and the implementation of AQ1-AQ4 increasing from 75% to 78%.
the large corporate PD model.
Derivatives increased by 66.0 billion, primarily in AQ2-AQ4 bands.
Changes to the residential mortgage model and large corporate PD model also resulted in increases of 6.6 billion and 15.1 billion in Reverse repos: AQ1 balances decreased by 6.6 billion reflecting AQ3 and AQ4 commitments.
reduced overall trading in line with balance sheet management strategies.
Also, changes to the large corporate grading models Past due loans decreased by 0.9 billion including 0.5 billion in resulted in migrations from higher to lower quality AQ bands: this Ulster Bank reflecting increased work with customers in arrears and contributed to the 7.2 billion increase in AQ3.
Past due loans comprise 1.6 billion 2013 - 2.2 billion of accruing past due 90 days or more loans Asset quality of customer lending in AQ1-AQ3 remained stable with included within risk elements in lending and 6.6 billion 2013 - 6.8 higher cash collateral against increased fair value of derivatives, billion of loans that are past due less than 90 days.
Of the total past partially offset by a reduction in traded loans in CIB asset-backed due loans, 4.8 billion 2013 - 5.2 billion relates to personal loans.
280 Business review Capital and risk management Debt securities Issuer and IFRS measurement classification The table below analyses debt securities by issuer and IFRS measurement classifications.
US central and local government includes US federal agencies.
The other financial institutions category includes US government sponsored agencies and securitisation entities, the latter principally relating to asset-backed securities ABS.
257 million of the 282 million was due reduction and capital management in CIB.
The increase in other to asset-backed securities, of which only 128 million related to government bonds reflected higher activity and timing of auctions.
those that had been in a loss position for more than a year primarily There was an increase in German, French and Austrian government reflecting risk reduction in RCR compared with 0.6 billion and 1.8 bonds, partially offset by reductions in Italian, Spanish and billion in 2013 and 2012.
The decrease in short positions reflects positions settled due to increased prices resulting from low yields due to economic volatility in the eurozone.
AFS - Treasury took advantage of improved market conditions to reduce legacy banks and other financial institutions positions: consequently it no longer has any mortgage-backed covered bonds 2013 - 4.6 billion.
Ratings The table below analyses debt securities by issuer and external ratings.
Ratings are based on the lowest of Standard and Poors, Moodys and Fitch.
Repayments made on the underlying mortgages are used to make payments to holders of the mortgage-backed securities MBS.
The risk of the MBS will vary primarily depending on the quality and geographic region in which the underlying mortgage assets are located and the credit enhancement of the securitisation structure.
Several tranches of notes are issued, each secured against the same portfolio of mortgages, but providing differing levels of seniority to match the risk appetite of investors.
The most junior or equity notes will suffer early capital and interest losses experienced by the referenced mortgage collateral, with each more senior note benefiting from the protection provided by the subordinated notes below.
Additional credit enhancements may be provided to the holder of senior MBS notes.
The main categories of mortgages that serve as collateral to RMBS held by RBS are set out below and described in the Glossary on pages 505 to 511.
The US market has more established definitions of differing underlying mortgage quality and these are used as the basis for RBS's RMBS categorisation.
2 Includes US agency and Dutch government guaranteed securities.
283 Business review Capital and risk management Balance sheet analysis continued Equity shares The table below analyses holdings of equity shares for eurozone countries and other countries with balances of more than 100 million by country, issuer and measurement classification.
The HFT positions in CIB, primarily in run-off and recovery businesses, are used mainly for economic hedging of debt issuances and equity derivatives.
The AFS portfolios include capital stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank a government sponsored entity, included in other financial institutions and the Federal Reserve Bank, which together amounted to 0.6 billion 2013 - 0.6 billion: 2012 - 0.7 billion that CFG are required to hold.
The remaining AFS balances are individually small holdings in unlisted companies, mainly acquired through debt for equity transactions in Restructuring.
3 HFT short positions of 211 million 2013 - 259 million: 2012 - 611 million included 15 million 2013 - 75 million: 2012 - 101 million relating to non-periphery eurozone countries.
284 Business review Capital and risk management Derivatives Summary and uncollateralised exposures The table below analyses derivatives by type of contract.
The master netting agreements and collateral shown below do not result in a net presentation on the balance sheet under IFRS.
Trades are margined daily hence carrying values were insignificant: assets - 8 million 2013 - 69 million: 2012 - 41 million and liabilities - 119 million 2013 - 299 million: 2012 - 255 million.
2 Interest rate notional includes 18,452 billion 2013 - 22,563 billion: 2012 - 15,864 billion in respect of contracts with central clearing counterparties to the extent related assets and liabilities are offset.
285 Business review Capital and risk management Balance sheet analysis continued Key points Uncollateralised derivatives predominantly comprise: Interest rate contracts: notional balances were 8.3 trillion lower due to increased participation in trade compression cycles in 2014.
The Corporates: predominantly large corporates with whom RBS fair value increased due to significant downward shifts in major may have netting arrangements in place, but operational yields following further rate cuts by the European Central Bank, capability does not support collateral posting.
Transactions European instability including Germany as well as concerns over include foreign exchange hedges and interest rate swaps.
This was partially offset by the impact of strengthening of sterling against the euro and participation in tear Banks: transactions with certain counterparties with whom RBS ups.
has netting arrangements but collateral is not posted on a daily basis: certain transactions with specific terms that may not fall Foreign exchange contracts: the increase in fair value is driven by within netting and collateral arrangements: derivative positions the strengthening of the US dollar against the Japanese yen as the in certain jurisdictions for example China which are either portfolio was materially positioned long US dollar and short uncollateralised or the collateral agreements are not deemed to Japanese yen.
Credit derivatives: notional and fair value decreased reflecting Other financial institutions: transactions with securitisation participation in trade compression cycles and reduction in the US structured purpose entities and funds where collateral posting is Agency business within CIB.
Tightening of credit spreads in Europe contingent on RBSs external rating.
and long dated spreads in the US also contributed to decrease in fair values.
Government: sovereigns and supranational entities with one way collateral agreements in their favour.
286 Business review Capital and risk management Settlement basis and central counterparties The table below analyses the derivative notional and fair value by trading and settlement method.
Credit derivative exposures relating to proprietary trading are minimal.
The table below analyses bought and sold protection.
2 Credit hedging in the banking book principally relates to portfolio management in RCR and Non-Core.
3 Credit valuation relating to monoline insurers and credit derivative product companies CDPCs were 47 million 2013 - 99 million: 2012 - 506 million.
287 Business review Capital and risk management Balance sheet analysis continued REIL, provisions and AFS reserves Risk elements in lending REIL comprises impaired loans and accruing loans past due 90 days or more as to principal or interest.
Impaired loans are all loans including loans subject to forbearance for which an impairment provision has been established: for collectively assessed loans, impairment loss provisions are not allocated to individual loans and the entire portfolio is included in impaired loans.
Accruing loans past due 90 days or more comprise loans past due 90 days where no impairment loss is expected.
Loans and related credit metrics Segmental analysis The tables below analyse gross loans and advances excluding reverse repos and the related credit metrics by reportable segment.
64% and now stands at 18.0 billion, a 7.2 billion reduction in the This reflected RWA focused reduction in trade finance 5.4 billion year.
Provision coverage of gross loans has declined steadily during being partially offset by derivative collateral increase, both in CIB, 2014 and is now 4.4% compared with 6.0% at the end of 2013, the as well as Ulster Banks increased cash deposits with Central Bank latter reflecting the creation of RCR.
The reduction in provision of Ireland ahead of new regulatory liquidity requirements.
reflected write-off of 5.3 billion 3.6 billion in RCR and impairment Overall customer loans fell by 5.0 billion to 412.8 billion reflecting releases of 3.5 billion 2.3 billion in RCR partially offset by new RCR disposal strategy being partly offset by increases in CFG and charges of 2.4 billion 1.0 billion in RCR and currency and other UK PBB.
There has been a significant increase in CFG lending across a Disposal of assets by RCR, primarily in the second half of the year, broad range of industry sectors, including residential mortgages, at higher than anticipated sale prices together with favourable auto loans and commercial loans, in line with business strategy and market conditions in Ireland and the UK resulted in impairment risk appetite.
Exchange rate movements also contributed to the releases.
Overall, there was a net loan impairment release of 1.2 increase.
billion, 1.3 billion in RCR for 2014.
UK PBBs mortgage book grew strongly by 3.9 billion to 103.2 Commercial real estate CRE gross lending reduced by 9.3 billion billion as advisor capacity increased refer to Credit Risk Key credit to 43.3 billion, related REIL is almost half of total RBS REIL and portfolios on page 261 for more details.
This was partially offset by has a provision coverage of 68%.
Of the total CRE REIL of 13.3 lower unsecured lending.
billion, 11.1 billion is in RCR.
Within the business segments: Property and construction lending fell by 11.4 billion, of which 9.3 RCR REIL decreased by 8.7 billion or 36% to 15.4 billion from billion related to commercial real estate lending.
Refer to Credit Risk 24.1 billion at 1 January 2014 primarily due to a mixture of asset Key loan portfolios on page 251 for more details.
Provision coverage of REIL and REIL as a proportion of loans were both around 70%.
REIL decreased by 11.2 billion to 28.2 billion, a 28% reduction in the year from 39.4 billion, across all segments except CFG.
REIL In Ulster Bank, REIL as a proportion of loans decreased to 19% as a proportion of gross loans improved to 6.8% from 9.4% in 2013 from 27% in 2013 and provision coverage of REIL reduced to 57% reflecting sales and repayments of 10.2 billion 6.9 billion in RCR, from 64% in 2013 mainly reflecting asset transfers to RCR on 1 write-offs of 5.3 billion 3.6 billion in RCR, transfers to performing January 2014 but also due to improved market conditions and book of 1.5 billion, partially off set by new impaired loans of 7.1 higher collateral values also contributed.
The execution of RCR strategy, resulted Commercial Banking REIL as a proportion of loans decreased to in a number of disposals of REIL in the year, primarily in the fourth 2.9% from 5.0% in 2013, and REIL decreased by 41% 1.8 billion quarter.
to 2.5 billion, with 0.6 billion of the reduction due to the creation of RCR.
REIL reductions in the year were mainly due to lower individual cases, albeit some increases were seen in the fourth quarter and reductions in collectively assessed due to improved credit conditions.
289 Business review Capital and risk management Balance sheet analysis continued Sector and geographical concentration The tables below analyse gross loans and advances to banks and customers excluding reverse repos and related credit metrics by sector and geography based on the location of lending office.
292 Business review Capital and risk management REILs and impairments Risk elements in lending The table below analyses REIL between UK and overseas, based on the location of the lending office.
REIL flow statement REIL are stated without giving effect to any security held that could reduce the eventual loss should it occur or to any provisions marked.
2 For details on impairment methodology refer to Credit risk on page 231 and Accounting policy 15 Impairment of financial assets on page 353.
Impairment provisions flow statement RBSs consumer portfolios, which consist of high volume, small value credits, have highly efficient largely automated processes for identifying problem credits and very short timescales, typically three months, before resolution or adoption of various recovery methods.
Corporate portfolios consist of higher value, lower volume credits, which tend to be structured to meet individual customer requirements.
Provisions are assessed on a case by case basis by experienced specialists with input from professional valuers and accountants.
RBS operates a transparent provisions governance framework, setting thresholds to trigger enhanced oversight and challenge.
The movement in loan impairment provisions by segment is shown in the table below.
2014 2013 2012 m m m Past due 1-29 days 4,834 4,765 5,599 Past due 30-59 days 1,055 1,260 1,117 Past due 60-89 days 667 822 1,177 Past due 90 days or more 1,640 2,221 2,641 8,196 9,068 10,534 Past due analysis by sector Personal 4,837 5,172 5,501 Property and construction 1,343 1,373 1,863 Financial institution 86 368 103 Other corporate 1,930 2,155 3,067 8,196 9,068 10,534 295 Business review Capital and risk management Balance sheet analysis continued Impairment charge analysis The table below analyses the impairment charge for loans and securities.
Citizens RBS Ulster Commercial Private Central Financial excluding UK PBB Bank Banking Banking CIB items Group RCR RCR Total 2014 m m m m m m m m m m Individually assessed 13 10 139 2 25 12 36 189 988 799 Collectively assessed 197 30 21 142 330 15 315 Latent loss 58 325 83 3 32 16 369 307 676 Loans to customers 268 365 77 5 7 12 194 150 1,310 1,160 Loans to banks 10 10 Securities 2 3 1 14 15 Charge release to income statement 268 365 77 5 9 12 197 151 1,306 1,155 RBS excluding 2013 Non-Core Non-Core Individually assessed 3 1,082 629 32 590 65 16 2,417 4,502 6,919 Collectively assessed 517 580 49 6 189 1,341 123 1,464 Latent loss 23 112 26 3 17 54 23 21 44 Loans to customers 497 1,774 652 29 613 65 151 3,781 4,646 8,427 Loans to banks 15 15 15 Securities 5 81 1 5 90 70 20 Charge to income statement 502 1,774 652 29 679 64 156 3,856 4,576 8,432 RBS excluding 2012 Non-Core Non-Core Individually assessed 8 457 514 42 196 1 15 1,233 1,936 3,169 Collectively assessed 767 787 47 46 237 1,884 312 2,196 Latent loss 35 120 18 4 47 169 145 72 73 Loans to customers 740 1,364 543 46 195 1 83 2,972 2,320 5,292 Loans to banks 23 23 23 Securities 2 12 39 8 61 97 36 Charge to income statement 740 1,364 545 46 230 40 91 3,056 2,223 5,279 296 Business review Capital and risk management AFS reserves By issuer Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs and are subsequently measured at fair value with changes in fair value reported in owners equity until disposal, at which stage the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
When there is objective evidence that an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, any decline in its fair value below original cost is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss.
The table below analyses available-for-sale debt securities and related reserves, gross of tax.
This was balanced by the requirement to Market risk is the risk of losses arising from fluctuations in interest rates, maintain RBSs current capital ratio sensitivity to foreign exchange rate credit spreads, foreign currency rates, equity prices, commodity prices movements within risk limits.
and other factors, such as market volatilities, that may lead to a reduction in earnings, economic value or both.
Sources of risk Traded market risk RBS is exposed to traded market risk through its trading activities and to The majority of traded market risk exposure arises in CIB and RCR.
non-traded market risk as a result of its banking activities.
In many respects, it manages its traded and non-traded market risk exposures The primary objective of RBSs trading activities is to provide a range of separately, as described in this section, largely in line with the regulatory financing, risk management and investment services to its customers - definitions of the trading and non-trading books.
including major corporations and financial institutions around the world.
From a market risk perspective, the trading activities are included within Key developments in 2014 the following markets: currencies: emerging markets: rates: asset-backed Traded market risk products: and traded credit.
RBSs traded market risk profile decreased significantly, with market risk limits being reduced across all businesses, in some instances by 50-60%.
RBS undertakes transactions in financial instruments including debt These reductions resulted from: securities, loans, deposits and equities, as well as securities financing The creation of RCR and consequent accelerated wind-down of and derivatives.
capital-intensive and potentially volatile exposures: and In relation to CIB: Some of these transactions involve trading or clearing financial the continuing run-down of non-strategic products and instruments on an exchange, including interest rate swaps, futures and exposures in the run-off and recovery business set up towards options.
Holders of these instruments provide margin on a daily basis the end of 2013: and with cash or other security at the exchange.
the decision to exit the US asset-backed product ABP trading business.
Other products are not transacted on an exchange.
Of these over-thecounter transactions, those with standard terms may be cleared through Technology and process improvements continued to be made to enhance central counterparties, while those that are more complex are settled the measurement and management of market risk exposures.
This directly with the counterparty and may give rise to counterparty credit covered key systems spanning areas such as market data and risk.
For more information on the management of counterparty credit risk, information technology architectures.
refer to the Credit risk section on page 231.
Risk measurement improvements also continued.
Notably, credit and Non-traded market risk funding valuation adjustments were included in the internal measure of The majority of RBSs non-traded market risk exposure arises from retail RBSs value-at-risk VaR refer to page 304 for more information.
and commercial banking activities in all franchises from assets and Previously, only associated hedges were included.
The change in scope liabilities that are not classified as held for trading.
reflects a more comprehensive economic view of the risk.
The management of non-traded market risk is largely organised in line Non-traded market risk with the following three key categories: non-traded interest rate risk: nonRBS continued to manage its non-traded market risk exposures within traded foreign exchange risk: and non-traded equity risk.
risk limits throughout the year.
Although the restructure of customer facing businesses in 2014 did not affect underlying non-traded market Interest rate risk risk exposures, the planned divestment of CFG is expected Non-traded interest rate risk NTIRR arises from the provision to to reduce structural interest rate and foreign exchange risk exposures.
customers of a range of banking products that have differing interest rate However, at the year end RBS retained a majority stake in CFG and fully characteristics.
Therefore, when aggregated, these products form consolidated the position.
portfolios of assets and liabilities with varying degrees of sensitivity to changes in market interest rates.
Mismatches in these characteristics can Longer-term interest rates remained at historically low levels during give rise to volatility in net interest income as interest rates rise and fall.
RBS maintained its structural hedge of invested equity and rateinsensitive customer deposit portfolios.
The aim of the hedge is NTIRR comprises four primary risk factors: repricing risk, yield curve risk, to stabilise interest earnings.
During the year, the duration profile of the basis risk and optionality risk.
For more information, refer to page 316. hedge did not change materially but action was taken to match the hedges currency profile more closely to underlying balance sheet exposures.
unaudited 299 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued Equity risk Foreign exchange risk Non-traded equity risk is the potential variation in income and reserves Non-traded foreign exchange risk exposures arise from two main arising from changes in the values of non-trading book equity positions.
sources: Equity exposures may arise through strategic acquisitions, venture capital investments and certain restructuring arrangements.
Structural foreign exchange risk - arising from the capital deployed in foreign subsidiaries, branches and associates and related Pension risk currency funding where it differs from sterling: and Pension-related activities also give rise to market risk.
Refer to pages 331 and 332 for more information on risk related to pensions.
Transactional foreign exchange risk - arising from customer transactions and profits and losses that are in a currency other than the functional currency of the transacting operation.
300 Business review Capital and risk management Linkage to balance sheet The table below analyses RBSs balance sheet by trading and non-trading business.
Trading Non-trading Total business 1 business 2 Non-trading business 2014 bn bn bn primary risk factor Assets Cash and balances at central banks 75.5 75.5 Interest rate, foreign exchange Net loans and advances to banks 24.8 11.2 13.6 Interest rate Net loans and advances to customers 394.8 23.2 371.6 Interest rate Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing 64.7 61.1 3.6 Interest rate Debt securities 101.9 49.3 52.6 Interest rate Equity shares 6.2 4.9 1.3 Equity Derivatives 354.0 350.1 3.9 Interest rate, foreign exchange Settlement balances 4.7 4.7 Other assets 24.2 24.2 Interest rate Total assets 1,050.8 504.5 546.3 Liabilities Deposits by banks 40.9 25.5 15.4 Interest rate Customer deposits 414.9 14.2 400.7 Interest rate Repurchase agreements and stock lending 64.6 60.0 4.6 Interest rate Debt securities in issue 51.9 12.4 39.5 Interest rate Settlement balances 4.5 4.5 Short positions 23.0 23.0 Derivatives 350.0 346.9 3.1 Interest rate, foreign exchange Subordinated liabilities 23.1 23.1 Interest rate Other liabilities 17.7 17.7 Interest rate, credit spreads Total liabilities 990.6 486.5 504.1 2 013 Assets Cash and balances at central banks 82.7 82.7 Interest rate, foreign exchange Net loans and advances to banks 27.6 9.3 18.3 Interest rate Net loans and advances to customers 390.8 19.4 371.4 Interest rate Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing 76.4 75.7 0.7 Interest rate Debt securities 113.6 56.7 56.9 Interest rate Equity shares 8.8 7.2 1.6 Equity Derivatives 288.0 284.9 3.1 Interest rate, foreign exchange Settlement balances 5.6 5.6 Other assets 34.4 34.4 Interest rate Total assets 1,027.9 458.8 569.1 Liabilities Deposits by banks 35.3 19.2 16.1 Interest rate Customer deposits 414.4 9.7 404.7 Interest rate Repurchase agreements and stock lending 85.1 73.6 11.5 Interest rate Debt securities in issue 67.8 19.7 48.1 Interest rate Settlement balances 5.3 5.3 Short positions 28.0 28.0 Derivatives 285.5 283.4 2.1 Interest rate, foreign exchange Subordinated liabilities 24.0 24.0 Interest rate Other liabilities 23.3 23.3 Interest rate, credit spreads Total liabilities 968.7 438.9 529.8 Notes: 1 Trading businesses are entities that primarily have exposures that are classified as trading book under regulatory rules.
For these exposures, the main methods used by RBS to measure market risk are detailed under Traded market risk measurement on page 304.
2 Non-trading businesses are entities that primarily have exposures that are not classified as trading book.
For these exposures, with the exception of pension-related activities, the main measurement methods are sensitivity analysis of net interest income, internal non-traded VaR and fair value calculations.
For more information refer to pages 316 to 322. unaudited 301 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued Trading balance sheet and VaR linkage The table below shows the trading business balance sheet split by trading portfolios within CIB and the associated trading VaR for the period ended 31 December 2014.
Standalone internal Assets Liabilities 99% 1-day VaR Portfolio Description of business bn bn m Principal market risk exposure Rates Delivers interest rate services through research-based 414.0 409.0 23.7 Interest rates insight to corporates, central banks, financial institutions and hedge funds.
Currencies Provides currency services to corporate, institutional 33.4 33.1 2.4 Foreign exchange and and retail clients globally covering FX, emerging and interest rates short-term markets.
Asset-backed Structures and distributes mortgage-backed securities, 9.1 3.2 4.9 Interest rates and credit products asset-backed securities and commercial mortgagespreads.
backed securities, covering both agency and nonagency segments of the market, from executing flow business to creating complex structured derivatives.
Credit Provides liquidity and capital to corporates and 12.8 8.7 2.6 Credit spreads operates across investment-grade, high-yield and distressed credit.
Offers a full-service credit-trading platform covering derivatives, bonds, bank loans and trade claims.
Run-off & Recovery Responsible for active divestment of all products 20.2 20.3 4.2 Equities, interest rates and identified for exit from RBS, through a combination of credit spreads.
restructuring, asset sales or, where possible, business sales.
Centre Primarily relates to the Counterparty Exposure 10.4 Credit spreads, interest rates Management desk which manages counterparty risk and foreign exchange, exposures arising from over-the-counter derivative contracts, primarily credit risk and funding risk.
VaR diversification 26.9 Total CIB 489.5 474.3 21.3 Total RCR RCR is responsible for the accelerated rundown of 14.3 11.1 3.0 Equities, interest rates and assets that are capital intensive or have volatile credit spreads.
Notes: 1 The VaR amounts presented above represent the risk associated with external and internal transactions within each portfolio.
VaR diversification represents the degree of correlation between portfolios within RBS.
The diversification factor is the sum of the VaR on individual businesses less the total portfolio VaR.
2 Assets and liabilities presented above represent external transactions for each portfolio.
3 VaR in Centre relates primarily to market risks arising from credit valuation adjustment CVA, funding valuation adjustment FVA and the related hedges which are booked and managed centrally.
The corresponding assets and liabilities are reflected in the underlying portfolio amounts where the CVA and FVA risks arise.
302 Business review Capital and risk management Risk governance RBSs qualitative market risk appetite is set out in policy statements.
The Market Risk function is responsible for identifying, measuring, These define the governance, responsibilities, control framework and monitoring and controlling the market risk arising from both trading and requirements for the identification, measurement, analysis, management non-trading activities.
and reporting of market risk arising from trading and non-trading activities.
These policies are also cascaded, as appropriate, to the legal For general information on risk governance, refer to the Risk governance entities, franchises and businesses to ensure there is a consistent control section on page 176. framework throughout.
More specific information on the governance, management and The quantitative market risk appetite is expressed in terms of limits for measurement of traded and non-traded market risk is provided in each of the trading and non-trading activities.
These limits, which establish a set the dedicated sections below.
of comprehensive boundaries within which business activities are conducted and monitored based on business plans, are proposed by the Traded market risk Director of Market Risk.
Controls and assurance The market risk control and assurance framework has three key Once RBS-level limits are approved by the Executive Risk Forum ERF, components: market risk policy: assurance approach policy: and the Director of Market Risk may cascade the limits further down the independent assurance.
For each trading business, a document known as a dealing authority compiles details of all applicable limits and trading The Group Market Risk Policy Standard is part of the Group Policy restrictions.
It sets out the rules that RBSs businesses must follow to ensure that market risks are identified, measured and effectively The limit framework at RBS-level comprises VaR, stressed value-at-risk managed.
SVaR and sensitivity and stress limits for more details on VaR and SVaR, refer to pages 304 to 309.
The limit framework at the lower levels The assurance approach policy comprises various elements, including also comprises additional metrics that are specific to the market risk the Risk and Control Assurance Framework process.
This process exposures within its scope.
These additional metrics aim to control ensures that, on an ongoing basis, specifically designed controls are in various risk dimensions such as product type, exposure size, aged place for the risks that RBS faces to ensure that its exposure does not inventory, currency and tenor.
The adequacy and effectiveness of these controls are tested according to their rating, at least annually.
The results of this The limits are reviewed to reflect changes in risk appetite, business testing are shared regularly at the Market Risk Governance and Control plans, portfolio composition and the market and economic environments.
Limit breaches at RBS-level require escalation by the Director of Market Market Risk Assurance forms part of Risk Assurance.
This independent Risk, as appropriate, to the ERF.
Limit breaches at the lower levels second line of defence function provides assurance on the robustness of require escalation by the head of the relevant market risk segment to the the market risk framework within RBS, via centralised analysis of the Director of Market Risk, as appropriate.
control framework, complemented by the application of expert judgement through qualitative reviews.
These findings are escalated to senior Risk assessment management and plans to address any shortcomings are recorded and Identification and assessment of traded market risk is achieved through tracked in the operational risk system.
Market Risk Assurance activities gathering, analysing, monitoring and reporting market risk information by are also reported directly and independently to the Group Audit business line or at a consolidated level.
system developments and techniques such as stress testing are also used to enhance the effectiveness of the identification and assessment of For information on valuation controls, independent price verification and all material market risks.
model validation, refer to page 315.
This is complemented by the New Product Risk Assessment process, Risk appetite which requires market risk teams to assess and quantify the market risk Market risk appetite is the level of market risk that RBS accepts when associated with all proposed new products.
pursuing its business objectives, taking into account stressed scenarios.
A comprehensive structure and controls are in place aimed at ensuring Risk monitoring that this appetite is not exceeded.
Traded market risk exposures are monitored against limits and analysed daily by market risk reporting and control functions.
A daily report that summarises market risk exposures against the limits set by the ERF is sent to the Chief Risk Officer and market risk managers across the unaudited franchises.
303 Business review Capital and risk management Traded market risk continued Value-at-risk The market risk functions also prepare daily risk reports that detail VaR is a statistical estimate of the potential change in the market value of exposures against a more granular set of limits and triggers.
a portfolio and, thus, the impact on the income statement over a specified time horizon at a given confidence level.
Limit reporting is supplemented with regulatory capital and stress testing information as well as ad hoc reporting.
For internal risk management purposes, VaR assumes a time horizon of one trading day and a confidence level of 99%.
The VaR model is based A market risk update is also included in the RBS Risk Management on a historical simulation, utilising data from the previous 500 days on an Monthly Report provided to the Executive Committee, the Board Risk equally weighted basis.
The update focuses on risk positions relative to risk appetite: it also covers the key risks and trends, together with a The internal traded VaR model captures all trading book positions discussion of relevant issues and market topics.
including those products approved by the regulator.
As noted earlier, from February 2014, credit and funding valuation adjustments were included in The reporting and updates facilitate frequent reviews and discussions of the internal measure of VaR.
For an explanation of the distinction traded market risk exposures and related issues between the market risk between internal VaR and regulatory VaR, refer to page 311. functions, senior management and the front office.
The internal VaR model captures the impact on the income statement of Risk control the following risk factors: To ensure approved limits are not breached and that RBS remains within its risk appetite, triggers at RBS and lower levels have been set such that Interest rate risk, which arises from the impact of changes in interest if exposures exceed a specified level, action plans are developed by the rates and volatilities on cash instruments and derivatives.
This front office, Market Risk and Finance.
includes interest rate tenor basis risk and cross-currency basis risk.
Risk measurement Credit spread risk, which arises from the impact of changes in the RBS uses a comprehensive and complementary set of methodologies credit spreads of sovereign bonds, corporate bonds, securitised and techniques to measure traded market risk that collectively ensure a products and credit derivatives.
complete approach to the measurement of material market risks.
Currency risk, which arises from the impact of changes in currency The main measurement methods are VaR rates and volatilities.
Risks that are not adequately captured by these model methodologies Equity risk, which arises from the impact of changes in equity prices, are captured by the Risks Not in VaR volatilities and dividend yields.
RNIV framework to ensure that RBS is adequately capitalised for market risk.
In Commodity risk, which arises from the impact of changes in addition, stress testing is used to identify commodity prices and volatilities.
any vulnerabilities and potential losses in excess of VaR and SVaR.
The factors noted above are sufficient to define RBSs overall market risk exposures.
Other types of risk which are components of the abovementioned factors, are also monitored by individual businesses to identify These methods have been designed to capture correlation effects and and address any material concentrations.
allow RBS to form an aggregated view of its traded market risk across Examples of such risk types include: risk types, markets and business lines while also taking into account the characteristics of each risk type.
Basis risk, which is the risk that imperfect correlation between two instruments in a hedging strategy creates the potential for excess gains or losses, thus adding risk to the position: Prepayment risk, which is the risk associated with early unscheduled return of principal on a fixed rate security: and Inflation risk, which is the risk of a decrease in the value of instruments as a result of changes in inflation rates and associated volatilities.
304 Business review Capital and risk management VaR limitations When RBS uses ten-day risk factor changes in the calculation of the Historical VaR and RBSs implementation of this risk measurement regulatory VaR, the ten-day periods overlap, which can introduce an methodology have a number of known limitations, as summarised autocorrelation bias in the 99% confidence level VaR statistic.
The below, and VaR should be interpreted in light of these.
RBSs analysis performed has shown the bias to be small and acceptable approach is to supplement VaR with other risk metrics that address for a ten-day period.
these limitations to ensure appropriate coverage of all material The VaR of trading positions is computed at the close of business.
Positions may change substantially during the course of the trading Historical simulation VaR may not provide the best estimate of future day and so intra-day price volatility and trading may not be captured market movements.
It can only provide a forecast of portfolio losses by the model.
based on events that occurred in the past.
The RBS model uses the The data used in the model are collected from global sources.
For previous two years of data: this period represents a balance some sources, local end-of-day, rather than London end-of-day, between model responsiveness to recent shocks and risk factor data data may be used, resulting in a timing mismatch.
mismatch is more material for 1-day return periods than for 10-day The use of a 99% confidence level VaR statistic does not provide periods which are used for capitalisation purposes as the overlaps information about losses beyond this level, usually referred to as are inherently smaller across shorter periods.
These risks are more appropriately assessed using whether or not to use local end-of-day timing, the internal model measures such as Stressed VaR and stress testing.
review committee balances the principle of aligning the treatment of positions and their associated hedges against the goal of using The use of a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the profit London end-of-day timing consistently.
and loss implications of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day.
This may not fully reflect market risk at times Risk factors relevant to a specific portfolio may be omitted, due to a of severe illiquidity in the market when a one-day period may be lack of reliable data, or the use of proxy risk factors, for example.
insufficient to liquidate or hedge positions fully.
Thus, the regulatory RBS has developed the RNIV framework to address these issues.
VaR that is used for modelled market risk capital uses a ten-day time horizon.
1-Day 99% traded internal VaR 2014. unaudited 305 Business review Capital and risk management Traded market risk continued 1-day 99% traded internal VaR The table below analyses internal VaR for RBSs trading portfolios, segregated by type of market risk exposure, and split between CIB and RCR or NonCore.
The extent of the diversification benefit depends on the correlation between the assets and risk factors in the portfolio at a particular time.
The diversification factor is the sum of the VaR on individual risk types less the total portfolio VaR.
Key points Total traded VaR decreased significantly in 2014 compared with The declines in interest rate and credit spread VaR were also 2013, on both a period-end and average basis, for the following two affected by specific factors: key reasons: Interest rate VaR declined in Q1 2014 due to reduced risk the inclusion of CVA and FVA trades in the internal VaR appetite for flow market-making in the Rates business in CIB.
measure in February 2014, which primarily affected Q1 2014.
Prior to this change, VaR was higher as only the associated Credit spread VaR declined in H2 2014, because the volatile hedges, which had a risk-additive impact on overall trading credit spread series rolled out of the 500-day window for VaR.
book exposures, were captured in the internal risk management framework.
Total VaR was notably volatile in the second half of the year, largely as a result of heightened geopolitical risks given the Ukraine Russia crisis and Middle East tensions and the developments in the the decision to exit the US ABP trading business and the eurozone periphery.
unwinding of equity positions in Run-off & Recovery RoR within CIB in line with the exit strategy, which largely affected The decrease in the average and period end RCR VaR reflects the the last three quarters of the year.
inclusion of CVA and FVA trades in the calculation of internal VaR and the accelerated wind-down of capital-intensive and potentially volatile exposures.
306 Business review Capital and risk management VaR validation There are two types of profit and loss P&L used in back-testing A dedicated model-testing team in Market Risk works with the risk comparisons: Clean P&L and Hypothetical Hypo P&L.
managers to: Test the accuracy of the valuation methods used in the VaR model The Clean P&L for a particular business day is the firms actual P&L for on appropriately chosen test portfolios and trades: that day in respect of the trading activities within the scope of the firms regulatory VaR model, including any intraday activities, adjusted by Apply in-house models to perform advanced internal back-testing to stripping out: complement the regulatory back-testing: Fees and commissions: Identify risks not adequately captured in VaR, and ensure that such risks are addressed via the RNIV framework refer to page 309 : Brokerage: Identify any model weaknesses or scope limitations and their Additions to, and releases from, reserves that are not directly related impact: and to market risk: and Identify and give early warning of any market or portfolio weakness Any Day 1 P&L exceeding an amount of 500,000 per transaction.
The Hypo P&L reflects the firms Clean P&L excluding any intra-day In addition, independent VaR model reviews are carried out by Model activities.
A portfolio is said to produce a back-testing exception when the Clean or As well as being an important market risk measurement and control tool, Hypo P&L exceeds the VaR level on a given day.
Such an event may be the VaR model is also used to determine a significant component of the caused by a large market movement or may highlight issues such as market risk capital requirement refer to page 311 for more information on missing risk factors or inappropriate time series.
Any such issues calculation of capital requirements.
Therefore, it is subject to not only identified are analysed and addressed through taking appropriate ongoing internal review and validation but also regulator-prescribed backremediation or development action.
RBS monitors both Clean and Hypo testing.
VaR back-testing Regulatory back-testing is performed and reported on a daily basis for The main approach employed to assess the ongoing model performance legal entities and major business portfolios.
Franchise-level market risk is back-testing, which counts the number of days when a loss exceeds teams also perform back-testing at the lower levels as part of the internal the corresponding daily VaR estimate, measured at a 99% confidence ongoing VaR model validation.
The back-testing described above primarily applies to CIB and RCR models, which are approved by the regulators.
However, where appropriate, back-testing is also performed for other portfolios that are not subject to regulatory approval.
The graph below presents 1-day 99% regulatory VaR vs. Hypo P&L for RBS plc, RBS's largest legal entity by market risk RWAs and positions.
unaudited 307 Business review Capital and risk management Traded market risk continued The table below shows regulatory back-testing exceptions for a period of 250 days for 1-day 99% traded regulatory VaR vs. Clean and Hypo P&L for the legal entities approved by the PRA and fide Nederlandsche Bank.
Back-testing exceptions Model Description Clean Hypo status The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Green National Westminster Bank Plc 3 3 Green RBS Securities Inc RBSSI 1 1 Green RBS Financial Products Inc Green The Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. 1 Green Key points The exceptions at the NatWest level were driven by: the re-marking Statistically RBS would expect to see back-testing exceptions 1% of in August of certain inflation products following independent price the time over a one-year period.
From a capital requirement verification: losses on euro and sterling positions as foreign perspective, the PRA categorises a firms VaR model as green, exchange spot rates moved significantly in September: and a oneamber or red.
A green model status is consistent with a satisfactory day delay in booking by a trader in September.
VaR model and is achieved for models that have four or fewer exceptions in a continuous 12 month period.
RBSs VaR model has The exception at the RBS N. V. level in December was primarily maintained a green status for its regulated legal entities and hence driven by the unwinding of a Brazilian fund.
has considered that no action is required to rectify or adapt its VaR models.
The exception at the RBSSI level resulted from losses in the US Credit business relating to the mining and chemical sectors and from losses on inflation securities.
The table below shows internal back-testing exceptions for a period of 250 days for 1-day 99% traded internal VaR vs. Clean and Hypo P&L for major CIB businesses.
Back-testing exceptions Description Actual Hypo Credit 1 1 Currencies 2 CIB ROR 1 2 Note: 1 The business classification for the purpose of back-testing has been revised to bring it in line with the new RBS business hierarchy effective 3 February 2014.
Back-testing exceptions for these businesses are also counted from this date.
Key points The exceptions in the Currencies business occurred in the normal As noted above, statistically RBS would expect to see back-testing course of business and were mainly due to market moves adversely exceptions 1% of the time over a one-year period.
At RBS plc level, affecting spot and volatility foreign exchange positions in the there was one exception during 2014, confirming that the model was business.
The exceptions in the Credit business mainly occurred due to CDS The top-level businesses presented in the table above are subject to spread tightening adversely affecting the overall short position.
quarterly governance by the PRA.
For some of these businesses, exceptions were noted during 2014 and analysis conducted as CIB RoR experienced one actual and two hypothetical exceptions explained below.
All exceptions were due to fair value differences on the execution of a risk migration trade.
unaudited 308 Business review Capital and risk management Stressed VaR SVaR RBS adopts two approaches for the quantification of RNIVs: As with VaR, the SVaR technique produces estimates of the potential change in the market value of a portfolio, over a specified time horizon, at A standalone VaR approach.
Under this approach, two values are a given confidence level.
SVaR is a VaR-based measure using historical calculated: i the VaR RNIV: and ii the SVaR RNIV.
data from a one-year period of stressed market conditions.
Under this approach, an assessment of The risk system simulates 99% VaR on the current portfolio for each 260- ten-day extreme, but plausible, market moves is used in day period from 1 January 2005 to the current VaR date, moving forward combination with position sensitivities to give a stress-type loss one day at a time.
The SVaR is the worst VaR outcome of the simulated number - the stressed RNIV value.
For each legal entity covered by the PRA VaR approval refer to This is in contrast with VaR, which is based on a rolling 500-day historical Regulatory VaR, RNIV amounts are aggregated to obtain the following data set.
For the purposes of both internal risk management and three measures: i Total VaR RNIV: ii Total SVaR RNIV: and iii Total regulatory SVaR calculation, a time horizon of ten trading days is stressed RNIV.
In each of these categories, potential diversification assumed with a confidence level of 99%.
benefits between RNIVs are ignored.
Trading SVaR The top ten RNIVs represent approximately two thirds of the total RNIV 2014 2013 2012 capital requirement.
m m m Total RBS 194 309 396 RNIVs are broadly classified as follows: CIB 189 298 372 RCR 23 n a n a Proxied sensitivities or risk factors: to cover instruments for which Non-Core n a 51 69 market data is not available.
Key point Higher-order sensitivity terms: to account for the fact that the VaR The period end traded SVaR declined in 2014 compared with 2013. model is based on a P&L approximation function rather than full This was consistent with the decrease in VaR and was primarily repricing of deals.
driven by the decision to exit the US ABP trading business.
Interpolation and re-bucketing inaccuracy: to cover residual errors Risks not in VaR RNIVs resulting from the pre-processing of risk factors into a standard set The RNIV approach is used for market risks that fall within the scope of across tenors.
VaR and SVaR but that are insufficiently captured by the model methodology, for example due to a lack of suitable historical data.
The Data selection bias: to cover the possibility of suboptimal data RNIV framework has been developed to quantify these market risks and sources being selected for risk factors.
to ensure that RBS holds adequate capital.
Static pricing parameters: to cover the possibility that suboptimal The need for an RNIV calculation is typically identified in one of the assumed values are used for certain unobserved parameters following two circumstances: i as part of the New Product Risk in pricing models.
Assessment process, when a risk manager assesses that the associated risk is not adequately captured by the VaR model: or ii as a result of a Missing basis risks: to cover cases where data sources are not recommendation made by Model Risk or the model validation team when detailed enough to differentiate the risks of long and short pairs of reviewing the VaR model.
The RNIV calculations provide a capital estimate of risks not captured in The most material of these are proxied sensitivities, followed by higherthe VaR model and are regularly reported and discussed with senior order sensitivity terms.
The methodology used in the material RNIV calculations is internally reviewed by Model Risk.
Where RNIVs that are related specifically to instruments that have level 3 appropriate, risk managers set sensitivity limits to control specific risk valuation hierarchy assumptions refer to pages 388 and 389 are mainly factors giving rise to the RNIV.
RNIV calculations form an integral part of included in the following categories: proxied sensitivities or risk factors: RBSs ongoing model and data improvement efforts to capture all market higher-order sensitivity terms: and static pricing parameters.
risks in scope for model approval in VaR and SVaR.
Since the introduction of the RNIV framework, progress has been made in transitioning RNIVs into the VaR model.
unaudited 309 Business review Capital and risk management Traded market risk continued The table below analyses capital requirements related to RNIVs.
2014 2013 m m Risks not in VaR 57 30 Risks not in SVaR 79 39 Stressed RNIV 183 149 319 218 Key point Vulnerability-based stress testing begins with the analysis of a portfolio The RNIV charge increased by 41% year on year.
This was primarily and expresses the key vulnerabilities of the portfolio in terms of plausible, due to the removal of the materiality threshold in Q1, and hence all so-called vulnerability scenarios under which the portfolio would suffer RNIVs are now subject to capital requirements, following an material losses.
These scenarios can be historical, forward-looking, agreement with the PRA.
This initial increase was partially offset by macroeconomic or hypothetical.
Vulnerability-based stress testing is used risk reductions across the portfolio in H2.
for internal management information and is not subject to limits.
However, relevant scenarios are reported to senior management.
Stress testing RBS undertakes daily market risk stress testing to identify vulnerabilities Economic capital and potential losses in excess of or not captured in VaR.
The calculated A market risk economic capital framework was developed in 2013 and stresses measure the impact of changes in risk factors on the fair values was introduced in internal reporting in 2014. of the trading and available-for-sale portfolios.
The associated models calculate the market and default risk in the RBS conducts historical, macroeconomic and vulnerability-based stress trading book and are aligned with other models that are used for limit testing.
setting and market risk management.
The results are annualised to be consistent with the other economic capital models to permit consolidation Scenario-based sensitivity analysis measures the sensitivity of the of all risk types as part of the RBS-wide economic capital programme.
current portfolio to defined movements in market risk factors.
These risk factor movements and the resulting valuation changes are typically Other risk measures smaller than those considered in other stress tests.
In addition to SVaR and stress tests, RBS uses a range of other risk measures to complement VaR.
These measures often represent local Historical stress testing is a measure that is used for internal small-amplitude risk calculations which provide valuable additional management.
Using a similar technical framework to VaR, the current controls, often at individual desk or business unit level.
They mainly portfolio is stressed using historical data since 1 January 2005.
The include, but are not limited to, sensitivity and position-based risk methodology simulates the impact of the worst loss that would be measures.
incurred by historical risk factor movements over the period, assuming a holding period specific to the risk factors and the businesses.
At present, Sensitivity measures refer to the changes in deal or portfolio value that a holding period of 60 business days is applied for credit risk factors result from small changes in market parameters that are subject to the including in the case of asset-backed securities ABS and for the market risk limit framework.
available-for-sale AFS portfolios that are held by CIB Treasury and generally a period of 10 business days for other risk factors.
RBS reviews Position-based measures are also used and are stated in terms that the holding periods annually.
relate directly to the business activity they are applied to.
Examples of such measures include the aggregate open foreign exchange position or Historical stress tests form part of the market risk limit framework and the long, short and net amount of security or currency held and aged their results are reported daily to senior management.
Macroeconomic stress tests are carried out periodically as part of the firm-wide, cross-risk capital planning process.
The scenario narratives are translated into risk factor shocks using historical events and insights by economists, risk managers and the front office.
Market risk stress results are combined with those for other risks into the capital plan that is presented to the Board.
The cross-risk capital planning process is conducted twice a year, in April May and October November, with a planning horizon of five years.
The scenario narratives cover both regulatory scenarios such as the PRA Anchor and the Federal Reserve Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review and macroeconomic scenarios identified by the firm such as a euro crisis and a China hard landing.
unaudited 310 Business review Capital and risk management Calculation of regulatory capital RWAs by legal entity and by regulatory approach Regulatory treatment Market risk RWAs of 24 billion and minimum capital requirement of 1.9 The market risks subject to capital requirements under Pillar 1 are billion are analysed below.
primarily interest rate, credit spread and equity risks in the trading book and foreign exchange and commodity risks in both the trading and nontrading books.
Interest rate and equity risks are split between general and specific risks.
General risks represent market risks due to a move in a market as a whole, such as a main index or yield curve, while specific risks represent market risks arising from events particular to an underlying issuer.
Firms can choose from two broad methodologies to calculate their market risk capital charge: i the standard rules, whereby regulator-prescribed rules must be applied, and ii the internal model approach, where, subject to regulatory approval, a model such as VaR is used to calculate the capital charge.
RBS uses both methods, with the internal model approach being used to calculate about 76% 2013 - 86% of its capital charge.
VaR and SVaR capture general and specific risks but not risks arising from the impact of defaults and rating changes associated with traded credit products and their derivatives.
For these risks, three productdependent approaches are used: The incremental risk charge IRC model captures risks arising from rating migration and default events for the more liquid traded credit instruments and their derivatives.
The all price risk model covers the generally lower-liquidity correlation trades and their liquid hedges such as first-to-default basket trades.
RBS ceased using an internal model for all price risk during Q2 2014, refer to the following page.
Securitisation and re-securitisation risks in the trading book are treated with the non-trading book standardised capitalisation Regulatory VaR approach.
RBSs VaR model has been approved by the PRA to calculate its regulatory market risk capital requirement for the trading book for those legal entities under its jurisdiction.
These legal entities are The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, RBS Securities Inc, RBS Financial Products Inc, and National Westminster Bank Plc.
As from 1 December 2014, this approval takes the form of an internal model approach permission, replacing the earlier VaR waiver.
While internal VaR provides a measure of the economic risk, regulatory VaR is one of the measures of regulatory capital by legal entity.
The calculation of regulatory VaR differs from that of the internal VaR as it takes into account only regulator-approved products, locations and legal entities and it is based on a ten-day, rather than a one-day, holding period for market risk capital calculations.
The PRA approval covers general market risk in interest rate, foreign exchange, equity and commodity products and specific market risk in unaudited interest rate and equity products.
311 Business review Capital and risk management Traded market risk continued The dependency of positions is modelled using a single-factor Gaussian VaR back-testing copula, which facilitates an efficient calculation of the charge using For RBSs trading book, a green model status was maintained throughout numerical integration.
For details of back-testing results for regulatory VaR, refer to the table on page 307.
IRC is mainly driven by three-month transition, default and correlation parameters.
The portfolio impact of correlated defaults and rating Regulatory SVaR changes is assessed by observing changes in the market value of RBSs SVaR model has also been approved by the PRA for use in the positions using stressed recovery rates and modelled credit spread capital requirement calculation.
The regulatory SVaR differs from internal changes.
Revaluation matrices are used to capture any non-linear SVaR as it covers only regulator-approved products, locations and legal behaviour.
The model has distinct parameter sets for sovereign and corporate Risks not in VaR exposures.
It reflects the overall liquidity of each position referencing an As discussed earlier, RBS has an established RNIV framework that entity, using product type, product maturity and product concentration ensures that the risks not captured in VaR are adequately covered by its characteristics.
The constant level of risk requirement is met by replacing positions that The RNIV framework does not include tail event risks: these risks are default or migrate in one period with equivalent positions in the next.
The covered indirectly by the regulatory multiplier applied to VaR and directly average liquidity horizon by position at the year end was 3.3 months by relevant charges, notably the IRC discussed below.
Incremental risk charge IRC All price risk APR The IRC model quantifies the impact of rating migration and default Until Q2 2014, RBSs APR model was used to determine the capital that events on the market value of instruments with embedded credit risk in should be held against all material price risks, including those arising particular, bonds and credit default swaps that are held in the trading from defaults and credit rating changes affecting securities in the hedged book.
It further captures basis risk between different instruments, portfolio, using a 99.9% confidence level over a one year time horizon.
Following the internal ratings-based approach for credit risk, the IRC is calculated over a one-year capital This model was applied to the correlation trading portfolio subject to horizon with a 99.9% confidence level.
certain eligibility criteria principally that the underlying names be liquid corporate CDS positions.
Given the reduction in the size of the correlation trading portfolio, RBS ceased using an internal model for all price risk during Q2 2014.
With the PRAs approval, all remaining open risk is now capitalised under standardised rules.
unaudited 312 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk capital Minimum capital requirements The following table analyses RBSs total market risk minimum capital requirement of 1,917 million at 31 December 2014, calculated in accordance with the Capital Requirements Regulation CRR : this represents 8% of the corresponding RWA amount, 24 billion.
It comprises a number of regulatory capital requirements split into two categories: i the standardised position risk requirement PRR of 459 million, which has several components: and ii the Pillar 1 model-based PRR of 1,458 million, which comprises several modelled charges.
For 2013 and 2012, the capital requirements were calculated in accordance with Basel 2.5.
CRR Basel 2.5 Basel 2.5 2014 2013 2012 m m m Interest rate position risk requirement 116 147 254 Equity position risk requirement 1 1 1 Option position risk requirement 7 10 26 Commodity position risk requirement 2 13 2 Foreign currency position risk requirement 63 39 12 Specific interest rate risk of securitisation positions 270 123 156 Total standard method 459 333 451 Pillar 1 model based position risk requirement 1,458 2,086 2,959 Total market risk minimum capital requirement 1,917 2,419 3,410 The following table analyses the principal contributors to the Pillar 1 model based PRR presented in the previous table.
Following the implementation of the CRR on 1 January 2014, credit hedges eligible for CVA are no longer included in the modelled market risk capital charges.
Such hedges are now included in the CVA capital charge, which forms part of the capital calculation for counterparty credit risk.
CRR Basel 2.5 Basel 2.5 2014 2013 2012 Average Maximum Minimum Period end Period end Period end 2014 m m m m m m Value-at-risk 323 527 232 329 576 825 Stressed VaR 681 856 511 511 841 1,226 Incremental risk charge 402 530 299 299 443 467 All price risk 2 6 8 12 Risk not in VaR 412 472 319 319 218 429 1,458 2,086 2,959 Key points Overall, the Pillar 1 model-based PRR declined 30% during 2014, RBSs total market risk minimum capital requirement fell in 2014, driven by reductions in the VaR and SVaR charges and the IRC, largely driven by the decreases in the Pillar 1 model-based offset somewhat by an increase in the RNIV charge.
contributors primarily VaR, SVaR and the IRC.
The standard method requirement rose, chiefly driven by the rise in the specific The decrease in the VaR and SVaR charges was primarily driven by interest rate risk of securitisation positions.
the removal of the CVA eligible hedges as noted above in Q1 and ongoing risk reduction in Q2 and Q3 relating to the asset backed The interest rate position risk requirement decreased, primarily due product portfolio as part of the risk reduction strategy.
to the closure of the interest rate trading business in Japan and the associated disposal of bond positions.
The IRC declined by 32%, notably in Q4 reflecting a reduced exposure to the eurozone periphery and continued risk reduction in The decrease in the commodity position risk requirement was driven the US ABP portfolio.
The IRC figures presented in the table above by a change in the treatment of options under the CRR standardised differ from those in the table on the following page for the reasons approach.
explained in the note to that table.
The foreign currency position risk requirement increased, reflecting Given the reduction in the size of the correlation trading portfolio, increased foreign currency cash positions over the period.
RBS ceased using an internal model for all price risk during Q2.
With the PRAs approval, all remaining open risk is now capitalised Specific interest rate risk of securitisation positions: This charge under standardised rules.
rose, reflecting the change in treatment regarding securitisation exposures with a risk weight of 1,250%.
For details of the drivers of the increase in the RNIV charge, refer to the commentary on page 310. unaudited 313 Business review Capital and risk management Traded market risk continued IRC by rating and product category The following table analyses the IRC by rating and product.
2 The figures presented are based on the spot IRC charge at 31 December 2014 and will therefore not agree with the IRC position risk requirement, as this is based on the 60-day average.
The figures presented above are in capital terms.
3 The IRC figures by product category presented above are based on an internal allocation and do not constitute standalone position risk requirements.
Key points The decrease in the AAA rating category reflects the continued Spot IRC capital fell 189 million or 43% year on year, for the same reduction in US ABP business.
reasons noted on the previous page for the IRC PRR.
The largest decline was in the interest rate derivatives much of it due to decreased positions in BBB-rated EU periphery exposure.
This was partially offset by the removal of CVA eligible hedges under the CRR, which drove the movement in credit derivatives.
Securitisation positions in the trading book The following table shows the capital requirement for trading book securitisation positions by rating.
Ratings 1 Non-investment Capital AAA AA A BBB grade Unrated Total 1,2 STD PRR 3 deductions 2014 m m m m m m m % m Trading book securitisation charge 3.9 1.0 4.1 22.1 148.9 90.3 270.3 10.0 2013 Trading book securitisation charge 8.9 6.2 12.7 35.5 54.5 5.4 123.2 42.9 932.1 Notes: 1 Based on S&P ratings.
3 Percentage of total standardised position risk requirement.
Key point The increase in the non-investment grade and unrated categories was caused by the change in treatment regarding securitisation exposures with a risk weight of 1,250%.
This increase was partially offset by the disposal of assets across the rating categories.
unaudited 314 Business review Capital and risk management Valuation and independent price verification The review process comprises the following steps: Traders are responsible for marking-to-market their trading book positions daily, ensuring that assets and liabilities in the trading book are The committees prioritise models for review by Model Risk, measured at their fair value.
Any profits or losses on the revaluation of considering the materiality of the risk booked against the model and positions are recognised daily.
an assessment of the degree of model risk, that is the valuation uncertainty arising from the choice of modelling assumptions.
Product controllers are responsible for ensuring that independent price verification processes are in place covering all trading book positions held Model Risk quantifies the model risk by comparing front office model by their business.
Independent price verification and trader supervision outputs with those of alternative models independently developed by are the key controls over front office marking of positions.
For more information on valuation controls, refer to page 303.
The The sensitivities derived from the pricing models are validated.
validation of pricing models is discussed below.
The conclusions of the review are used by Market Risk to inform risk Model validation limits and by Finance to inform model reserves.
The independent model validation framework governing both pricing models and risk models including VaR is described below.
Risk models All new risk models are subject to review and sign-off by Model Risk.
RBS uses a variety of models to manage and measure market risk, as described below.
These models comprise pricing models used for All model changes are approved through model governance at the valuation of positions and risk models for risk measurement and capital franchise level.
Changes to existing models that have an impact on VaR calculation purposes.
They are developed in both RBS-level and lowerexceeding 5% at legal entity level or 15% at a major business level are level functions and are subject to independent review and sign-off.
also subject to Model Risk review and sign-off as are all model changes that require regulator approval before implementation.
A dedicated independent model review and challenge function - Model Risk - performs reviews of relevant models in two instances: i for new Model Risks independent review comprises some or all of the following models or amendments to existing models and ii as part of its ongoing steps, as appropriate: programme to assess the performance of these models.
Testing and challenging the logical and conceptual soundness of the A new model is typically introduced when an existing model is no longer methodology: fit for purpose or a new product requires a new methodology or model to quantify the risk appropriately.
Amendments are usually made when a Testing the assumptions underlying the model, where feasible, weakness is identified during use of a model or following analysis either against actual behaviour.
In its validation report, Model Risk will by the model developers or by Model Risk.
opine on the reasonableness and stability of the assumptions and specify which assumptions, if any, should be routinely monitored in Pricing models production: Pricing models are developed by a dedicated front office quantitative team, in conjunction with the trading desk.
They are used for the Testing whether all key market risks have been sufficiently captured: valuation of positions for which prices are not directly observable and for the risk management of the portfolio.
Re-applying the proposed approach to verify that the same outcome is achieved: Any pricing models that are used as the basis for valuing books and records are subject to approval and oversight by asset-level modelled Comparing outputs with results from alternative methods: product review committees.
Testing parameter selection and calibration: These committees comprise representatives of the major stakeholders in the valuation process - trading, finance, market risk, model development Ensuring model outputs are sufficiently conservative in areas where and model review functions.
there is significant model uncertainty: Confirming the applicability of tests for accuracy and stability: recalculating and ensuring that results are robust: and Ensuring appropriate sensitivity analysis has been performed and unaudited documented.
315 Business review Capital and risk management Traded market risk continued Risk assessment, monitoring and mitigation Based on the review and findings from Model Risk, an internal model Interest rate risk governance committee with appropriate delegated authority considers Non-traded interest rate risk NTIRR factors are grouped into the whether a model can be approved for use and whether any conditions following categories: need to be imposed, including those relating to the remediation of material issues raised through the review process.
Once approved Repricing risk, which arises when asset and liability positions either through internal governance, the new or amended model is implemented.
mature in the case of fixed-rate positions or their interest rates Models used for regulatory reporting may additionally require PRA reset in the case of floating-rate positions at different dates.
mismatches may give rise to net interest income and economic value volatility as interest rates vary.
Model Risk also reassesses the appropriateness of approved risk models on a periodic basis according to the approved Periodic Review Policy.
Yield curve risk, which arises from unanticipated changes in the Each periodic review consists of a quick scan assessment and a shape of the yield curve, such that rates at different maturity points subsequent decision by an internal model governance committee with may move differently.
Such movements may give rise to interest appropriate delegated authority to re-ratify a model based on the quick income and economic value volatility.
scan assessment or to perform additional work prior to making a decision whether or not to re-ratify a model.
In the quick scan assessment Model The two risk factors above incorporate the duration risk arising from Risk assesses changes since the last approval along the following the reinvestment of maturing swaps hedging net free reserves or dimensions: change in size composition of the portfolio, market changes, net exposure to equity and other low fixed-rate or non-interestmodel performance, model changes, status of any outstanding issues, bearing liability balances including, but not limited to, current scheduled activities including work carried over from previous reviews.
This independent oversight also provides additional assurance that RBS Basis risk, which arises when related instruments with the same holds appropriate capital for the market risk to which it is exposed.
tenor are valued using different reference yield curves.
Changes in the spread between the different reference curves can result in The model testing team in Market Risk also performs regular VaR model unexpected changes in the valuation of or income difference testing, which is discussed in more detail under Risk measurement - between assets, liabilities or derivative instruments.
This occurs, for value-at-risk on page 304. example, in the retail and commercial portfolios, when products valued on the basis of the Bank of England base rate are funded Non-traded market risk with LIBOR-linked instruments.
Risk governance RBS manages the three key categories of non-traded market risk Optionality risk, which arises when customers have the right to separately.
The categories are: non-traded interest rate risk: non-traded terminate, prepay or otherwise alter a transaction without penalty, foreign exchange risk: and non-traded equity risk.
resulting in a change in the timing or magnitude of the cash flows of an asset, liability or off-balance sheet instrument.
This risk primarily The Chief Risk Officer delegates responsibility for day-to-day control of arises in the US mortgage business in CFG where long-term fixednon-traded interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk to the Director of rate loans are the norm and prepayment penalties are rare.
Due to the long-term nature of many non-trading book portfolios and their Non-traded market risk positions are reported to the ALCo and the Board, varied interest rate repricing characteristics and maturities, it is likely that monthly in the case of interest rate risk and quarterly in the case of net interest income will vary from period to period, even if interest rates foreign exchange and equity risk.
New business originated in any period will alter RBSs interest rate sensitivity if the resulting portfolio differs from portfolios Controls and assurance originated in prior periods, depending on the extent to which exposure The ERF approves the non-traded market risk framework.
traded market risk policy statement sets out the governance and risk RBSs policy is to manage the interest rate sensitivity within risk limits management framework through effective identification, measurement, that are approved by the ERF and endorsed by the ALCo before being reporting, mitigation, monitoring and control.
These include, in particular, interest rate sensitivity and VaR limits.
The models used for managing non-traded market risk are subject to the validation process described on page 315.
In order to manage exposures within these limits, RBS aggregates its interest rate positions and hedges them externally using cash and Risk appetite derivatives - primarily interest rate swaps.
The ERF sets RBSs appetite for non-traded market risk and approves appropriate risk limits as recommended by the Director of Market Risk This task is primarily carried out by RBS Treasury, to which all and the ALCo.
Further information on the process and the limit framework businesses except CFG and CIB transfer most of their NTIRR.
The main can be found on pages 196 to 205. exposures and limit utilisations are reported to the ALCo and the Board monthly.
unaudited 316 Business review Capital and risk management Foreign exchange risk Risk measurement The only material non-traded open currency positions are the structural Interest rate risk foreign exchange exposures arising from investments in foreign NTIRR can be measured from either an economic value-based or subsidiaries, branches and associates and their related currency funding.
Value-based approaches measure These exposures are assessed and managed by RBS Treasury to the change in value of the balance sheet assets and liabilities over a predefined risk appetite levels under delegated authority from the ALCo.
longer timeframe, including all cash flows.
Earnings-based approaches RBS Treasury seeks to limit the potential volatility impact on RBSs measure the potential short-term generally one year impact on the Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio from exchange rate movements by income statement of charges in interest rates.
maintaining a structural open currency position.
Gains or losses arising RBS uses both approaches to quantify its interest rate risk: VaR as its from the retranslation of net investments in overseas operations are value-based approach and sensitivity of net interest income NII as its recognised in equity reserves and reduce the sensitivity of capital ratios earnings-based approach.
to foreign exchange rate movements primarily arising from the retranslation of  RWAs.
Sensitivity is minimised These two approaches provide different yet complementary views of the where, for a given currency, the ratio of the structural open position to impact of interest rate risk on the balance sheet at a point in time.
The RWAs equals RBSs CET1 ratio.
The sensitivity of the CET1 capital ratio scenarios employed in the NII sensitivity approach incorporate business to exchange rates is monitored monthly and reported to the ALCo at least assumptions and simulated modifications in customer behaviour as quarterly.
In contrast, the VaR approach assumes static underlying positions and therefore does not provide a dynamic Foreign exchange exposures arising from customer transactions are sold measurement of interest rate risk.
In addition, while the NII sensitivity down by businesses on a regular basis in line with RBS policy.
calculations are measured to a 12-month horizon and thus provide a Equity risk shorter-term view of the risks on the balance sheet, the VaR approach Non-traded equity risk is the potential variation in the income and can identify risks not captured in the sensitivity analysis, in particular the reserves arising from changes in non-trading book equity valuations.
Any impact of duration and repricing risk on earnings beyond 12 months.
such risk is identified prior to any investments and then mitigated through Value-at-risk a framework of controls.
RBSs standard VaR metrics - which assume a time horizon of one Investments, acquisitions or disposals of a strategic nature are referred to trading day and a confidence level of 99% - are based on interest rate RBSs Acquisitions and Disposals Committee ADCo.
Once approved by repricing gaps at the reporting date.
Daily rate moves are modelled using ADCo for execution, such transactions are referred for approval to the observations over the last 500 business days.
These incorporate Board, the RBS Executive Committee ExCo, the RBS Chief Financial customer products plus associated funding and hedging transactions as Officer or as otherwise required.
Decisions to acquire or hold equity well as non-financial assets and liabilities such as property, plant and positions in the non-trading book that are not of a strategic nature, such equipment, capital and reserves.
Behavioural assumptions are applied as as customer restructurings, are taken by authorised persons with appropriate.
delegated authority under the credit approval framework.
The table below shows the NTIRR VaR for RBSs retail and commercial banking activities at a 99% confidence level together with a currency analysis of period end VaR.
Average Period end Maximum Minimum m m m m 2014 50 23 79 23 2013 45 51 57 30 2012 46 21 65 20 2014 2013 2012 m m m Euro 2 4 19 Sterling 12 19 17 US dollar 27 44 15 Other 3 2 4 Key points The reduction in exposure was achieved in the second half of the The decline in VaR between 2013 and 2014 reflects RBS policy to year through both hedging and the utilisation of naturally arising reduce economic exposure to changes in interest rates.
This notably balance sheet offsets, such as the increase in net free reserves related to US dollar and sterling interest rate exposures.
following the partial IPO of CFG.
This resulted in period end VaR decreasing significantly more than the average for the year.
These movements remained well within RBSs approved market risk appetite.
317 Business review Capital and risk management Non-traded market risk continued The following table shows the sensitivity of net interest income, over the Sensitivity of net interest income next 12 months, to an immediate upward or downward change of 100 To analyse earnings sensitivities, forecasts are generated using implied basis points to all interest rates.
In addition, the table includes the impact forward rates, projected new business volumes, mix and pricing of a gradual 400 basis point steepening bear steepener and a gradual generated using business assumptions.
Based on the balance sheet at 300 basis point flattening bull flattener of the yield curve at tenors the most recent month end, two NII forecasts are calculated each month: greater than a year.
i a forecast for the current full year, which incorporates actuals monthly as the year progresses: and ii a base-case 12 month rolling forecast.
The scenarios represent annualised interest rate stresses of a scale deemed sufficient to trigger a modification in customer behaviour.
The In addition, the 12 month rolling forecast is re-run using alternative rates asymmetry in the steepening and flattening scenarios reflects the under various scenarios, incorporating changes in customer behaviour difference in the expected behaviour of interest rates as they approach and business assumptions as appropriate.
scenarios are analysed to identify key drivers.
These forecasts and sensitivities form part of the information used by senior management to The reported sensitivities will vary over time due to a number of factors manage the bank's NII targets.
such as market conditions and strategic changes to the balance sheet mix and should not therefore be considered predictive of future This sensitivity analysis also incorporates assumptions relating to performance.
Euro Sterling US dollar Other Total Of which CFG 2014 m m m m m US$m 100 basis point shift in yield curves 28 347 214 17 516 154 100 basis point shift in yield curves 34 298 87 12 431 85 Bear steepener 406 105 Bull flattener 116 58 2013 100 basis point shift in yield curves 59 416 175 31 681 183 100 basis point shift in yield curves 29 333 82 15 459 76 Bear steepener 403 122 Bull flattener 273 88 2012 100 basis point shift in yield curves 29 472 119 27 589 255 100 basis point shift in yield curves 20 257 29 11 317 76 Bear steepener 216 65 Bull flattener 77 33 Key points Structural hedging Banks generally have the benefit of a significant pool of stable, non and Interest rate exposure remains asset sensitive, such that rising rates low interest bearing liabilities, principally comprising equity and money will have a positive impact on net interest income.
These balances are usually hedged, either by investing directly in longer-term fixed rate assets or by the use of interest The decreased sensitivity to parallel shifts in the yield curve over a rate swaps, in order to provide a consistent and predictable revenue 12 month horizon is due to increased exposure to fixed rate assets stream.
and changes in assumptions regarding the impact on customer pricing.
RBS targets a weighted average life for these economic hedges.
This is accomplished using a continuous rolling maturity programme, which is primarily managed by Treasury to achieve the desired profile.
The maturity profile of the hedge aims to reduce the potential sensitivity of income to rate movements.
The structural hedging programme is RBSwide, capturing the position in the UK banking businesses and regulated subsidiaries in other jurisdictions.
unaudited 318 Business review Capital and risk management Product hedging Product structural hedges are used to minimise the volatility on earnings related to specific products, primarily customer deposits.
The balances are primarily hedged with medium-term interest rate swaps, so that reported income is less sensitive to movements in shortterm interest rates.
The size and term of the hedge are based on the stability of the underlying portfolio.
The table below shows the impact on net interest income associated with product hedges managed by RBS Treasury.
These relate to the main UK banking businesses except Private Banking.
The figure shown represents the incremental contribution of the hedge relative to short-term wholesale cash rates.
2014 2013 Net interest income m m UK Personal & Business Banking 393 387 Commercial Banking 180 121 Corporate & Institutional Banking 75 77 Total product hedges 648 585 Key points Across RBS, banking book exposure to medium-term fixed rates fell The incremental impact of product hedges on net interest income during 2014.
The increased exposure established by the product remained positive in 2014, increasing from 585 million to 648 hedge was offset by reducing exposure in Treasury.
Throughout the year, short term wholesale cash rates remained at or close to historical low levels.
The notional size of the Equity hedging hedge increased from 48 billion to 64 billion.
The scope of the Equity structural hedges are used to minimise the volatility on earnings hedging programme was extended to cover not only customer arising from returns on equity.
The hedges managed by Treasury relate current accounts but also customer savings deposits.
The mainly to the UK banking businesses and contributed 0.8 billion to these incremental yield on the portfolio above 3-month LIBOR fell from businesses in 2014 2013 - 0.8 billion, which is an incremental benefit 1.2% to 1.0%, largely as a result of the one-off effect of establishing relative to short-term wholesale cash rates.
The size of the hedge the new hedge.
At the end of December 2014, the equivalent increased from 39 billion in 2013 to 41 billion in 2014.
The fall in yield incremental yield available in the market was 0.8% compared with mainly results from reinvestment of maturing hedges at lower rates.
1.5% at the end of 2013. unaudited 319 Business review Capital and risk management Non-traded market risk continued Foreign exchange risk The table below shows structural foreign currency exposures.
Net assets of NonNet assets of Net Structural foreign Residual structural overseas controlling overseas operations investment currency exposures Economic foreign currency operations interests excluding NCI 1 hedges pre-economic hedges hedges 2 exposures 2014 m m m m m m m US dollar 11,402 2,321 9,081 3,683 5,398 4,034 1,364 Euro 6,076 39 6,037 192 5,845 2,081 3,764 Other non-sterling 4,178 456 3,722 2,930 792 792 21,656 2,816 18,840 6,805 12,035 6,115 5,920 2013 US dollar 16,176 16,176 1,581 14,595 3,808 10,787 Euro 6,606 9 6,597 190 6,407 2,226 4,181 Other non-sterling 4,233 372 3,861 3,185 676 676 27,015 381 26,634 4,956 21,678 6,034 15,644 2012 US dollar 17,313 1 17,312 2,476 14,836 3,897 10,939 Euro 8,903 2 8,901 636 8,265 2,179 6,086 Other non-sterling 4,754 260 4,494 3,597 897 897 30,970 263 30,707 6,709 23,998 6,076 17,922 Notes: 1 Non-controlling interests NCI represents the structural foreign exchange exposure not attributable to owners equity, which consisted mainly of CFG in US dollar in 2014 2013 and 2012: mainly RFS MI in other non-sterling 2 Economic hedges mainly represent US dollar and euro preference shares in issue that are treated as equity under IFRS and do not qualify as hedges for accounting purposes.
Key points Net investment hedges increased by 1.8 billion, primarily due to an Structural foreign currency exposure at 31 December 2014 was increase in US dollar hedging to manage the disposal of CFG.
12.0 billion and 5.9 billion before and after economic hedges, respectively, 9.6 billion and 9.7 billion lower than at 31 December Economic hedges, which mainly consist of equity capital securities 2013, of which 7.5 billion related to CFG.
Movements in structural in issue, remained broadly unchanged.
foreign currency exposure result from changes in the net assets of overseas operations, non-controlling interests and net investment Changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect equity in hedges.
proportion to structural foreign currency exposure.
For example, a 5% strengthening in foreign currencies against sterling would result Net assets of overseas operations declined by 5.4 billion, largely in a gain of 0.6 billion in equity 2013 - 1.1 billion, while a 5% due to write-downs relating to CFG and US deferred tax assets.
weakening would result in a loss of 0.6 billion in equity 2013 - 1 billion.
Non-controlling interests increased by 2.4 billion, as a result of the partial disposal of CFG during the year.
320 Business review Capital and risk management Equity risk Equity positions are carried at fair value on the balance sheet based on available market prices where possible.
In the event that market prices are not available, fair value is based on appropriate valuation techniques or management estimates.
Refer to the table below for the balance sheet carrying value of non-traded book equity positions.
2014 2013 2012 m m m Exchange-traded equity 132 368 472 Private equity 544 621 632 Other 681 623 799 1,357 1,612 1,903 The exposures may take the form of i equity shares listed on a recognised exchange, ii private equity shares or iii other equity shares consisting mainly of Federal Reserve and Federal Home Loan Bank stock.
Refer to the table below for the net realised and unrealised gains from these positions.
2014 2013 2012 m m m Net realised gains arising from disposals 111 48 89 Unrealised gains included in Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital 199 232 168 Note: 1 Includes gains or losses on available-for-sale instruments only.
Gains on equity securities designated at fair value through profit or loss but not held for trading purposes were 222 million for 2014 2013 - gains of 96 million: 2012 - gains of 184 million.
321 Business review Capital and risk management Non-traded market risk continued VaR for selected AFS non-trading portfolios Available-for-sale portfolios in CIB and RCR, other than the structured credit portfolio, do not typically form part of the structural interest rate framework due to the short-term nature of the interest rate risks they carry.
They are thus monitored and managed through the same framework and using the same metrics as portfolios in the trading book.
2 The table above excludes the structured credit portfolio and loans and receivables.
Key points Calculation of regulatory capital The average VaR for the non-trading book, predominantly RBS holds capital for two types of non-traded market risk exposures: comprising available-for-sale portfolios, was 4.6 million during 2014 NTIRR and non-trading book foreign exchange.
compared with 9.2 million during the same period in 2013.
This was largely driven by a decline in the credit spread VaR in Q1, Capital for NTIRR is captured under the Pillar 2A process.
This is which partly reflected a decision to switch some of the securities calculated by considering the potential impact on RBSs economic value held as collateral from floating-rate notes issued by financial over a one year horizon.
The four main sources of NTIRR - repricing, institutions to government bonds during March as part of RWA yield curve, basis and optionality risks - are captured in the calculation.
Pillar 1 capital must be held for non-trading book foreign exchange A further driver of the decline, which largely affected the last three exposures, as outlined under CRR Articles 455 and 92 3 c. Structural quarters of the year, was the decision to reduce the US ABP foreign exchange exposures are excluded from the calculations as business in line with the exit strategy.
outlined under CRR Article 352 2 : such exposures are considered under Pillar 2A.
Structured credit portfolio The structured credit portfolio is measured on a notional and fair value Non-traded equity risk is captured in credit risk RWAs.
basis because of its illiquid nature.
Notional and fair value decreased to 0.4 billion and 0.3 billion respectively 2013 - 0.7 billion and 0.5 The capital calculations under internal capital adequacy assessment billion, reflecting the sale of underlying assets, primarily consumer ABS, process are also used for economic capital purposes.
RMBS and CLOs CDOs, in line with RCR strategy.
322 Business review Capital and risk management Country risk 324 Definition 324 Sources of risk 324 Overview 324 Outlook for 2015 324 Governance 324 Risk appetite 325 Risk mitigation 325 Risk monitoring 325 Measurement 325 Basis of preparation 326 Summary of country exposures 323 Business review Capital and risk management Country risk Outlook for 2015 Definition In 2015, recovery in the advanced economies will likely remain uneven, Country risk is the risk of losses occurring as a result of either a country with widening differentials between the US and Europe in growth, price event or unfavourable country operating conditions.
As country events levels and policies.
The policy divergence will be amplified by the January may simultaneously affect all or many individual exposures to a country, 2015 ECB announcement of a 1,000 billion quantitative easing country event risk is a concentration risk.
For other types of concentration programme, aimed at reversing deflation and stimulating credit growth, risks such as product, sector or single-name concentration, refer to the while the US Federal Reserve is expected to start tightening interest Credit risk section.
rates in the second half of 2015.
Sources of risk The Chinese economy continues its structural slowdown: broad reforms Country risk has the potential to affect all parts of RBSs portfolio across aim at ensuring more sustainable long-term growth, but accumulated wholesale and retail activities that are directly or indirectly linked to the financial vulnerabilities bear downside risks.
Growth in emerging markets country in question.
It arises from possible economic or political events in is expected to be restrained by reduced capital inflows, depressed global each country to which RBS has exposure, and from unfavourable commodity prices, and geopolitical conflicts, at times resulting in market conditions affecting daily operations in a country.
volatility in the most vulnerable economies.
Country events may include a sovereign default, a political conflict, a Governance banking crisis or a deep and prolonged recession leading to possible The Executive Risk Forum ERF delegates authority to set sovereign counterparty defaults.
Transfer or convertibility restrictions imposed by a ratings, sovereign loss given default rates, and country Watchlist colours countrys government to stem the loss of foreign currency reserves may to the Group Chief Credit Officer CCO, who may further delegate this temporarily prevent counterparties from meeting their foreign currency authority to Strategic Risk.
The ERF delegates authority to decide on payment obligations.
Major currency depreciation may also affect a country risk matters such as risk appetite, risk management strategy and customers income or debt burden, leading to default.
framework, and risk exposure and policy to the Credit Risk Committee CRC, which may further delegate it to Country Risk Management Unfavourable operating conditions may include the risk that a weak or CoRM.
This includes the setting of country limits, where appropriate creditor-unfriendly legal system within a country makes it difficult for RBS including allocations for specific product groups.
The CCO and CRC can to recover its claims in the event of customer default.
An unreliable or escalate issues to the ERF when necessary.
unstable political system may lead to sudden compliance or reputational issues, or even expropriation without proper compensation.
For further information on governance, refer to the Risk governance section on page 176.
Overview The conflict between Ukraine and Russia and the consequent escalating Risk appetite tensions between Russia and the West triggered an internal review of RBSs country risk appetite framework has top-down and bottom-up credit grades.
Limits for both countries were adjusted, additional credit components.
restrictions were placed on new business and exposures were reviewed against international sanctions.
The top-down component is guided by global risk appetite: each countrys internal sovereign rating: its strategic importance to the bank: the The eurozone region emerged from recession, with some of the periphery composition of the banks portfolio: the funding profile: and an countries recovering but growth in other countries, including Germany assessment of the potential for losses arising from possible key country mostly sluggish.
The EUs Single Supervisory Mechanism SSM risk events.
This component provides a clear structure for the commenced in November 2014 when the European Central Bank ECB consideration of downside scenarios, the identification of countries that assumed supervisory responsibility for the 130 largest banks of the pose material concentration risks to the bank, and possible management eurozone, after concluding a detailed Asset Quality Review of their actions.
books, adjusting balance sheets and stress testing their capital positions.
This SSM is the first pillar of the EU Banking Union that should reduce Bottom-up analysis includes the risk return relationship as well as the risk of a repeat of the financial crisis over the longer term and that reputational and regulatory risk.
helps to support the quality of the banks exposure, particularly in Europe.
The other pillar will be the Single Resolution Mechanism, scheduled for Country limits are set for almost all countries.
The UK is an exception, 2016. given its home country status.
The US is another exception because of the specific local risk management structure, the size of the local portfolio Important shifts in exposure occurred in 2014 as a result of the sale of a and corresponding role in RBS-wide risk management, together with the significant portion of RBS N. V. s liquidity portfolio AFS bonds following country's strong ratings.
internal asset quality reviews and stress tests.
The sale consisted of Spanish covered bonds, contributing to a reduction in Spanish net balance sheet exposure to 3.3 billion 2013 - 9.1 billion: 2012 - 11.5 billion.
unaudited 324 Business review Capital and risk management Risk mitigation Measurement Part of RBSs exposure is mitigated by guarantors or insurers including In this section, country exposure includes wholesale and retail net onexport credit agencies, credit default swap CDS protection providers, or balance sheet exposure drawn amounts under lending facilities, net of collateral in third countries, which will not be directly affected by a country provisions, mark-to-market derivatives positions and issuer-risk debt event in the obligors country.
Further details on credit mitigation securities positions in the banking book and trading book together with instruments are provided in the Credit risk section.
off-balance sheet exposure contingent obligations and undrawn commitments.
CDS contracts are used to hedge either entire portfolios or specific individual exposures.
These transactions are subject to regular RBS also estimates its funding mismatches at risk of redenomination in margining, which usually takes the form of cash collateral.
For European vulnerable eurozone countries.
These mismatches are defined as the peripheral sovereigns, credit protection is purchased from a number of exposures net of provisions that would be expected to convert to a new major European banks, mostly outside the country of the reference entity.
national currency minus the liabilities that would be expected to reIn a few cases where protection was bought from banks in the country of denominate at the same time.
Exposures exclude balances at low risk of the reference entity, giving rise to wrong-way risk, this risk is mitigated redenomination, as identified through consideration of the relevant through specific collateralisation and monitored weekly.
documentation, particularly the currency of exposure, governing law, court of jurisdiction, precise definition of the contract currency for euro Risk monitoring facilities, and location of payment.
The CoRM team monitors and reports on exposures to all countries, and follows up with the customer businesses in the event of limit excesses.
Basis of preparation CoRM has delegated authority up to specified levels to decide on country The tables on pages 326 to 327 show RBSs exposure at 31 December limit increases: any such decision must be reported to the CRC.
Exposures are reported by country of operation of Persistent excesses are escalated to the CRC.
the obligor, except exposures to governments and individuals, which are shown by country of residence.
A country risk Watchlist process identifies emerging issues, facilitating the development of mitigation strategies.
Monthly reports discussing The country of operation is the country where the main operating assets RBSs main country risks and trends are sent to the CRC leadership of a legal entity are held, or where its main cash flows are generated, team, with any key risks reported to the Executive Committee and the taking account of the entitys dependency on subsidiaries' activities.
Countries shown are those which had ratings of A or below from Countries Watchlisted Amber are monitored closely.
Appetite for Standard and Poors, Moodys or Fitch at 31 December 2014, where countries Watchlisted Red is limited to short-term business in areas such RBSs balance sheet exposure as defined in this section to as trade finance and derivatives, unless the country is deemed a strategic counterparties operating or individuals residing in them exceeded 1 priority country.
Also included are selected eurozone countries.
Detailed portfolio reviews are conducted to ensure that the composition of The exposures are stated before taking into account risk mitigants such country portfolios remains aligned with RBSs country risk appetite in light as guarantees, insurance or collateral with the exception of reverse of economic and political developments.
Changes in sovereign ratings or repos which may have been put in place to reduce or eliminate exposure country Watchlist status trigger a review of appetite and, where to country risk events.
The tables show CDS positions separately, as appropriate, are referred to the CRC for discussion.
RBS may be either a net buyer or a net seller of protection.
Exposures relating to ocean-going vessels are not included as they cannot be meaningfully assigned to specific countries from a country risk perspective.
2 Debt securities - Comprise securities classified as available-for-sale AFS, loans and receivables LAR, held-for-trading HFT and designated as at fair value through profit or loss DFV.
All debt securities other than LAR securities are carried at fair value.
LAR debt securities are carried at amortised cost less impairment.
HFT debt securities are presented as long positions including DFV securities net of short positions per country.
Impairment losses and exchange differences relating to AFS debt securities, together with interest, are recognised in the income statement.
Other changes in the fair value of AFS securities are reported in AFS reserves.
3 Derivatives net - Comprise the mark-to-market mtm value of such contracts after the effect of legally enforceable netting agreements in line with the corresponding regulatory capital models, but before the effect of collateral.
4 Securities financing transactions SFT net - Comprise the mtm value of the cash and securities that are due to RBS at a future date under repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, stock borrowing, stock lending and equity financing transactions, after the effect of collateral intrinsic to the transaction and legally enforceable netting agreements.
Counterparty netting is applied as per the corresponding regulatory capital approach.
Additional collateral called to offset mtm positions variation margin is not included.
5 Net balance sheet exposure - Comprises net lending, debt securities, derivatives net and SFT net exposures, as defined above.
6 Off-balance sheet - Comprises letters of credit, guarantees, other contingent obligations and legally committed undrawn facilities.
7 Total exposure - Comprises net balance sheet exposure and off-balance sheet exposure, as defined above.
8 Credit default swaps CDSs - Under a CDS contract, the credit risk on the reference entity is transferred from the buyer to the seller.
Fair value or mtm value represents the balance sheet carrying value of the resulting exposure.
The mtm value of CDSs is included in derivatives against the counterparty of the trade, as opposed to the reference entity.
The notional is the par value of the credit protection bought or sold and is included against the reference entity of the CDS contract.
The column CDS notional less fair value represents the net effect on exposure should the CDS contracts be triggered by a credit event, assuming a zero recovery rate on the reference exposure.
This net effect would be the increase in exposure arising from sold positions netted against the decrease arising from bought positions.
For a sold position, the change in exposure equals the notional less the fair value amount: this represents the amount RBS would owe to its CDS counterparties if the reference entity defaulted.
Positive recovery rates would tend to reduce the gross components increases and decreases of those numbers.
Exposures relating to credit derivative product companies CDPCs and related hedges as well as Nth-to-default basket swaps have been excluded, as they cannot be meaningfully attributed to a particular reference entity or country.
Exposures to CDPCs are disclosed on page 287.
9 Sovereign - Comprises central, regional and local government, and central banks.
10 Eurozone periphery - Ireland, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Greece and Cyprus.
11 Other eurozone - Austria, Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Malta, Slovakia and Slovenia.
327 Business review Capital and risk management Country risk continued Key points Spain - exposure decreased by 5.8 billion to 3.3 billion, The comments below relate to changes in country exposures in largely due to sales of 4.8 billion mostly covered bonds from 2014 unless indicated otherwise.
the RBS N. V. liquidity portfolio, under favourable market conditions.
These sales also reduced concentrations in Net balance sheet and off-balance sheet exposure to most countries Spanish banks and CRE.
Net HFT debt exposure and lending declined across most products.
RBS maintained a cautious stance to the construction, telecommunications and other sectors also and many clients continued to reduce debt levels.
depreciated against sterling by 6.5% while the US dollar appreciated by 5.9%.
Portugal - exposure was stable at 0.8 billion.
HFT debt securities increased as trading returned but remained small.
Total eurozone net balance sheet exposure decreased by 4.9 billion or 5% to 97.6 billion.
Reductions in eurozone periphery Greece - exposure was essentially unchanged at 0.4 billion.
countries and in net lending in other countries were partly offset by This comprised mostly collateralised derivatives exposure to increases in debt securities in Germany and France.
The main banks and corporate lending, including exposure to local reductions were in lending to corporate clients mostly in Ireland, subsidiaries of international companies.
Net of collateral held Germany, Spain and France and to the Irish personal sector: in under credit support annex and reflecting the effect of credit cash deposits held with central banks in Germany and the agency cover and parental guarantees, total committed Netherlands: in available-for-sale AFS debt securities issued by exposure was approximately 120 million net of provisions, Spanish and Dutch financial institutions: and in net held-for-trading mostly in RCR.
Contingency planning, including any potential HFT government bond positions in Italy and Spain.
Net HFT debt operational and system changes, has been refreshed to ensure securities in Germany, France, the Netherlands, Belgium and a few readiness for any downside scenario.
other countries increased, driven by trading activity and auctions.
Notional bought and sold CDS decreased significantly, primarily as a Funding mismatches - material estimated funding mismatches result of novations.
On balance, net bought CDS protection on at risk of redenomination at 31 December 2014 were: eurozone exposures increased by 1.3 billion.
This largely related to - Ireland 4.0 billion down from 6.5 billion due to reduced hedging of the credit valuation adjustment on uncollateralised or lending.
under-collateralised positions, the fair value of which increased - Spain 0.5 billion down from 6.5 billion, largely due to the driven by much lower interest rates and a stronger US dollar.
Net reduction in AFS securities.
lending exposure in RCR fell to 4.1 billion for the eurozone as a - Italy 1.5 billion up from 0.5 billion due to higher derivatives whole, including 2.0 billion in Ireland, 0.8 billion in Spain and 0.6 exposure, lower euro deposits and as the central bank billion in Germany, with the commercial real estate sector CRE funding line was no longer used.
accounting for broadly half of the total.
- Portugal 0.5 billion slightly up due to higher debt trading.
Eurozone periphery net balance sheet exposure decreased by 10.4 The net positions for Greece and Cyprus were minimal.
the possible exception of Greece, risks of eurozone break-up redenomination events have materially receded since 2011- Ireland - net balance sheet exposure fell by 3.7 billion or 14% 2012, owing to major improvements in liquidity conditions, to 22.6 billion, with exposure to corporates and households driven by the availability of substantial new tools for the decreasing by 3.3 billion and 1.2 billion respectively, European Central Bank, the establishment of the European reflecting sales, repayments and write-offs partly offset by Stability Mechanism and member countries progress on impairment write-backs plus currency movements.
fell by 2.2 billion to 8.5 billion, reflecting improved collateral values.
Cash deposits with the Central Bank of Ireland Germany - net balance sheet exposure rose by 2.9 billion to 26.6 increased by 0.5 billion as part of Ulster Banks preparations billion, as a result of increases in net HFT exposure, AFS debt for the new Capital Requirements Regulation liquidity coverage securities and derivatives exposure to non-bank financial ratio requirements which come into effect in 2015. institutions.
This was partially offset by decreases in corporate lending particularly in CRE and to securitisation vehicles, and in Italy - exposure fell by 0.9 billion to 4.2 billion, largely cash deposits with the Bundesbank.
Off-balance sheet exposure reflecting fluctuations in net HFT.
Most AFS government bonds decreased by 1.1 billion, mostly in the insurance and corporate were sold, and lending and derivatives exposure to non-bank sectors.
Government bond holdings were 14.0 billion AFS - 6.7 financial institutions fell by 0.5 billion.
Net derivatives billion: HFT long positions - 7.3 billion at the end of the year.
exposure to banks increased by 1.2 billion, driven by the acquisition of a fully cash-collateralised exposure from another bank.
unaudited 328 Business review Capital and risk management France - net balance sheet exposure rose by 2.2 billion to 16.1 China - lending to banks and off-balance sheet exposure decreased billion, mainly reflecting debt trading fluctuations and increased by 1.9 billion and 1.2 billion respectively to 0.7 billion and 0.5 derivatives exposure to banks and SFT.
Lending to the public, CRE billion, mostly in trade finance, driven by more stringent capital and telecommunications sectors decreased.
RBS had 6.8 billion requirements and an effort by RBS to improve average returns in a government bond holdings at 31 December 2014 AFS - 1.1 billion: highly competitive environment.
Given concerns about economic HFT long positions - 5.7 billion.
Off-balance exposure fell by 1.2 risks, RBS undertook stress testing across both financial institutions billion to 8.6 billion, particularly in the corporate and government and corporate portfolios and started setting early warning indicators sectors.
Netherlands - net balance sheet exposure fell by 1.2 billion to India - net balance sheet exposure fell by 1.7 billion to 2.0 billion, 14.7 billion, as a result of reductions in AFS debt securities in the with reductions in corporate lending, particularly in the oil and gas RBS N. V. liquidity portfolio and in cash deposits held with the central and mining and metals sectors, and in lending to banks, largely bank, as RBS N. V. 's liquidity needs decreased in line with balance trade finance.
The reductions in part reflected increasing capital sheet reductions.
Net HFT exposure rose by 1.7 billion through requirements and sales of low-yielding assets.
normal market fluctuations while derivatives exposure increased by 1.1 billion to 6.8 billion, largely driven by business with a few Russia - net balance sheet exposure was 1.8 billion and included major banks.
0.9 billion of corporate lending and 0.7 billion of bank lending, around half of which was fully hedged.
Internal ratings were Belgium - net balance sheet exposure increased by 0.8 billion to reviewed, additional credit restrictions placed on new business, and 3.6 billion, mostly in HFT government bonds and derivatives limits adjusted downwards.
Exposures were reviewed against all exposure to banks.
Other eurozone - net HFT government bonds increased by 0.6 South Korea - net lending to banks and corporate clients decreased billion to 0.9 billion, reflecting increased long positions.
by 0.4 billion, reflecting a greater focus on capital efficiency.
Net balance sheet exposure was 1.3 billion.
Japan - HFT government bond exposure increased by 3.2 billion to 3.0 billion, driven by market fluctuations.
This rise was partly offset Turkey - net balance sheet exposure fell by 0.4 billion to 1.2 by reductions in central bank deposits, in corporate and bank billion, mainly reflecting lower lending to corporates.
lending, and in derivatives and SFT exposure to financial institutions.
In 2015, RBS will be closing its onshore trading Shipping - exposures relating to ocean-going vessels are not business and withdrawing from Japanese government primary included in the country risk disclosures as they cannot be bonds dealership activity.
meaningfully assigned to specific countries.
RBSs shipping portfolio of 10.4 billion refer to the Credit risk section on page 247 for more details is predominantly US dollar-denominated and under English law, and is not expected to be affected by specific country events.
unaudited 329 Business review Capital and risk management Other risks 331 Pension risk 332 Business risk 333 Strategic risk 330 Business review Capital and risk management Other risks The Pension Risk Committee PRC, acting as a sub-committee of the Pension risk RBS Asset and Liability Committee, formulates RBSs view of pension Definition risk.
The PRC considers mechanisms that could potentially be used for Pension risk is the risk arising from contractual or other obligations to, or managing risk within the funds as well as financial strategy and employee with respect to, RBSs pension schemes, whether established for its welfare implications, and also reviews actuarial assumptions from a employees or for those of a related company.
It is also the risk that RBS sponsor perspective as appropriate.
The PRC is a key component of may make payments or other contributions to, or with respect to, a RBSs approach to pension risk where risk management, asset strategy pension scheme because of a moral obligation, or for any other reason.
and financing issues are reviewed and monitored on behalf of RBS.
The PRC also serves as a formal link between RBS, RIEL and the trustee.
Sources of risk RBS has exposure to pension risk through its defined benefit schemes For further information on risk governance, refer to page 176. worldwide.
The five largest schemes, which represent around 96% of the banks pension liabilities, are the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Risk appetite and monitoring Fund Main scheme, the Ulster Bank Pension Scheme Republic of Investment policy for the schemes is defined by the trustee with Ireland, the Ulster Bank Pension Scheme, the Royal Bank of Scotland quantitative and qualitative input from RIEL and other specialist advisers Americas Pension Plan and the Royal Bank of Scotland International employed by the trustee.
While the trustee is responsible for the Pension Trust.
The Main scheme is the principal source of pension risk.
management of the scheme assets, it consults with RBS on material changes to risk appetite and investment policy.
Pension scheme liabilities vary with changes in long-term interest rates and inflation as well as with pensionable salaries, the longevity of scheme As the sponsor of its defined benefit pension schemes, RBS manages members, and legislation.
Meanwhile, pension scheme assets vary with the risk it faces using a pension risk management framework.
This changes in interest rates, inflation expectations, credit spreads, exchange encompasses risk monitoring, modelling, stress testing and reporting.
As rates and equity and property prices.
RBS is exposed to the risk that the sponsor, RBS maintains an independent view of the risk inherent in its schemes assets together with future returns and any additional future pension funds.
In addition to the scrutiny provided by the PRC, RBS also contributions are insufficient to meet liabilities as they fall due.
In such achieves this through regular pension risk monitoring and reporting to the circumstances, it could be obliged or might choose to make additional Board, the Executive Committee and the Board Risk Committee on the contributions to the schemes or be required to hold additional capital to material pension schemes that RBS has an obligation to support.
agreement is not reached between RBS and the trustee, the Pensions Regulator can take action by appointing independent trustees, or by Key developments in 2014 serving a contribution notice on the employer requiring payment to the The 31 March 2013 triennial funding valuation of the Main scheme was scheme.
It showed the value of liabilities exceeded the value of assets by 5.6 billion at the valuation date, a ratio of assets to liabilities Risk mitigation of 82%.
RBS and the trustee agreed a plan to fund the Main scheme.
To The trustee has taken measures to mitigate inflation and interest rate eliminate this deficit, RBS agreed to pay additional contributions from risks both by investing in suitable physical assets and by entering into 2014 until 2023.
Contributions will start at 650 million in 2014 to 2016 inflation and interest rate swaps.
The Main scheme also uses derivatives and will fall to 450 million indexed in line with inflation for the period to manage the allocation of the portfolio to different asset classes and to 2017 to 2023.
These contributions are in addition to regular annual manage risk within asset classes.
The assets of the Main scheme, which contributions of around 270 million for ongoing accrual of benefits as represented 88% of RBSs pension plan assets at 31 December 2014, well as contributions to meet the expenses of running the scheme.
The are invested in a diversified portfolio of quoted and private equity, agreed deficit payments supersede all previous schedules of government and corporate fixed interest and index-linked bonds, property contributions.
Throughout 2014, various pension risk stress-testing initiatives were Risk is also mitigated in other ways.
In October 2006, the Main scheme undertaken, focused both on internally defined scenarios and on was closed to new employees.
In November 2009, RBS confirmed that it scenarios to meet integrated Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and was making changes to the Main scheme and a number of other defined European Banking Authority EBA stress testing requirements.
For more benefit schemes, including the introduction of a limit of 2% per annum or information on stress testing, refer to page 199. the annual change in the Consumer Price Index, if lower to the amount of any salary increase that will count for pensionable purposes.
Governance The Main scheme operates under a trust deed.
The corporate trustee, In October 2012, RBS confirmed that it was offering employees in the RBS Pension Trustee Limited, is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Royal Main scheme the choice between an increase to the charge, made Bank of Scotland plc.
The trustee board currently comprises six directors through its flexible benefits programme, of 5% of salaries and an increase selected by RBS and four directors nominated by members.
The trustee in Normal Pension Age from 60 to 65 in respect of service from October is supported by RBS Investment Executive Ltd RIEL, a team 2012 with no additional charge.
specialising in pension investment and risk management.
unaudited 331 Business review Capital and risk management Other risks continued Pension stress tests take the form of both stochastic one that cannot be Risk measurement predicted precisely and deterministic stresses over time horizons from Pension risk reporting is submitted monthly to the Board in the RBS Risk one to five years in duration.
They are designed to examine the Monthly Management Report.
The report includes a measurement of the behaviour of the pension schemes assets and liabilities under a range of overall deficit or surplus position based on the latest data and estimated financial and demographic shocks.
The results of the stress tests and capital requirements, and an assessment of the sensitivities of the their consequential impact on RBSs balance sheet, income statement pension schemes to interest rates, inflation and credit spreads.
and capital position are incorporated into the overall enterprise-wide stress test results.
RBS also undertakes a number of stress tests and scenario analyses on The table below shows the sensitivity of the Main schemes assets and its material defined benefit pension schemes each year as part of its risk liabilities measured according to IAS 19 Employee Benefits to changes measurement framework.
These stress tests are also used to satisfy the in interest rates and equity values at the year end, taking account of the requests of regulatory bodies such as the EBA and the PRA.
The stress current asset allocation and hedging arrangements.
testing framework includes the production of the pension risk internal capital adequacy assessment process as well as additional stress tests for a number of internal management purposes.
Change Change Change in net in value in value of pension of assets liabilities obligations m m m At 31 December 2014 Fall in nominal swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or real swap yields 447 413 34 Fall in real swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or nominal swap yields 932 1,159 227 Fall in credit spreads of 0.25% at all durations with no change in nominal or real swap yields 65 1,581 1,516 Fall in equity values of 10% 771 771 At 31 December 2013 Fall in nominal swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or real swap yields 217 333 116 Fall in real swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or nominal swap yields 595 895 300 Fall in credit spreads of 0.25% at all durations with no change in nominal or real swap yields 60 1,245 1,185 Fall in equity values of 10% 894 894 At 31 December 2012 Fall in nominal swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or real swap yields 76 255 179 Fall in real swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or nominal swap yields 578 995 417 Fall in credit spreads of 0.25% at all durations with no change in nominal or real swap yields 71 1,261 1,190 Fall in equity values of 10% 862 862 Business risk Key developments in 2014 Definition RBS reduced its business risk profile as it curtailed riskier activities in Business risk is the risk that RBS suffers losses as a result of adverse CIB, made disposals through RCR, and announced an intensified cost variances in its revenues, costs or both as a result of its business plan management programme.
Such variances may be caused by a variety of specific factors such as volatility in pricing, sales volumes, and input costs as well An increase in regulatory scrutiny of the industrys approach to stress as more general factors such as exposure to macroeconomic, regulatory testing affected the management of business risk in 2014.
stress testing was undertaken in response, and scenario modelling capability was enhanced further.
In the US, CFG strengthened its capital Sources of risk planning capabilities following the Federal Reserves Comprehensive Business risk exists at all levels of the organisation and is generated at Capital and Analysis and Review stress test.
It is affected by other risks RBS faces, which could contribute to any adverse changes in revenues or costs.
Refer to page 171 for a full list of risks.
unaudited 332 Business review Capital and risk management Governance Risk measurement The Board has ultimate responsibility for business risk.
Refer to the Risk The stress test outcomes form a core part of the assessment of earnings governance section on page 176. and capital adequacy risk appetite and are approved by the Board.
The measurement of change in profit and loss of the franchises under stress Responsibility for the day-to-day management of business risk lies thereby acts as a measure of business risk.
Franchises also conduct their primarily with the franchises with oversight by the Finance function.
The own bottom-up stress testing exercises to assess the financial franchises are responsible for delivery of their business plans and the performance of their businesses under stress.
management of such factors as pricing, sales volumes, marketing expenditure and other factors that can introduce volatility into earnings.
Strategic risk Definition Risk appetite Strategic risk is the risk that RBS will make inappropriate strategic RBS assesses volatility in revenues and costs in determining whether choices, or that there will be changes in the external environment to RBS and its underlying businesses are within risk appetite.
Each which RBS fails to adapt its strategies.
franchise is responsible for the implementation of its business plan and the management of associated risks within approved risk appetite targets.
Sources of risk Strategic risk arises from decisions that fail to reflect the operating Risk identification and monitoring environment, or which do not take adequate account of execution Business risk is identified and managed at the product and transaction challenges.
These include decisions related to RBS products and level.
Estimated revenue and costs, including the potential range of services which have implications for profitability, risk, the customer base, outcomes, are key considerations in the design of any new product or and for business growth.
All policies that ultimately seek to manage and control financial impact at the product and transaction level are therefore Failure to manage this risk could have a wide-ranging impact.
It could relevant to business risk management, including policies on conduct, lower revenues, profitability and returns to shareholders, and severely funding and investment spending.
impair RBSs ability to meet other financial and non-financial objectives.
Business risk is reported, assessed and challenged at every governance Key developments in 2014 level within the organisation.
Each franchise monitors its revenues and RBS announced the results of a strategic review with a defined plan to costs relative to plans, reporting this on a regular basis to the finance shift the business mix towards the UK and the retail and commercial directors of each franchise and to bank-wide functions.
The Finance banking segments, with the aim of a lower risk profile for the bank.
function challenges financial results and reports performance against plan to the Board and executive committees, focusing on revenue The year saw good progress against this plan.
Business results in generation, cost management initiatives and risk mitigation.
general exceeded targets and the run-down and sell-off of non-core assets were ahead of schedule.
RBSs capital ratios increased markedly, Business risk is reviewed and assessed through RBSs planning cycles, a significant step towards targeted levels of financial strength which, which are discussed with RBS Risk Management, and performance when attained, will provide RBS with more strategic options.
There were improvements in the monitoring processes with a focus on In the planning cycles, expected and potential scenarios for revenues and the Top Risks that could prevent RBS achieving its strategic objectives.
costs are determined, on a bottom-up basis, through plans reflecting expectations of the external environment and the banks strategic Governance priorities.
These scenarios are tested against a range of sensitivities and RBSs strategic planning process is managed by the Strategy and stresses to identify the key risk drivers behind any potential volatility, Corporate Development team.
The Risk and Finance functions are key together with management actions to address and manage them.
As part of the process, each customer business develops a strategic plan for its business within a framework set Risk mitigation by the banks senior management.
The strategic plans are consolidated RBS operates a forecasting process to identify projected changes in, or at bank-wide level, and reviewed and assessed against risk appetite by risks to, key financial metrics, and ensures appropriate actions are taken.
the CEO, the CFO and the banks Director of Strategy and Corporate RBS responded to business risk challenges by designing cost Finance before presentation to and approval by the Board.
management programmes to deliver substantial savings in 2014 and beyond.
RBS Risk Management was also involved in these discussions.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for approving strategic plans, initiatives and changes to strategic direction.
In addition to the annual cycle, each customer business presents a more detailed individual deep dive review of key dimensions of its strategy at a Board meeting at different points during the year.
unaudited 333 Business review Capital and risk management Other risks continued Risk mitigation Risk appetite and identification A major part of the top risks process is to ensure that all appropriate Strategic plans are assessed against, and must comply with, RBSs action is taken to mitigate the most material risks to strategic objectives.
strategic risk objectives refer to Risk appetite section, page 180.
These objectives are intended to ensure that RBSs chosen strategies do not Key strategies are reviewed and approved by the Board.
These reviews expose it to an inappropriate degree of financial and non-financial risk.
are intended to maximise the capture of market and customer insight These therefore represent the appetite for strategic risk.
while providing independent scrutiny and challenge.
Strategic plans contain analysis of current and expected operating conditions, current RBS employs robust strategy development processes which consider the and targeted competitive and market positioning, key strategic initiatives, implications of economic, industrial, market, technological and customer financial and customer targets and milestones, and upside and downside developments and trends.
RBS Risk Management is involved in defining risks.
risk appetite for the customer businesses, and in challenging and reviewing strategic plans.
A full sensitivity analysis of the consolidated strategic plan is undertaken, at the end of the strategic and financial planning process, to assess the In addition, there are top risks and emerging risks processes in place robustness of the plan, and compliance with strategic risk objectives, which aim to identify early, monitor closely and avoid or otherwise under a variety of stressed conditions.
In certain cases, following manage effectively strategic risks that have the highest likelihood of consideration of an opportunity, RBS may decide not to pursue the impacting strategic plans.
opportunity as a result of a perceived strategic risk.
Risk monitoring RBS also undertakes strategic reviews to decide how to react to specific Top and emerging risks processes monitor the most material risks to developments.
It is now considering, for instance, how best to react to the strategic objectives.
Strategic progress is monitored through quarterly Independent Commission on Bankings proposals for ring-fencing of retail performance review meetings between customer business CEOs and the banking operations.
RBS CEO, CFO, and Director of Strategy and Corporate finance.
Risk measurement Individual customer businesses bear much of the responsibility for A wide variety of financial, risk, customer and market metrics are used to managing strategic risks.
The senior leadership of the customer monitor business performance and thus, inter alia, the effectiveness of businesses track progress on the initiatives and action plans to deliver chosen strategies.
Any deviations from the expected values are analysed the strategy through a range of key performance indicators such as to determine drivers which could be strategic, environmental or financial performance, risk metrics, market shares and numbers of management.
Example metrics include: customer attrition: deposit customers, and satisfaction scores.
balances: revenues: impairments or loan losses: profitability: and riskweighted returns.
