36 Risk overview Capital developments EBA and Bank of England BoE stress test operating model was implemented to RBS continued to make good progress in results published in the second half of 2014: embed standardisation and consistency reducing risk and strengthening its capital of approach to the management of EBA: 2016 CET1 ratio based on 2013 position.
The Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 operational risk.
Significant investments accounts under the modelled EBA ratio improved by 260 basis points to 11.2% were made to improve technology adverse scenario was 5.7%, marginally and the leverage ratio by 80 basis points to resilience for core banking services.
In above the minimum requirement of 5.5%.
addition, enhancements were made to BoE: CET1 ratio under the hypothetical cyber security programmes.
The key factors were: BoE adverse scenario was 4.6% at the RCR disposals and run-off in 2014 which Liquidity: A strong liquidity position was end of 2016, slightly above the 4.5% postled to a reduction in funded assets of 14 maintained, with a liquidity portfolio of stress minimum ratio threshold set by the billion and in risk-weighted asset equivalent 151 billion at the end of 2014 covering BoE.
After taking account of management of 38 billion 58% of the RCR start point.
short-term and total wholesale funding by actions, the adjusted ratio was 5.2%.
RCR was established with effect from factors of over five and 1.5 respectively.
1 January 2014 to remove risk from the Liquidity coverage ratio was 112% and the Other risk developments balance sheet, reduce volatile outcomes net stable funding ratio was 121% at the Conduct, regulatory, litigation and in stressed environments and to accelerate end of 2014. reputational risk: RBS continued to be the release of capital over a three year affected by conduct issues.
Litigation and Credit risk: 2014 saw a net release of period.
conduct costs, including those relating 1.2 billion of impairment provisions, A 40 billion reduction in CIBs riskto Payment Protection Insurance, Interest principally in RCR and Ulster Bank weighted assets RWAs, including an Rate Hedging Products, London Interbank reflecting sustained improvements in orderly run-down of US asset-backed Offered Rate LIBOR, US mortgage economic and asset market conditions product business.
securitisations and foreign exchange in the UK and Ireland.
RBS continued to Disposal of 9 billion of legacy availabletrading, have exceeded 9 billion since reduce its risk concentrations, notably for-sale securities, thereby reducing 2011 and continued to demand significant in commercial real estate and eurozone stressed capital and RWAs.
RBS still has Operational risk: RBSs ongoing Despite these and other risk reduction substantial credit risk exposures with transformation is complex and widemeasures, RBSs capital position was close to credit risk RWAs of 295 billion compared ranging, affecting all business areas thresholds under adverse stress scenarios, as with 357 billion at the end of 2013, a and functions.
In 2014, a new functional evidenced by the European Banking Authority 17% reduction.
37 Risk overview Market risk: RBSs traded market risk at that time, the deficit may rise further at planning.
To mitigate the risks, a largeprofile decreased significantly, with the next valuation in 2016.
To limit pension scale programme to improve user access market risk limits being reduced across risk, defined benefit pension schemes have controls is in place.
Action has also been all businesses.
Average trading VaR been closed to new members since 2006 taken to reduce the number of external decreasing to 27.8 million, 35% of the and terms for existing members have been websites and tighten management of them, 2013 average.
Market risk RWAs also altered in recent years.
to strengthen anti-virus protections, and to decreased by 6.3 billion to 24 billion.
continue the staff education programme on The impact of the 2015 UK general election information protection.
Country risk: RBS maintained a cautious on performance and strategy: Ahead of the stance as many clients continued to reduce upcoming UK election in May 2015, there Failure of information technology systems: debt levels.
Total eurozone periphery net is uncertainty around how the policies of RBSs information technology systems balance sheet exposure decreased by a newly elected government may affect may be subject to failure.
As such 10 billion or 25% to 31 billion.
The implementation of new policies systems are complex, recovering from exposure to Greece was 0.4 billion but could significantly affect the operating failure is challenging.
To mitigate these only 120 million after taking into account employment environment and the fiscal, risks, a major investment programme has collateral and guarantees.
monetary, legal and regulatory landscape.
significantly improved the resilience of the systems and more benefits are expected.
Pension risk: The triennial actuarial funding Back-up system sustainability has Conduct, litigation and reputational risk valuation of the main scheme, agreed in improved, and a shadow bank system, Risks to income, costs and business May 2014, showed the value of liabilities to provide basic services, if needed, has models arising from regulatory exceeded the value of assets by been created.
requirements: RBS is exposed to the 5.6 billion at 31 March 2013, a ratio of risk of further increases in regulatory assets to liabilities of 82%.
To eliminate this Increased losses arising from a failure to capital requirements as well as risks deficit, RBS has agreed to pay additional execute major projects successfully: The related to new regulations that could contributions: 650 million from 2014 to successful execution of major projects, affect its business models.
Regulatory 2016 and 450 million indexed for inflation including the transformation plan, the intervention may result from a competition from 2017 to 2023.
These contributions are recently announced restructuring of review of the personal current account in addition to regular annual contributions CIB and the divestment of Williams and small business banking markets: of around 270 million.
& Glyn, is essential to meet RBSs the ring-fencing proposals from the strategic objectives.
These projects Independent Commission on Banking or cover organisational structure, business Top and emerging risk scenarios failure to implement the Basel Committee strategy, information technology systems, A number of top and emerging risk scenarios on Banking Supervisions Risk Data operational processes and product attracted particular attention.
RBS is working to implement considers the implications of proposed change in line with its project plans while or potential regulatory requirements in its Macro-economic and other external risks assessing the risks to implementation and strategic and financial plans.
Risks related to the macro-economy: taking steps to mitigate those risks where A number of scenarios could have a possible.
The impacts of past business conduct: significant negative impact on RBSs Future conduct and litigation charges Inability to recruit or retain suitable staff: revenues and impairments, including a could be substantial.
RBS is involved RBS is going through a period of strategic recession in the UK or any of the other in ongoing class action litigation, and organisational change, leading to the major markets in which RBS operates, securitisation and mortgage-backed need to implement new business strategies large falls in UK or Irish property prices, securities related litigation, investigations to respond to a changing external oil prices, a resumption of the eurozone into foreign exchange trading and rateenvironment.
Strong competition for staff crisis, global deflation or major geopolitical setting activities, continuing LIBOR related from peers, the impact of remuneration instability.
To mitigate these risks, capital, litigation and investigations, anti-money regulations, and the implications of the new liquidity and leverage ratios have been laundering, sanctions, mis-selling and Bank of England Senior Managers Regime strengthened, and some higher risk and compliance related investigations as well may contribute to this risk.
capital intensive portfolios have been as a number of other matters.
in relation to foreign exchange may result A full description of the principal risks facing in additional financial, non-monetary An increase in obligations to support RBS is set out on pages 474 to 492. penalties and collateral consequences, pension schemes: If economic growth which may be material.
RBS is embarking stagnates, and interest rates remain low, on a programme to embed a strong and the value of pension scheme assets may comprehensive risk and compliance not be adequate to fund the pension culture.
The deficit in RBS pension schemes as determined by Risk related to RBSs operations the most recent triennial valuations has increased, requiring RBS to increase its Impact of Cyber attacks: Cyber attacks current and future cash contributions to the are increasing in frequency and severity schemes as noted above.
Depending on across the industry.
RBS has participated For further the economic and monetary conditions and in industry-wide cyber attack simulations information 168-334 see pages longevity of scheme members prevailing in order to help test and develop defence
