44 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR RISK Risk MANAGEMENT IN PRACTICE management 1.
MA JOR EVENT ROOT CAUSE ANALYSIS The Group Risk team use a cause event risk map to identify the root causes of material risk events and learn the lessons from them.
This goes beyond identifying process failures and traces further back to identify the underlying The future success of the Group internal management causes of is underpinned by our conservative leadership behaviour and reporting lines.
The major event root cause analysis process helps to embed learnings across the organisation to ensure that similar events do not reoccur.
CULTURAL HEALTH INDEX The Group Risk and HR teams worked together to create an index of positive and negative indicators to help senior leaders RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH PRINCIPLES spot the early warning signs of We take a broad view of the scope Simple objectives cultural risk.
of risk management, which is taken Create value for all stakeholders The index is based around to include the risk of underperformance Focus on general insurance the levers that determine as well as adverse events and the in our selected markets culture, including leadership, failure of processes.
Commitment to sustainable, communication, and decision making.
The index is brought to risk appetite statement and key risk life through a quarterly process indicators, which cover all aspects Clear risk appetite which involves senior HR, Audit of our strategic objectives.
The risk Underwriting and operating and Risk leaders working together appetite statement is updated annually excellence to discuss their assessments in line with the strategic review.
It is on the health of the culture Strong control environment supported by more granular portfolio and agree mitigating actions.
strategy statements for each of our Importantly, the index and underwriting portfolios, setting out Protecting and managing the process gives people the language our preferred segments and products Groups reputation.
to name the behaviours that they as well as those that are outside the may intuitively feel, a permission core appetite.
Robust governance, control and reporting for ensuring these conversations The Board is closely involved in risk Comprehensive policies, procedures take place regularly.
management via the Board Risk and controls Committee which meets quarterly Clear delegation of authorities see pages 73 to 74.
The quarterly risk reports monitor the status of Robust lines of defence all risks and forms an integral part Regular and relevant reporting of our ORSA process.
More detail on how we manage different types of risk is set out in pages 137 to 150.
45 RISK STRATEGY AND SUMMARY RISK APPETITE RSA GROUP STRATEGY AND ACTION PLAN 1.
Ti ghten strategic focus of the Group Serve Customers Well 2.
Re set the quality and quantity of capital strength Operate with Capital Strength 3.
Im prove business performance and capability to sustain it Focus on driving shareholder value RISK APPETITE SUMMARY KEY RISK STRATEGIES Capital Surplus: Financial Risks Capital Risk: with credit rating exposures Economic, Regulatory Exposures remain within Strong discipline laddered from AAA to and S&P Coverage Ratios in capital planning Aand only limited above determined levels by asset class, single exposure below Insurance Risk: and buffers counterparties, balance Varied risk mix of insurance Liquidity Risk: sheet FX exposure, Insurance Risk business: with volume and Substantial proportion asset-liability matching Risk mix strategy clearly mix effectively managed of assets are highly liquid Operational Risk: level with rigorous risk Operational: segments of special high selection risk business e. g. Terrorism, operational control reputational impacts from Rigorous underwriting Nuclear, Inwards Re environment any operational loss event and claims control with Strong insurance risk including IT appropriate pricing Pension Risk management disciplines sophistication Cautious asset allocation and investment Special High Risk business strategy Effective business management policies within Well reserved recovery processes pension schemes Group Underwriting Director Ensuring delivery of change Market Risk: and Group COO and within Reputational Risk: Cautious asset allocation set limits Proactive management High performing people, and investment Per event catastrophe of reputational risk with disciplined culture management policies reinsurance limits to be set at key focus on Serving with limited exposure to no less than 1 in 200 year Reputation: customers well higher volatility asset types return period e. g. 1.6bn for e. g. equities or to balance UK Europe, supported by RSAs Reputation, including sheet forex volatility strong exposure control with Customers, Business Asset Liability duration Retentions in 2015: 50m per Partners, Regulators, matching with some limited Property risk, 15m for Investors or in the Media Marine, 50m C$50m per management Catastrophe ex UK, 75m for UK Catastrophe, subject to Credit Risk: group aggregate cover with Cautious credit risk policies: a 180m excess.
OUR RISK MANAGEMENT related to Ireland was weakened due This programme has enhanced control IN PRACTICE: REVIEW OF to independent controls not operating and assurance processes across eight INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM effectively.
key functions in our business.
This involved improving the clarity of our irregularities in its Irish business.
risk policies, as well as advancing the is built on the good market practice Following these an independent review organisations understanding of the of three lines of defence, is designed by PWC was commissioned to satisfy control framework and how the three to have multiple reinforcing layers with the Board and shareholders that the lines of defence operate.
We have made a comprehensive network of policies, problems in Ireland were not to be explicit the minimum requirements clear accountability including through found elsewhere in the Group.
expected in each business with regard In January 2014, the results of the PWC of business controls and a range checking that must take place.
This described of additional assurance processes.
We have also strengthened our second the Group System of Governance, which This notwithstanding, the Group line assurance processes that are includes the Control Framework, as Audit Committee and Board Risk appropriate in terms of structure and Committee Chairmen set up a Global management.
We have restructured design for an international insurance programme, led by the Group Risk our Group and Regional Risk teams group of RSAs size and complexity, and function, to enhance the effectiveness to make sure there is focus on both elements of its design compare of the Internal Control System.
enterprise risk management and favourably across the market.
The oversight of the internal control effectiveness of the framework as it framework.
B 1 8 % % 5 6 A 46 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP STRATEGIC RISK PROFILE Very High 03 04 50m 10 07 07 06 08 01 High 05 02 30-50m 08 09 Medium 20-30m Low 10-20m Very Low 10m 1 in 200 years 1 in 10 years 1 in 3 years 1 in 2 years Will happen or 0.5% or 10-33% or 33-50% or 50-95% this year or 95% Probability Probability Probability Probability Probability GROUP STRATEGIC RISK PROFILE DISTRIBUTION OF QUANTIFIABLE RISKS schemes we have progressively Our internal model provides a reduced risk over a number of years of risk since previous report of risk borne by the Group, expressed fide-risking actions: however, as the amount of capital required due to the large size of the schemes to enable it to meet all liabilities to relative to the business, they still pr e sent a m at er ial ex p os ure, currently the Groups target A rating.
exacerbated by the economic environment producing a prolonged period of low real-yields.
model, we can assess the extent to which the overall level of risk is attributable to broad categories of risk.
Consistent with our strategy and ECONOMIC CAPITAL BY TYPE OF RISK A Insurance Risk appetite, the majority of the Groups B Investment Risk risks relate to insurance, comprising C Operational Risk higher than anticipated underwriting D Pension Risk losses, net catastrophe losses and reserve deterioration.
Our conservative investment strategy means that investment risk forms a relatively small proportion of our overall risk compared with the industry.
This and currency and other exposures in our insurance operations.
% 9 D % 8 C Impact 47 Likelihood Risk ID Owner Risk Description Controls key mitigants actions change in year Impact of negative long-term macroH ig h q ualit y, l o wri sk investment strategy and portfolio 01 volatility and or persistent low yields, Pension fide-risking actions taken, and ongoing R Houghton including impact on pension scheme Trustee dialogue on future action position particularly of low real yields Tactical actions to mitigate reduction in yields Defensive positioning to challenged Eurozone economies Systemic failure in, or obsolescence Granular MI on rating and claims trends of, pricing, underwriting and claims Underwriting strategy statements, licence and controls 02 processes D Coughlan and pricing tools Quarterly Business Reviews and BRC governance Accumulation management and large loss review actions fide liv er y of UK s trateg y a n d other regions operational plans medium term to support dividend and Capital and risk reduction actions taken in Q1 2014 and 03 strategy or to cover any increase in ongoing business review including disposals R Houghton capital requirement M&A moratorium Regional CEOs Achieving Internal Model approval RSA fails to secure Solvency II internal Ongoing dialogue with regulators to resolve questions N A model approval, all or in part, by Q4 2015, Model governance and validation processes 04 resulting in a requirement to enter SII Maintain core Solvency II programme R Houghton regime on a Standard formula basis for a Continue to work with local teams to deliver D Weymouth material additional capital requirement Group and local Internal Model Approval work plan P Bergander Failure of reward systems to align Remuneration committee governance with corporate aspirations and external Review of remuneration system 05 stakeholder expectations Investor and media relations V Evans Failure to align shareholder expectations Robust strategic and operational planning processes D e livery of o pera tio n al pl an s 06 performance Robust management of underperforming businesses R Houghton Management of corporate governance requirements Regional CEOs Investor and media relations Further restrictions on fungibility Internal dividend policy of capital following tighter regulatory 07 measures Regulatory dialogue and clarity from PRA on UK targets R Houghton Failure to deliver on the IS transformation Programme is made up of small, incremental investments programme, including stability issues or Commenced uplift of regional capability and recruitment 08 business disruption during of new IT Leaders D Price implementation Implemented a transparent governance and assurance model partner selection and contracting and benchmarked by advisors Better alignment and joint ownership of execution with the business across all regions Failure to create and sustain a culture and Retention strategies targeted at key senior leaders working environment that engages, and critical skill 09 attracts and retains diverse and talented Market mapping of key areas to develop talent V Evans staff with appropriate capabilities and and succession pipeline Regional CEOs experience to deliver the Group strategy Engaging our people in the Group strategic narrative People expectations roll-out as part of Brand refresh Failure of reinsurance programme Board, Exco and BRC governance Re in su rance r e co five ry p ro cesses 10 e. g. counterparty failure, operational Group-wide reinsurance placement management D Coughlan error or failed recovery processes Reinsurance Security controls and processes Our 2014 Strategic Report, from page 2 to page 47, has been reviewed and approved by the Board of directors on 25 February 2015 STEPHEN HESTER Group Chief Executive
