Key risks and mitigations Integrity and good conduct are central to our culture and approach to risk management.
This section explains how we control and manage The Chief Executive and the GMC, as the principal the risks in our business.
It outlines key risks, how executive committee with responsibility for the we mitigate them and our assessment of their monitoring and reporting of risk and controls, potential impact on our business in the context review regularly the key risks facing the Group.
The executive oversight of risk is delegated by Managing risk the Chief Executive to the Chief Financial Officer.
The Board is accountable for risk and the oversight The Chief Financial Officer has responsibility for We recently appointed a new of the risk management process.
It considers the the risk and control framework of the Group and Group Head of Risk.
Group most significant risks facing the Group and uses the independent monitoring and reporting of risks Risk is a critical second line quantitative exposure measures, such as stress tests, and controls.
of defence in managing where appropriate.
Non-executive oversight of the risk and mitigating risks across management process is exercised through the Audit The Chief Financial Officer is supported by the Group our business.
and Risk Committee with respect to standards of Head of Risk and chairs the Group Risk Committee integrity, financial reporting, risk management and GRC, which meets ten times a year, and more internal control.
frequently if required, and is attended by the heads of the control functions, being Group Risk, Finance, It is the responsibility of all employees to uphold the Compliance, Legal and Internal Audit, the Chief control culture of Schroders.
We therefore embed Operating Officer, the Head of Investment and senior risk management within all areas of the business.
managers from Distribution and Wealth Management.
Members of the GMC have risk management The GRC supports the Chief Financial Officer and the responsibility for their respective business areas and GMC in discharging their risk responsibilities.
The we expect individual behaviours to mirror the culture GRC reviews and monitors the adequacy and and core values of the firm.
effectiveness of the Groups risk management Lines of defence Overview th 4 Line: External independent assurance Three lines of defence rd 3 Line: Internal independent assurance Group Group Audit nd 2 Line: Control and oversight functions Risk Management and Risk Committee Committee Committee st 1 Line: Business operations and support 32 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Our Compliance team forms part of our second line of defence against undesirable outcomes.
The compliance monitoring programme reviews the effective operation of our processes in meeting regulatory requirements.
framework, including relevant policies and limits.
2014 developments It also reviews trends and exceptions in the most Upholding high standards of conduct and focusing significant risk exposures.
The GRC and the newly on clients interests and outcomes is fundamental formed Wealth Management Audit and Risk to our business.
We have reviewed and formalised Committee receive reports in respect of risk from our approach in this regard, taking into account the the Wealth Management Executive Committee.
increasing expectations of clients and regulators.
We have also taken steps to enhance our client-centric Lines of defence processes and communications, building on our The first line of defence against undesirable established culture and values.
outcomes is the business function and the respective line managers, across Investment, Distribution, Wealth In 2013, we implemented a new operational risk Management and Infrastructure.
Business heads system to support our firm-wide risk and control take the lead role with respect to implementing and assessments and in 2014 we continued to invest maintaining appropriate controls.
Line management in technology to enhance our risk management is supplemented by oversight functions, such as capabilities and manage our investment risks.
Group Risk, Finance, Compliance and Legal, which constitute the second line of defence.
The compliance Information security has been an area of specific monitoring programme reviews the effective operation attention in response to the increasing prevalence of our processes in meeting regulatory requirements.
of cyber-crime and related fraud within our industry.
Group Internal Audit provides retrospective, Following the integration of Cazenove Capital, our independent assurance over the operation of controls Wealth Management division is now substantially and is the third line of defence.
In recognition of this, we established a separate programme includes reviews of risk management Wealth Management Audit and Risk Committee processes and recommendations to improve the which provides reports to the Board Audit and Risk control environment.
External reviews from the Committee, and provides non-executive oversight Groups auditors provide a fourth line of defence.
of the Wealth Management business.
Schroders also maintains comprehensive New instruments and strategies are important for insurance cover.
the growth of our business and we have continued to invest in investment risk management systems to reflect both the level of growth and the complexity of the strategies we use.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 Key risks and mitigations continued Mapping our key continuing risks 13 The key continuing risks outlined on pages 34 to 38 have been assessed in the light of the current environment as summarised 9 in the adjacent diagram.
11 3 12 4 10 2 8 The horizontal axis shows whether the risk is stable or heightened reflecting current market conditions.
The vertical axis shows the 1 potential financial impact to the firm.
The Group undertakes additional work to address those risks that it considers to be potentially heightened or more costly.
5 14 15 This year we have made the following changes to the presentation 6 of our key risks: A new category for Business risks has been included which sets 7 out the risks that are material to our business, but against which we are not required to hold regulatory capital: The Market, Investment Performance and Liquidity category has been renamed as Market, Credit and Liquidity risk: Risk stable Risk heightened Distribution risk, Geographical diversity risk and Conduct risk Risk have been renamed Business concentration risk, International business risk and Conduct and regulatory risk to align better to the nature of the risks presented: Integration risk has been removed as a key risk following the successful integration of Cazenove Capital: and Fraud risk has been separately identified given the growing focus on fraud prevention across financial services.
Fraud risk 4. Business concentration risk 13.
Technology and information 5. International business risk security risk 6.
People and employment 7. Credit risk practices risk 8.
Conduct and regulatory risk provider risk Reputational risk The reputation of Schroders is of paramount importance.
In the asset management industry, our reputation can be impacted by an adverse risk event of various types.
Key risk Description How we manage risk 1.
Reputational risk Reputational risk impacts Schroders brand, High standards of conduct and a principled approach to regulatory reliability and relationship with clients and compliance are integral to our culture and values.
This may arise from poor reputational risks when initiating changes in strategy or operating model.
conduct or judgements, or from negative financial or operational events as a result In addition, we have a number of controls and frameworks to of weaknesses in systems and controls.
address other risks that could affect our reputation including: conduct risk, financial crime, investment risk and client take-on Reputational risk may also arise from taking and product development.
on inappropriate client relationships or mandates which may have adverse implications for the Group.
34 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Costs Cost stable Cost increased Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Business risks Business risk can be influenced by both internal and external factors.
A risk can materialise due to suboptimal business execution or a failure to respond appropriately to internal or external factors.
Business risk can impact our earnings.
Key risk Description How we manage risk 2.
Investment The management of investment performance We have in place clearly defined investment processes designed performance risk risk is a core skill of the Group.
This is the risk to meet investment targets within stated risk parameters.
that portfolios will not meet their investment objectives or that there is a failure to deliver The Groups Investment Risk Framework provides review and consistent and above-average performance.
challenge of investment risks, independent of our fund managers, across all asset classes.
Individual portfolio performance, valuations and risk profiles are monitored by fund managers and asset class management on a regular basis, as well as by Pricing and Valuation Committees, Asset Class Risk Committees and the GMC.
Recognising that products will not outperform all of the time, we offer a diversified product set which reduces our dependence on the performance of any one fund or asset class.
Key to this performance is our ability to attract and retain talented people see People and employment practices risk for further information.
Product risk Product risk arises from product complexity To manage product risk we conduct quantitative analysis on a product and the risk that products do not meet by product basis to confirm that products are performing as expected their objectives.
and meeting the needs of our clients.
If the results do not meet our benchmarks, we assess the qualitative aspects and, if appropriate, the product strategy is reassessed.
New fund proposals are evaluated by the Product Development Committee which considers the risk management approach, potential investor profiles and distribution channel to ensure these are both suitable and commercially viable.
New investment propositions and strategies are reviewed by the Product Strategy Committee.
Product risk can also arise from capacity We monitor potential capacity constraints and may mitigate them constraints where the size of assets under by hard or soft closing products to new investment.
The Product management in a particular asset class or Development Committee considers the interests and needs of strategy makes it more difficult to trade potential investors in our funds.
4. Business Business concentration risk arises The broad range of distribution channels that we have established concentration risk from concentration in a small number mitigates the concentration risk we have and the dependency on any of distribution channels or products single sales channel.
No client accounts for more than two per cent.
or when a small number of clients are of revenues.
concentrated in a specific product or market.
We aim to ensure client concentrations in any particular market or channel do not become excessive.
5. International Our business is broadly diversified by region.
We aim to employ people with local expertise who ensure the business risk Whilst this mitigates our aggregate risk profile business and operations conform to local requirements as well it introduces additional risks in terms of as Group standards.
In addition, we seek the advice of local operating cross-border and in multiple experts for example, in the areas of tax, regulatory and legal environments as a result of complexity, where appropriate.
Furthermore, our employees are trained in local laws, regulations, business customs relation to local requirements and are able to share their knowledge and traditions.
through international secondments across the Group.
Our international operations are regularly reviewed by Internal Audit.
The GRC receives reports from line management regarding matters giving cause for concern and recommendations for appropriate remedial action.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 Key risks and mitigations continued Market, credit and liquidity risks We face market, credit and liquidity risks from movements in the financial markets in which we operate, arising from holding investments both as principal and agent.
Notes 20 and 21 to the accounts on pages 114 to 120 set out the Groups approach to the management of financial instrument risk including credit, liquidity and market risk, together with the Groups approach to hedging.
Key risk Description How we manage risk 6.
Market risk Market risk arises from market movements, Our , broad product range enables us to which can cause a fall in the value of principal provide clients with solutions in a variety of market conditions and investments and a decline in the value serves to diversify individual market dependencies.
of assets under management in the agency business.
The Group Capital Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, regularly reviews all principal assets held for investment or seed capital Operating capital, net fee income and purposes.
The Groups seed capital investments are usually hedged expenses related to the Groups overseas in respect of market risk and currency risk.
The Wealth Management subsidiaries are denominated in local Executive Committee monitors and manages market risk in the currencies and are therefore subject to Groups banking businesses.
We use forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate transactional and investment exposure to currency movements.
7. Credit risk We face credit risk as a result of counterparty To manage this risk we assess counterparty creditworthiness and set exposure with respect to client, principal appropriate limits for both our principal and agency counterparties.
The creditworthiness of the counterparties and borrowers are monitored as is usage against the relevant credit limits.
We seek to diversify our exposure across different counterparties.
We also face credit risk through Wealth In Wealth Management, we seek to mitigate credit risk within the Management lending activities, in addition lending activities as appropriate through collateralisation in the form to transactional counterparty risk.
of cash, portfolio investments or real estate.
Credit risk is monitored and managed against limits and collateral.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk in relation to client portfolios To mitigate this risk within client portfolios we seek to match, is the risk that funds are not readily available where possible, the liquidity of a portfolios underlying investments to meet redemptions or other obligations as with the anticipated redemption requirements.
We pay particular they arise.
attention when we offer funds with daily liquidity that the assets they hold are liquid.
We actively monitor markets for indicators of a decline in liquidity.
We also review products and portfolios to identify capacity constraints.
Liquidity risk is also the risk that the Group Each of our regulated subsidiaries, and the Group as a whole, meet or any of its subsidiaries cannot meet its regulatory capital requirements.
In addition, we maintain sufficient contractual or payment obligations in a liquidity for our anticipated needs, taking account of the risks we face.
In Wealth Management in London, we operate an Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA process.
36 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Operational risks Operational risk arises in our investment management and banking activities, distribution activities, product development and in our IT and operational infrastructure.
Line management is responsible for operational risk controls.
The second line of defence teams develop and deploy the risk framework and monitor its implementation and operation.
Key risk Description How we manage risk 9.
Conduct and The risks of client detriment arising from We promote a strong compliance culture and we value good regulatory risk inappropriate conduct, practice or behaviour relationships with our regulators.
Our Compliance function and failing to meet client needs, interests or supports management in identifying and meeting our regulatory expected outcomes.
obligations with relevant training and procedures.
Compliance with relevant regulatory requirements is monitored in accordance with The risks of money laundering, bribery, fraud a risk-based programme.
or market abuse shortcomings on the part of fund investors, clients or our employees.
Our approach to encouraging appropriate conduct is set out in our conduct risk framework, and is built on culture and values, supported The risk of fines, penalties, censure or other by appropriate governance and reporting.
This includes: sanctions arising from failure to identify or A culture in which all employees are encouraged and supported meet regulatory requirements.
to do the right thing: A long-term approach to creating value and good outcomes The risk that new regulation or changes to for our clients, fund investors and shareholders: existing interpretation has a material effect A focus on products that meet the needs of our clients on the Groups operations or cost base.
and investors: and Strong controls, governance, training and risk management processes.
Regulatory and legal change is monitored by the compliance, legal and public policy teams.
Key regulatory and tax risks are identified on page 39.
We engage with our regulators and participate in representative industry organisations so that we are informed about, and involved in, potential changes.
Legal risk The risk that Schroders or its counterparties, We rely on our employees, with support from our Legal function, clients or suppliers with whom we contract fail to consider the obligations we assume across the Group and our to meet their legal obligations and the risk of compliance with them.
Our policies and procedures across the legal proceedings and loss.
Group are developed having regard to recognised legal risks.
The risk that client expectations and Confirmations are obtained from representatives around the Group obligations with respect to our own and that actual or potential disputes or claims have been brought promptly third-party responsibilities under investment to the attention of the General Counsel.
management and other agreements will not be met, with a revenue or contingent We have an escalation process for areas of identified material risk.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 Key risks and mitigations continued Operational risks continued Key risk Description How we manage risk 11.
Process risk The risk of failure of significant business Risk and Control Assessments are used to identify and assess key processes, including for example mandate operational risks.
Associated controls are assessed with regard to compliance, client suitability checks and their design and performance.
Where required, processes and asset pricing.
controls are enhanced to improve the control environment.
We manage risk events through identification, reporting and resolution with the aim of preventing risk events from recurring.
Fraud risk Fraud could arise from either internal or We operate a system of processes and controls to aid prevention external parties who attempt to defraud and detection of attempted fraud.
In addition, we have a governance the firm or our clients by circumventing framework through which all types of fraud, including cyber-crime, our processes and controls.
The framework includes the use of fraud risk assessments to identify potential risks and to ensure appropriate controls are in place.
Technology and Technology and information security risk Schroders actively engages with regulators and intelligence services information relates to the risk that our technology systems to understand and take action against potential cyber threats.
security risk and support are inadequate or fail to adapt to changing requirements: that our systems An information security strategy has been established and is are penetrated by third parties: and that overseen by the Information Security Council which provides data is held insecurely.
We maintain explicit cover for cyber-crime as part of the Groups insurance protection.
People and Talented people may be targeted We have competitive remuneration and retention plans, with employment by competitors seeking to build appropriate deferred benefits targeted at key employees.
We seek practices risk their businesses.
to build strength in depth and to put in place sustainable succession and development plans.
We also operate from many international centres, which reduces our reliance on single pools of talent.
Clear objectives are set for employees and success is measured in the annual review process, allowing us to identify motivational development initiatives.
In addition, people and employment practices We have policies and procedures in place to manage employment risk relates to the risk that our employment issues appropriately and handle them consistently, fairly and in practices do not comply with local legislation, compliance with local legislation.
such as equal opportunities, human rights or the safety and wellbeing of employees when at work.
Third-party We have a number of outsourced supplier Our outsourcing policy sets out key considerations when appointing service provider relationships as part of our business model, and managing a third-party service provider, including due diligence risk particularly in respect of information and regular reviews of providers performance against agreed technology, fund administration and transfer service levels.
Exit plans are considered prior to appointment and provide a Third-party service provider risk relates to the framework for transitioning business from one service provider risk that suppliers may not be able to meet to another should the quality fall below the agreed service level.
their agreed service level terms.
On an annual basis, the GRC reviews all outsourced relationships covered by the Group Policy, focusing on significant aspects such as service quality and risks.
38 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Mapping key emerging risks 4 Emerging risks are those with uncertain impact, probability and time frame that could impact the Group.
These are the hardest to define.
7 We analyse each risk and, if needed, develop and apply mitigation and management plans.
The external emerging risks that are currently our focus of attention are set out below.
The diagram indicates our assessment of the likelihood and potential timing of these risks.
8 The estimated likelihood may change as circumstances evolve 5 and mitigation plans are developed.
Regulatory and tax related risks are mapped below.
Geopolitical events for example Ukraine, Middle East, oil price 6.
UK exit from the European Union Market Other Client competitor Regulatory legal political Counterparty third-party Mapping key regulatory and tax related risks The extent of regulatory and tax change facing our industry has increased significantly.
This poses both risks and opportunities for our business.
The diagram opposite combines known and emerging 8 regulatory and tax change initiatives, to identify both the likely timing 2 and estimated impact of regulatory change on our business.
New initiatives which arose during 2014 are highlighted in orange.
EU Packaged Retail and 17 7 1 13 in UK banking: the new Insurance based Investment 3 10 20 regulatory framework Products Regulation 4 21 6 2.
Regulatory scrutiny 5 19 12 23 Instruments Directive II of systemic risks in 9 11 14 MiFID II and Regulation asset management MiFIR implementation 15.
Undertakings for Collective Rights proposal Investments in Transferable 16.
European Long Term Securities UCITS Directive Investment Funds Short-term Medium-term Long-term V implementation 17.
Anti-money laundering, Union proposals bribery and corruption 18.
Asian mutual fund New risk In 2013 Annual Report Tax related risk developments recognition initiatives 5.
UK Client Assets rules revision 19.
Market Abuse Directive II funds MAD II and Regulation MAR 20.
UK Fair and Effective implementation Markets Review 7.
Remuneration and employee 21. Review of EU Capital incentivisation reform Requirements Directive IV 8.
Derivatives clearing implementation and reporting globally 22.
OECD base erosion and funds proposals profit sharing tax initiative 10.
EU VAT changes Directive implementation 25.
Data and privacy reporting standard protection reform 26.
EU Solvency Directive II implementation Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 Group Impact Likelihood Low Medium High Less likely More likely
