Risk Management Team St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 34 The mechanisms for identifying, assessing, managing and monitoring risks, including internal controls, are an integral part of the management processes of the Group.
Understanding the risks we face, and managing them appropriately, enables effective decision-making, contributes to our competitive advantage and helps us to achieve our business objectives as set out on pages 12 and 13.
In establishing the system of internal control, the Directors have regard to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of risks occurring and the costs of mitigating risks.
The system does not seek to eliminate risk entirely, but rather is designed to manage the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable assurance against material financial mis-statement or loss.
Risk Management Framework The Risk Management Framework, which is the responsibility of Risk, Risk the Board, describes the ways in which the Group identifies, assesses, measures, manages and monitors the risks that may Management and impact on the successful delivery of our business objectives.
Internal Control The Risk Committee oversees our Risk Management Framework on behalf of the Board.
The Risk Committee comprises Nonexecutive Board members, and is responsible for ensuring that a culture of effective risk identification and management is fostered across the Group.
A report of their activity during the year can be found on pages 63 and 64.
The Risk Committee is supported by the Executive Board, and also by a Risk Executive Committee and the Risk Management team, which take the lead in ensuring an appropriate framework is in place and that there is on-going development and coordination of risk management within the Group.
Risk Management Framework Group Risk Appetite Risk Policies Reports to Executive Board and Risk Committee Management and Capitalisation of Risks Group Risk Management Information including Key Risk Indicators Business Units Risk Schedules Loss Data Risk & Control Meetings Registered No.
03183415 Business Executive Board Managers Oversight Oversight S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 During 2014, a new Risk Management Framework has been Board, assisted by the Risk Committee, and accord with the developed, to ensure continued close alignment between our Guidance for Directors in C. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance business objectives and the management of risks to those Code and with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors on Internal objectives.
The revised framework is grounded in the outcomes Control.
which are key to our organisation.
These are: Clients that we deliver positive outcomes to clients.
Risk Appetite and Risk Policies Partners that we continue to grow and develop the At the centre of our Risk Management Framework is the Risk Partnership.
In our Risk Appetite Statement, the Board Investment Management Approach that we increase the sets out risk boundaries which specify the types of risks the amount of funds under management.
Group is willing to take and to what extent.
It also sets out how Financials and shareholders that we deliver strong, the Group operates in its chosen business and specifies appropriate sustainable financial results and shareholder value.
The Statement is currently being Regulators that we are compliant and have an open and reshaped through engagement with risk owners across the honest relationship with our regulators.
business to ensure its continued relevance to the objectives of the People that we treat all of our stakeholders well.
Group and to reflect the requirements of forthcoming Solvency II regulations.
Whilst some aspects, such as the appetite for overseas Each of these outcomes, and each key project, has an owner on clients, will change to accommodate the Groups expansion into the Executive Board, who is accountable for managing the risks in Asia, there will not be a fundamental shift of the underlying risk that area and providing regular reports to the Executive Board, appetite of the Group.
covering the key and topical risks to that outcome or project, and associated management information.
In support of our Risk Appetite Statement, we have a number of Risk Policies which clearly establish our objectives, principles and To ensure a comprehensive risk universe, there is also a bottomhigh level management activities in relation to each of the main up element to our framework.
Each division of the Group is types of risk that the Group faces.
responsible for identifying, managing and reporting of its own risks via divisional risk logs, and is supported in this by the Risk Risk Schedules and Key Risk Indicators Management team.
Each risk is assessed by considering its Corporate and Divisional risk schedules and quarterly Key Risk potential impact and the likelihood of its occurrence, with impact Indicator reports are produced to facilitate the monitoring of risks assessments being made against financial and non-financial by the Risk and Finance Executive Committees, Risk Committee metrics.
Establishment of appropriate controls is a core part of the and Board.
These schedules and indicators provide a mechanism risk management process.
for capturing and considering the significant risks facing the business.
Financial Reporting Processes Specifically in relation to the financial reporting processes, the Risk Capital Management main features of the internal control and risk management Many of the activities of the Group, and the legal entities in the systems include: Group are regulated.
We have existing relationships with UK and Extensive documentation, operation and assessment of controls Irish regulators and have developed new relationships with local in key risk areas.
regulators in Singapore and Hong Kong this year.
The sensitive Monthly review and sign-off of all financial accounting data nature of these activities and the regulatory focus results in submitted by outsourced providers and the results of all additional risk management activities including, but not limited subsidiaries within the Group.
to, stress and scenario testing, loss event recording, resolution Formal review of financial statements by senior management, planning and risk capital management activity.
for both individual companies and the consolidated Group.
A significant current project in relation to risk capital Control Self-assessment management is the forthcoming implementation of Solvency II.
The Group introduced a process of control self-assessments in In 2014, development work to satisfy the transition requirements 2013.
The process requires business areas to review their key included submission of Own Risk and Solvency Assessment controls and sign-off on their efficacy.
This process has been ORSA reports to the relevant regulators for our two insurance further developed during 2014 and is now an annual process.
As a result of this work we considered the allocation of risk capital to all the major risks in these entities and are confident that our insurance companies remain strongly Compliance with Corporate Governance Code and capitalised.
Turnbull Processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group have been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, although the nature of these processes has been revised during this period.
They are regularly reviewed by the St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 36 Risk, Risk Management and continued Internal Control Principal Risks and Uncertainties The following tables summarise the principal risks and uncertainties that are inherent within both the Groups business model and the market in which we operate.
These principal risks and uncertainties, the business outcomes on which they impact, and the high level controls and processes through which we aim to mitigate them, are as follows: Risk Description Outcome Management and Controls Client proposition Clients invariably rely on Clients, financials and There are many processes in place to members of our Partnership shareholders mitigate this risk, including detailed for the provision of initial and advice guidance, Partner training and ongoing advice.
Failures in the accreditation, appropriate incentive quality of service provided, structures, quality checking, client and in particular any advice engagement conducted by the Client failings, could lead to redress Outcomes team and extensive costs, reputational damage and monitoring of the internal funds and regulatory intervention.
We also have appropriate professional indemnity insurance in place.
Competition Competitor activity in the Financials and This risk is mitigated through ensuring adviser-based wealth shareholders our business is run efficiently, being management market may responsive to the needs of our clients and result in a reduction in new Partners and seeking continual business volumes, reduced improvements to processes.
Charges are retention of existing business, benchmarked against competitors and and the potential loss of competitor activity monitored.
Regular Partners reports are provided to the Executive and key employees.
Board, allowing action to be taken in a timely manner in the event of a threat to our business model.
We have a proven track record in Partner acquisition and retention, which we believe would make it difficult for a new entrant to challenge our position.
In addition, our more established Partners often have significant equity stakes in their practices and their ability to access these is structured to aid retention.
Regulatory, legislative The nature of the Group is Regulators, Partners, Regulatory and legislative change is and tax environment such that it falls under the clients, financials and largely a risk which cannot be mitigated, influence of regulators and shareholders although the Group seeks to engage with legislators in multiple regulators and policy makers in an open jurisdictions, a growing and constructive manner, with the aim number given the Groups that key issues impacting the group are expansion into Asia.
New taken into consideration in the drafting regulatory, legislative or tax of changes.
Our governance structures, requirements may result in management committees and compliance implementation costs and monitoring activities seek to ensure we disruption to business.
The remain compliant with regulation.
Group could face a fine or regulatory censure from failure to comply with applicable regulations.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 Risk Description Outcome Management and Controls People and culture People and the distinctive People This risk is mitigated through effective culture of the Group play an leadership including succession planning, important part in its success.
the implementation of executive and Over-stretch, the loss of key management development initiatives and personnel or unwanted regular surveys and consultation groups.
changes to culture may The latter enable us to monitor the therefore impact on this sentiment of our staff and Partners and success.
identify any potential adverse impacts upon, or trends within, our culture, and respond appropriately.
Partner proposition, Group products are Partners The Partner proposition is an area of recruitment and distributed, and ongoing continual focus, with outputs from retention advice is provided, exclusively regular Partner surveys and other through the St. Jamess Place Partner feedback being reflected on an Partnership.
We employ a number of the range of products, specialist managers specifically to technology or processes manage the recruitment and retention of offered by the Partnership may high quality Partners, and a dedicated result in inefficiencies and senior management team oversees the frustration, with consequent Academy, which broadens our loss of Partners and client recruitment streams.
Formal retention impact, or inability to recruit strategies are in place to ensure that, new Partners.
wherever possible, we retain good quality and experienced Partners.
All recruitment and retention activity is closely monitored.
Investment Management Our approach to investment Clients, the Investment We actively manage and monitor the Approach management may fail to Management Approach performance of our investment managers deliver expected returns to through the Investment Committee clients of the Group.
which also makes use of firms of professional advisers led by Stamford Associates to help them with this key task.
We offer a broad range of funds, which allows client diversification and mitigates our new business, persistency and market risks.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 38 Risk, Risk Management and continued Internal Control Risk Description Outcome Management and Controls Operations and IT The Groups business model Clients, financials and These risks are mitigated by service level involves the outsourcing of shareholders agreements, monitoring of administration to third administration providers and an effective parties.
Poor service from, or information security control framework.
failure of, one of these third We are enhancing our existing cyber parties, the failure of an IT security risk management capabilities, system, or a significant including a significant improvement in cyber-attack, could lead to our testing framework, in light of the disruption of services to increasing threat in this area.
We clients, reputational damage maintain close working relationships and profit impacts.
There is with our outsourcing partners, who are also a risk that clients or central to our business model.
This Partners may experience enables us to work effectively and disruption of service during efficiently together to deliver the best the implementation of our result.
In the extreme event, all our new third party relationships are governed by formal administration platform.
agreements with notice periods and full exit management plans and, if required, strong alternative providers exist in the market.
The business continuity arrangements of each outsourcer are also continually tested and improved and scenario analysis is carried out.
The risk of service disruption on implementation of the new administration platform is being mitigated through diligent quality checking and phased implementations.
Political Changes in the political Financials and This risk is mitigated, to the extent this landscape could lead to shareholders is possible, through engagement with the substantial changes in policy, major political parties and through resulting in significant engaging the services of relevant public development costs and relations and communications disruption to the Groups consultants.
Failure to deliver changes in the required timescales may lead to reputational damage and loss of new business.
Investor relations Failure to communicate Financials and This risk is mitigated through the work effectively with new and shareholders of the investor relations team, whose existing shareholders may lead remit is to ensure the maintenance of to falls in the share price and positive relationships with shareholders.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 Other Key Risks and Uncertainties In addition to the principal risks and uncertainties mentioned above there are other key risks and uncertainties that are inherent within the businesses and markets in which we operate.
These are detailed in the following table under the relevant risk categories, together with the high level controls and processes through which we aim to mitigate these risks.
Financial risks Risk Description Management and Controls Credit The risk of loss due to a debtors nonThe Group has adopted a risk averse payment of a loan or other line of credit, approach to credit risk and has a stated including holdings of cash and cash policy of not actively pursuing or equivalents, deposits and formal loans accepting credit risk except when with banks and financial institutions.
necessary to support other business objectives.
Loans and advances to Partners are assessed on a prudent basis and monitored carefully.
Liquidity The risk that the Group, although solvent, The Group is averse to liquidity risk and either does not have available sufficient seeks to minimise this risk by not actively financial resources to enable it to meet its pursuing it except where necessary to obligations as they fall due, or can secure support other business objectives.
such resources only at excessive cost.
Generally, free assets are invested in cash or near cash assets with strong counterparties and the Groups cash position and forecast are monitored on a monthly basis.
The Group also makes use of some bank financing.
In certain, unlikely, circumstances including change of control the terms of these agreements could mandate immediate repayment.
Market The risk of loss due to the impact of The Group adopts a risk averse approach movement in the value of equity or other to market risk, with a stated solvency asset markets.
policy of not actively pursuing or accepting market risk except where necessary to support other business objectives.
Generally, free assets are invested in cash or near cash to minimise market movement impact.
However, future profits are dependent on annual management charges which will vary with market levels.
Insurance The risk that arises from inherent The Group has a medium appetite for uncertainties as to the occurrence, insurance risk, only actively pursuing it amount and timing of insurance where beneficial, or in support of liabilities.
The Group assumes insurance strategic objectives.
Historically, the risk by issuing insurance contracts under Group insured mortality and morbidity which it agrees to compensate the client if risks, through protection business, but a specified future event occurs.
this risk has now been substantially reinsured through a combination of treaties, leaving only small amounts of mortality and morbidity risk but including low levels of mortality risk on other investment and pension insurance contracts.
The Group has no longevity risk as we have never written annuity business.
Further detail about the Groups exposure to financial risks is included in Note 29 of the consolidated financial statements.
