Risk and Capital review Risk management approach and bespoke scenarios are applied to our market and An analysis by CG of those loans that are neither past due nor considered as higher risk or non-standard are subjected to Credit risk mitigation liquiditypositions as described in the section on market risk stricter minimum requirements and require escalation to a impaired is set out on pages 75 and 76.
Potential credit losses from any given account, client or portfolio onpage113 and liquidity risk on page 114. senior credit officer or authorised bodies.
An analysis of the For Retail Clients IRB portfolios, we use application and are mitigated using a range of tools such as collateral, netting loan portfolio is set out on pages 65 to 70. behaviour credit scores that are calibrated to generate a agreements, credit insurance, credit derivatives and guarantees.
Credit risk management probability of default and then mapped to the standard The reliance that can be placed on these mitigants is carefully Credit concentration risk Credit risk is the potential for loss due to the failure of a alphanumeric credit risk grade system.
assessed in light of issues such as legal certainty and counterparty to meet its obligations to pay the Group in Credit concentration risk may arise from a single large exposure enforceability, market valuation correlation and counterparty Our CGs are not intended to replicate external credit grades accordance with agreed terms.
Credit exposures arise from to a counterparty or a group of connected counterparties, or riskof the guarantor.
where these are available, and ratings assigned by external both the banking and trading books.
from multiple exposures across the portfolio that are closely ratings agencies or credit bureaus are not used in determining Collateral is held to mitigate credit risk exposures.
Credit risk is managed through a framework that sets out policies our internal credit grades.
Nonetheless, as the factors used to appropriate, credit derivatives are used to reduce credit risks in and procedures covering the measurement and management grade a borrower may be similar, a borrower rated poorly by an Large exposure concentration risk is managed through the portfolio.
Due to their potential impact on income volatility, ofcredit risk.
There is a clear segregation of duties between external rating agency or credit bureau is typically assigned a concentration limits set by counterparty or group of connected such derivatives are used in a controlled manner with reference transaction originators in the businesses and approvers in the Risk worse internal credit grade.
All credit exposure limits are approved within a dened Advanced IRB models cover a substantial majority of our At the portfolio level, credit concentration thresholds are set and The Group credit risk mitigation policy determines the key credit approval authority framework.
The Group manages its credit exposures and are used in assessing risks at a customer and monitored to control concentrations, where appropriate, by considerations for eligibility, enforceability and effectiveness of exposures following the principle of diversication across products, portfolio level, setting strategy and optimising our risk return country, industry, product, tenor, collateral type, collateralisation credit risk mitigation arrangements.
geographies, industries, collateral types and client segments.
Material IRB risk measurement models are approved level and credit risk prole.
Collateral types that are eligible for risk mitigation include: cash: by the Credit Risk Committee, on the recommendation of the Credit Risk Committee For concentrations that are material at a Group level, thresholds residential, commercial and industrial property: xed assets Credit Model Assessment Committee.
The Credit Model are set and monitored by the Credit Risk Committee and such as motor vehicles, aircraft, plant and machinery: The Credit Risk Committee, which receives its ultimate authority Assessment Committee approves all other IRB risk reported to the Group Risk and Board Risk Committees.
marketable securities: commodities: bank guarantees: and from the Group Risk Committee, is the primary senior measurement models, with all decisions noted to the Credit letters of credit.
The Group also enters into collateralised management committee to ensure the effective management of Risk Committee.
The Credit Model Assessment Committee Credit monitoring reverse repurchase agreements.
credit risk throughout the Group in line with risk appetite and in supports the Credit Risk Committee in ensuring risk support of Group strategy.
The Credit Risk Committee regularly identication and measurement capabilities are objective and We regularly monitor credit exposures, portfolio performance, In order to be recognised as security and for the loan to be meets to monitor all material credit risk exposures, key internal consistent, so that risk control and risk origination decisions and external trends that may impact risk management classied as secured, all items pledged must be valued and an developments and external trends, and ensure that appropriate areproperly informed.
Prior to review by the Credit Model outcomes.
active secondary resale market must exist for the collateral.
It is chaired by the Group Chief Credit officer.
Assessment Committee, all IRB models are validated in detail Documentation must be held to enable the Group to realise the Internal risk management reports are presented to risk by a model validation team, which is separate from the teams asset without the cooperation of the asset owner in the event committees, containing information on key environmental, Credit policies that develop and maintain the models.
Models undergo annual that this is necessary.
The Group also seeks to diversify its political and economic trends across major portfolios and periodic review.
Reviews are also triggered if the performance collateral holdings across asset classes and markets.
Group-wide credit policies and standards are considered and countries: portfolio delinquency and loan impairment of a model deteriorates materially against predetermined approved by the Group Risk Committee, which also oversees performance: and IRB portfolio metrics including credit For certain types of lending typically mortgages or asset thresholds during the ongoing model performance the delegation of credit approval and loan impairment grademigration.
nancing the right to take charge over physical assets is monitoringprocess.
These policies set key control significant in terms of determining appropriate pricing and Credit risk committees meet regularly to assess the impact of standards on credit origination and credit risk assessment, recoverability in the event of default.
The requirement for Credit approval and credit risk assessment external events and trends on the Groups credit risk portfolios concentration risk and large exposures, credit risk mitigation, collateral is, however, not a substitute for the ability to pay, and to define and implement our response in terms of credit monitoring, collection and recovery management.
In Major credit exposures to individual counterparties, groups which is the primary consideration for any lending decisions.
appropriate changes to portfolio shape, portfolio and addition, there are other Group-wide policies integral to credit ofconnected counterparties and portfolios of retail exposures underwriting standards, risk policy and procedures.
Regular valuation of collateral is required in accordance with the risk management such as those relating to stress testing, risk are reviewed and approved by the Credit Approval Committee.
Groups credit risk mitigation policy, which prescribes both the measurement and impairment provisioning.
The Credit Approval Committee is appointed by the Credit Risk Clients or portfolios are placed on early alert when they display process of valuation and the frequency of valuation for different Committee and derives its credit approving authority from the signs of actual or potential weakness, for example, where there Policies and procedures specic to each client or product collateral types.
The valuation frequency is driven by the level Group Risk Committee.
is a decline in the clients position within the industry, financial segment are established by authorised bodies.
These are ofprice volatility of each type of collateral and the nature of the deterioration, a breach of covenants, non-performance of an consistent with our Group-wide credit policies, but are more All other credit approval authorities are delegated by the Group underlying product or risk exposure.
Stress tests are performed obligation within the stipulated period, or there are concerns detailed and adapted to reect the different risk characteristics Risk Committee to individuals based both on their judgement onchanges in collateral values for key portfolios to assist senior relating to ownership or management.
across client and product segments.
Policies are regularly and experience and a risk-adjusted scale that takes account management in managing the risks in those portfolios.
Physical reviewed and monitored to ensure these remain effective and ofthe estimated maximum potential loss from a given customer Such accounts and portfolios are subjected to a dedicated collateral is required to be insured at all times and against all risks, consistent with the risk environment and risk appetite.
Credit origination and approval roles are segregated process overseen by Credit Issues Committees in countries.
with the Group as the loss payee under the insurance policy.
in all but a very few authorised cases.
In those very few Clientaccount plans and credit grades are re-evaluated.
In Where appropriate, collateral values are adjusted to reect Credit rating and measurement exceptions where they are not, originators can only approve addition, remedial actions are agreed and monitored.
Remedial current market conditions, the probability of recovery and the limited exposures within dened risk parameters.
actions include, but are not limited to, exposure reduction, security Risk measurement plays a central role, along with judgement period of time to realise the collateral in the event of possession.
enhancement, exiting the account or immediate movement of the and experience, in informing risk-taking and portfolio All credit proposals are subject to a robust credit risk account into the control of Group Special Assets Management Where guarantees or credit derivatives are used as credit risk management decisions.
It includes a comprehensive evaluation of the GSAM, our specialist recovery unit.
Typically, all Corporate & mitigation, the creditworthiness of the guarantor is assessed clients credit quality, including willingness, ability and capacity Since 1 January 2008, Standard Chartered has used the Institutional Clients, Commercial Clients and PrivateBanking and established using the credit approval process in addition to repay.
The primary lending consideration is usually based on advanced internal ratings based IRB approach under the Basel II Clients pastdue accounts are managed by GSAM.
tothat of the obligor or main counterparty.
The main types the clients credit quality and the repayment capacity from regulatory framework to calculate credit risk capital requirements.
ofguarantors include banks, insurance companies, parent operating cash ows for counterparties: and personal income or For Retail Clients exposures, portfolio delinquency trends are companies, shareholders and export credit agencies.
A standard alphanumeric credit risk grade CG system for wealth for individual borrowers.
The risk assessment gives due monitored continuously at a detailed level.
Individual customer Corporate & Institutional Clients and Commercial Clients is consideration to the clients liquidity and leverage position.
behaviour is also tracked and considered for lending decisions.
The numeric grades run from 1 to 14 and some of the Where applicable, the assessment includes a detailed analysis Accounts that are past due are subject to a collections grades are further sub-classied.
Lower credit grades are of the credit risk mitigation arrangements to determine the level process, managed independently by the Risk function.
Credit risk from traded products is managed within the overall indicative of a lower likelihood of default.
CG 1 to 12 are of reliance on such arrangements as the secondary source of Charged-off accounts are managed by specialist recovery credit risk appetite for corporates and financial institutions.
assigned to performing customers or accounts, while CG 13 repayment in the event of a significant deterioration in a clients teams.
In some countries, aspects of collections and recovery The credit risk exposure from traded products derives from the and 14 are assigned to non-performing or defaulted customers.
credit quality leading to default.
Lending activities that are functions are outsourced.
positive mark-to-market value of the underlying instruments, 108 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 109
