STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management CPW has a well-established risk management function, which monitors thekeyrisks facing the business.
The table below summarises the most material risks identified and the ways inwhichthe business seeks to mitigate them.
RISK MITIGATION CONSUMER ENVIRONMENT CPWs major markets have experienced economic CPW continues to focus on strong cost control to try to ensure headwinds since 2009.
There still remains some uncertainty that it is well positioned to deal with anuncertain environment.
around the economic outlook for some markets.
The products and services offered by CPW may be viewed as discretionary, and consequently affected by consumer confidence.
DEPENDENCE ON KEY SUPPLIERS AND CUSTOMERS CPWs principal revenue streams are from MNOs.
Changes CPW prioritises commercial arrangements that are closely in MNO strategies in relation to CPW or more generally, aligned with the interests of MNOs and focuses on high-value and or their performance, could materially affect the segments to help drive economic value for the networks.
revenuesand profits of the business.
CPW seeks to increase and leverage the scale of its operations CPW is dependent on relationships with key suppliers to source to support strategic relationships.
products on which availability may be limited.
COMPETITION CPW operates in markets that are highly competitive and The business has sought to differentiate itself through competitor behaviour may damage revenues and margins.
innovative propositions, high quality customer service, andagood supply of scarce products.
In some markets CPW may not have the scale required tocompete effectively against increased competition.
The business is working to build partnerships with other retailers in certain territories in order to achieve additional scale.
REGULATION CPW is subject to regulation in a number of areas, including The business has internal committees and control structures insurance operations, information security and customer tomanage these requirements, to ensure appropriate management.
Non-compliance with regulation could result compliance, and to react swiftly should issues arise.
infinancial loss and or reputational damage to the business.
OPERATIONS CPW is dependent on internal and external IT systems A significant investment has been made over recent years inthe whichcould fail or be unable to keep pace with theneeds IT infrastructure of the business, supported by testing processes ofthe business.
and ongoing business continuity planning.
CPW mitigates the risk of being dependent on outsourced IT systems by partnering with tier 1 application and infrastructure providers with best-in-class credentials, whilst also retaining key intellectual property and know-how in-house.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE A material part of CPWs activities and earnings are The business may hedge a proportion of such earnings, denominated in Euros, giving rise to exposure to foreign toprovide certainty of their value.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 19
