STRATEGIC REPORT Overview of strategy, performance measurement and risk management Investment Objective and Policy The Companys Objective is to maximise shareholders total returns by investing in the shares and securities of property companies and property related businesses internationally and also in investment property located in the UK.
Benchmark The benchmark is the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed Europe Capped Net Total Return Index in Sterling.
The index, calculated by FTSE, is free-float based and currently has 87 constituent companies.
The index limits exposure to any one company to 10% and reweights the other constituents pro-rata.
com contains further details about the index and performance.
Policy The investment selection process seeks to identify well managed companies of all sizes.
The Manager generally regards future growth and capital appreciation potential more highly than immediate yield or discount to asset value.
Although the investment objective allows for investment on an international basis, the benchmark is a Pan-European Index and the majority of the investments will be located in that geographical area.
Direct property investments are located in the UK only.
As a dedicated investor in the property sector the Company cannot offer diversification outside that sector, however, within the portfolio there are limitations, as set out below, on the size of individual investments held to ensure diversification within the portfolio.
Asset allocation guidelines The maximum holding in the stock of any one issuer or of a single asset is limited to 15% of the portfolio at the point of acquisition.
In addition, any holdings in excess of 5% of the portfolio must not in aggregate exceed 40% of the portfolio.
The Manager currently applies the following guidelines for asset allocation: UK listed equities 25 50% Continental European listed equities 45 75% Direct Property UK 5 20% Other listed equities 0 5 % Listed bonds 0 5 % Unquoted investments 0 - 5 % Gearing The company may employ levels of gearing from time to time with the aim of enhancing returns, subject to an overall maximum of 25% of the portfolio value.
In certain market conditions the Manager may consider it prudent not to employ gearing on the balance sheet at all, and to hold part of the portfolio in cash.
The current guideline is 10% net cash to 25% net gearing as a percentage of portfolio value.
Property Valuation Investment properties are valued every 6 months by an external independent valuer.
If a material event occurs in the intervening period, then an interim valuation will be instructed on the property in question.
Valuations of all the Groups properties as at 31 March 2014 have been carried out on a Red Book basis and these valuations have been adopted in the accounts.
Allocation of costs between Revenue & Capital On the basis of the Boards expected long term split of returns in the form of capital gains and income, the Group charges 75% of annual base management fees and finance costs to capital.
All performance fees are charged to capital.
TR Property Investment Trust 25 STRATEGIC REPORT Overview of strategy, performance measurement and risk management continued Performance and Key Performance Indicators The Board appraises the performance of the Company and the Manager as a key supplier of services to the company against Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
The objectives comprise both specific financial and shareholder related measures.
These are listed below together with a brief description of how the Board monitors the KPIs and the outcome.
Net Asset Value Total Return relative to the Benchmark Total Return The Directors regard the Companys net asset value total return performance in comparison with the benchmark as being the overall measure of value delivered to shareholders over the long term.
The Board reviews the performance in detail at each meeting and discusses the results and outlook with the Manager.
For the year to 31 March 2014 the Company delivered a total return of 22.4% compared with a benchmark return of 14.9%, an outperformance of 7.5%.
This continues a long term track record where over a ten year period the NAV total return has outperformed the benchmark by 75.15%.
Delivering a reliable dividend which is growing over the long term The principal objective of the company is a total return objective, however, the Manager aims to deliver a reliable dividend with growth over the longer term.
The Board reviews statements on income received to date and income forecasts at each meeting.
The full year dividend declared for the year to 31 March 2014 is 7.45p, an increase of 6.4% over the prior year dividend.
The dividend has grown by 300% in 10 years, equivalent to 11.5% per annum compounded.
The dividend has increased in each of 9 of the last 10 years, with just one year where the dividend was flat in 2010.
The discount or premium at which the Companys shares trade compared with Net Asset Value Whilst investment performance is expected to be a key driver of the share price discount or premium to the net asset value of an investment trust over the longer term, there are periods of volatility when the discount can widen.
The Board is aware of the vulnerability of a sector specialist trust to the change of investor sentiment towards that sector.
The Board takes powers at each AGM to buy-back and issue shares.
When considering the merits of share buy-backs or issuance, the Board looks at a number of factors in addition to the short and longer-term discount or premium to NAV to assess whether action would be beneficial to the shareholders overall.
Particular attention is paid to the impact of activity on the liquidity of the shares and the possible impact on ongoing charges in the longer term.
During the year under review, 375,000 shares were repurchased at an average discount of 15% to NAV.
The discount to NAV started the year at 13.4% and ended at just under 3%.
It is impossible to attribute a single cause for this, a major factor has undoubtedly been the favour of the sector with investors, however, the Directors believe this has been aided by strong relative performance and an active PR programme by the Managers who have worked hard to increase the profile for the Company.
Level of Ongoing Charges The Board is conscious of expenses and aims to deliver a balance between strong service and costs.
The AIC definition of Ongoing Charges includes any direct property costs in addition to the management fees and all the other expenses incurred in running a publicly listed company.
As no other Investment Trusts hold part of their portfolio in direct property, they either hold their portfolios as 100% listed and unlisted securities or 100% direct property, we show this statistic with and without the direct property costs to allow a comparison with other funds investing in securities.
Expenses are budgeted for each financial year and the Board reviews regular reports on actual and forecast expenses throughout the year.
For the year to March 2014, the ongoing charges without direct property costs decreased from 0.86% to 0.75%.
One factor in this is the construction of the base management fee, which is largely a fixed sum, so in a rising market the increase in management fee is modest.
Investment Trust Status The Company must continue to operate in order to meet the requirements for Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
26 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT Overview of strategy, performance measurement and risk management continued The Board reviews financial information and forecasts at each meeting which set out each of the tests set out in Sections 1158 and 1159.
The Directors believe that the conditions and ongoing requirements have been met in respect of the year to 31 March 2014 and that the Company will continue to meet the requirements.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties In delivering long-term returns to shareholders, the Board must also identify and monitor the risk that has been taken in order to achieve that return.
The first group of risks relate primarily to the risks of investing in worldwide stock markets in general and then the geographical and sector focus of the portfolio and the construction of the portfolio in particular: l The Companys assets comprise mainly listed equities so a principal risk is the performance of equity markets and exchange rates.
Both share prices and exchange rates may move rapidly and adversely impact the value of the Companys portfolio.
l Although the portfolio is diversified across a number of geographical regions, the investment mandate is focused on a single sector and therefore the portfolio will be sensitive not only to general sentiments towards global equity markets but also sentiment towards the property sector.
l Property companies are subject to many factors which can adversely affect their performance, these include the general economic and financial environment in which their tenants operate, interest rates, availability of investment and development finance and regulations issued by governments and authorities.
l The Companys portfolio is actively managed.
In addition to investment securities the Company also invests in commercial property and accordingly, the portfolio may not follow the return of the benchmark.
l The shares of the Company are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the share price is determined by supply and demand.
The shares may trade at a discount or at a premium to the Companys underlying NAV and this discount or premium may fluctuate over time.
The Board mitigates these risks through the regular monitoring of investment performance and analytical data provided by the Manager at board meetings.
The composition of the portfolio, analysis in comparison with the benchmark, details of sales and purchases, foreign currency exposures, tracking error data and the views of the Manager are discussed in detail.
The second group of risks relate to the financial, accounting, operational, taxation, legal and regulatory requirements of the Company itself: l The financial risks that the Company is exposed to include market price risk, credit risk, liquidity, exchange rate and interest rate risks.
Details of how those risks are managed are set out in note 11 to the accounts on page 63. l The accounting and operational risks that the Company is exposed to include disruption to or failure of the systems and processes provided by the third party service providers and the risk that these service providers provide a substandard service.
l The taxation risks are that the Company may fail to obtain qualification as an investment trust and the Company may fail to recover withholding taxes levied on overseas investment income.
l Legal and regulatory risks include failure to comply with the London Stock Exchange listing rules and Transparency and Disclosure rules: meeting the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and other UK, European and overseas legislation affecting UK companies and compliance with accounting standards.
l Gearing, either through the use of bank debt or the use of derivatives may be utilised from time to time according to the Board and the Managers assessment of risk and reward.
Whilst the use of gearing is intended to enhance the NAV total return, it will have the opposite effect when the return of the Companys investment portfolio is negative.
Other risks are monitored by reports to the Board on the control environments and business continuation provisions by the Manager on both the Managers own processes and those of third party service providers.
The Board also receives regular regulatory updates from the Manager, Company Secretary, legal advisers and the Auditors.
The Board considers these reports and recommendations and takes action accordingly.
TR Property Investment Trust 27 STRATEGIC REPORT Overview of strategy, performance measurement and risk management continued Management Arrangements and business model Throughout the period investment management services have been provided by Thames River Capital LLP.
Accounting, custodial and administrative services have been provided by BNP Paribas Securities Services and company secretarial services by Capita Company Secretarial Services.
The specific terms of the investment management agreement with Thames River are set out in the Directors Report on page 32.
Corporate Responsibility Exercise of voting power The Board has approved a corporate governance voting policy which, in its opinion, accords with current best practice whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
The exercise of voting rights attached to the Companys portfolio has been delegated to the Manager who take a global approach to engagement with issuers and their management in all of the jurisdictions in which it invests.
The Manager is required to include disclosure about the nature of their commitment to the Financial Reporting Committees Stewardship Code and details may be found at www.
com Environmental policy & Socially Responsible Investment The Company considers that good corporate governance extends to policies on the environment, employment, human rights and community relationships.
Corporates are playing an increasingly important role in global economic activity and the adoption of good corporate governance enhances a companys economic prospects by reducing the risk of government and regulatory intervention and any ensuing damage to its business or reputation.
The Company has adopted an environmental policy in respect of its investments in both physical property and listed property companies.
Within the context of the overall aim of the Company to maximise shareholders returns the directors will seek to limit the Companys and its investee companies impact on the environment and will comply with all relevant legislation relating to its operations and activities.
The environmental policies and behaviour of all the companies in which the Company invests are taken into account in decision-making.
Good environmental management can play a role in overall risk management and also have a financial impact in terms of savings through energy and water efficiency.
Where appropriate the Manager will engage with investee companies to raise concerns about environmental matters.
So far as direct property investments are concerned, the Company conducts environmental audits prior to purchase to identify contamination or materials considered environmentally harmful.
The Company will take remedial action or enforce tenant obligations to do so wherever appropriate.
The Companys advisers assess the environmental impact of its properties on an ongoing basis and will take all necessary action to comply with environmental responsibilities.
Diversity, Gender Reporting and Human Rights Policy The Board recognises the requirement under Section 414 of the Companies Act 2006 to detail information about employee and human rights: including information about any policies it has in relation to these matters and effectiveness of these policies.
As the Trust has no employees, this requirement does not apply.
The Board currently comprises 4 male and 2 female directors.
The Boards diversity policy is outlined in more detail in the Corporate Governance Report.
The Manager has an equal opportunity policy which is set out on its website www.
By order of the Board Caroline Burton Chairman 9 June 2014 28 TR Property Investment Trust
