86 Risk report Summary of principal risks and uncertainties The Group is exposed to a number of principal risks and strategic uncertainties that arise from the business activities that underpin its business model and strategy.
In addition to the headwinds that are highlighted in the Chief Executive Officers statement on page 11, the principal risks faced by the Group are summarised in the table below and further analysed in the report that follows.
Principal risk Mitigating actions Conduct risk The risk that the Group fails to deliver Ensuring customers best interests are at the heart of everything the fair customer outcomes and achieve Groupdoes.
apositive experience for its customers.
Enhancing how its customer propositions are reviewed and assessed.
Refining how customer outcomes are understood.
Developing clear customer accountabilities for Partners including rewards with customer-centric metrics.
Identifying and understanding the root cause of where the Group falls short and putting it right.
Funding and Funding risk is the risk that the Group Maintaining aprudent liquid asset buffer of high quality unencumbered liquidity risk does not have sufficiently stable and assets in excess of regulatory requirements.
diverse sources of funding or its Demonstrating an ability to meet prudent liquidity risk appetite metrics funding structure is not efficient.
throughout the Groups planning horizon.
Liquidity riskisthe risk that the Group Stress testing of the Groups liquidity positions, conducted against arange has  resources to of scenarios, to meet all UK liquidity regulatory requirements.
meet commitments as they fall due, or Maintaining acontingency funding plan to address possible liquidity can only secure them at an excessive shortfalls in emergency situations.
Credit risk The risk that borrowers with the Group The Groups credit policy incorporates prudent lending criteria aligned fail to repay their loans or any other with Board-approved risk appetite.
Clearly defined levels of authority to ensure the Group lends appropriately and responsibly with aseparation of origination and sanctioning activities.
Robust credit processes and controls, including well-established committees and independent credit risk assurance, to ensure distressed and impaired loans are identified, considered and controlled.
Stress tests undertaken as part of the business planning cycle with the aim of ensuring the Group is able to operate within its risk appetite, throughout the period of the plan.
Capital risk The risk of the Group having Monitoring of capital ratios to ensure they exceed regulatory capital insufficient capital, by quantity or requirements and internal Board approved risk appetite measures over the quality, to meet current or future plan period.
Market risk The risk of areduction in earnings, Board approved risk appetite and governance framework.
value or reserves caused by changes in Regular reporting of market risk exposure to the Groups Asset and the prices of financial instruments.
Liabilities Committee and Risk Committee.
Operational The risk of loss resulting from The Group employs a framework for managing its operational risk risk inadequate or failed internal whichincludes preventative, detective and mitigating controls.
processes, people and systems Under a detailed arms length TSA, LBG continues to support the Group orfromexternalevents.
following its admission to the London Stock Exchange.
This agreement provides for the supply of IT and associated banking services to the Group and its customers.
Benefits include LBG continually updating andimproving its IT system architecture and systems resilience.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
