12 Risk overview Managing risk is atthefoundation ofour business.
Risk framework and culture The Groups risk framework is built upon three key principles Effective risk management is akey component of the Groups strategy to deliver local banking for Britain, and is at the heart of everything the Group does for customers and communities.
A consistent risk The Groups straightforward business model managementapproach is supported by arisk culture grounded in across its business, with ensuring asustainable appetite for risk.
Straightforward simple reporting requirements to provide aholisticview The Groups risk culture is designed to ensure that all of risk throughoutthe Partners deliver the right outcomes for customers and Groups operations.
other stakeholders through their approach to their work and the decisions and actions they take.
Risks are owned A clear risk management and managed by all Partners, not just by specialist risk approach which is understood teams.
The risk culture encourages all Partners to focus across the business.
Byworking on identifying, assessing and managing risk within their collaboratively, all Partners areas of responsibility and supports clear escalation and Transparent are able to share findings reporting of risks to senior management and the Board.
and approaches to help The Groups risk management culture is reinforced by its ensure adequate controls approach to remuneration throughout the business.
The Board and senior management set risk appetite.
Thisisachieved through clear and consistent communication Clear ownership of risks within of the approach to risk and cascading accountability to the Group and empowerment appropriately qualified individuals throughout the Group.
of Partners to manage risk The Board ensures that senior management implements Responsible exposures in line with expected risk policies and risk appetite that either limit or, where values and behaviours.
appropriate, prohibit activities, relationships and situations that could be detrimental to the Groups risk profile.
The Group maintains asustainable appetite for risk which supports the delivery of its growth strategy, whilst protecting customers, shareholders and Partners.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information The Group manages risk Governance of risk using three lines of defence The Groups committees monitor and challenge risk exposures against approved risk appetite.
Each committee The Group organises its risk management activities within the governance structure is responsible for ensuring across three lines of defence.
These aim to ensure that the risk and control environment is established within its risk management responsibilities and accountabilities are area of authority.
This enables day-to-day decisions to be clearly defined and effective, and independent oversight made, with clear reporting lines established through the processes are in place.
Executive and Board Risk committees, and ultimately to the Board.
Further information on governance is set out in the Corporate governance statement on page 42.
First line of defence: Business line Each business line has primary responsibility for risk decisions and actions as well as measuring, monitoring Principal risk and uncertainties and controlling risks within its area of accountability.
Business lines identify, assess, manage and mitigate The Group monitors anumber of risks to its business the risks relevant to their lines.
They establish controls to and takes action to mitigate their impact on the Groups ensure compliance with the Groups policies and the risk strategic and financial performance.
The principal risks appetite parameters set out and approved by the Board.
and uncertainties faced by the Group are summarised on the following page.
Further details of these risks are set out in the Risk report on page 86.
Second line of defence: Risk function The Groups risk function provides independent oversight In addition to those risks and uncertainties and to the and challenge through testing the effectiveness of business headwinds highlighted in the Chief Executive Officers line risk management, as well as providing Group wide risk outlook on page 11, the Group faces other challenges, reporting.
It recommends risk strategy and the Groups including the potential uncertainty resulting from political risk appetite to the Board.
It also acts as atrusted advisor and regulatory uncertainties, both in the UK and globally.
to the business and its expertise facilitates the effective design and embedding of policy and compliance.
Third line of defence: Internal Audit The Groups Internal Audit function provides independent and objective assessment of the risk management activities of both the business lines and the risk function.
Internal Audit reports on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management activities to the Board and senior management.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 14 Risk overview Responsible and transparent risk management.
Principal risks dashboard For more information: For more information: For more information: Page 87 Risk report Page 88 Risk report Page 90 Risk report Conduct Funding and liquidity Credit The risk that the Group fails to deliver Funding risk is the risk that the Group The risk that aborrower with us fails fair customer outcomes and achieve does not have sufficiently stable to repay their loan or any other lending apositive experience for its customers.
and diverse sources of funding or product on time.
itsfunding structure is not efficient.
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group has insufficient financial resources to meet commitments as they fall due, or can only secure them at an excessivecost.
What this means to TSB What this means to TSB What this means to TSB Having the right people, doing the right The Groups banking model is based The Group provides affordable lending things in the right way for our customers on using its customer deposits to to its customers using robust credit and ensuring that the Group continually fund lending activities and seeks to processes and controls.
assesses that we are achieving this aim.
hold sufficient liquid assets, with alimited appetite for reliance on wholesalefunding.
Group loan to deposit ratio Reportable banking complaints % Franchise loan to deposit ratio % Asset quality ratio % per 1,000 customers 100 1.5 100 0.8 87.9 87.0 87.0 0.7 76.5 0.61 80 80 0.6 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.5 0.44 60 60 0.4 40 40 0.3 0.5 0.2 20 20 0.1 0 0 0.0 0.0 Dec H1 Dec H2 Dec Dec 2013 2014 2013 2014 2014 2014 2013 2014 Banking complaints have remained The Franchise loan to deposit ratio In line with expectations impairment stable at 1.0 per 1,000 accounts reflects avery robust funding position.
losses have decreased reflecting through 2014 as TSB works to improve The ratio decreased during 2014, due improved economic conditions, customer service.
to the growth in customer deposits and including rising house prices and lower loan balances.
See explanatory note 3 on page 10.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information For more information: For more information: For more information: Page 95 Risk report Page 97 Risk report Page 98 Risk report Capital Market Operational The risk of the Group having The risk of areduction in income, value The risk of loss resulting from insufficient quantity or quality of capital or reserves caused by changes in the inadequate or failed internal to meet current or future requirements.
processes, people or systems or from externalevents.
What this means to TSB What this means to TSB What this means to TSB The Group maintains astrong capital The Group aims to preserve its margins The Group faces risks from customer base which meets both its regulatory through the management of any market processes, IT systems, business requirements and supports the risk positions, including through the use continuity, fraud and financial crime, growth of the business, even under of interest rate derivatives, that arise in the running digital services, information stressedconditions.
security and data loss, and ongoing compliance with agrowing complex legal and regulatory agenda.
Pro forma CET1 ratio NII sensitivity illustrative impact of NII sensitivity illustrative impact of Leverage ratio Operational risk events Operational risk events fully loaded % a 25bps change in interest rates a 25bps change in interest rates m m by value of loss by value of loss % % 19.7 5.9 5.8 20 6 Up 25bps Up 25bps Down 25bps Down 25bps 18.2 4.8 4.8 5 21.1 21.1 15 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 4 10 3 2 8.2 8.2 5 74.1 74.1 1 10.5 10.5 Customer processes and treatment Customer processes and treatment 0 0 Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Fraud and financial crime Fraud and financial crime Jun Dec Jun Dec 2013 2013 2014 20142013 2013 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 IT management and information IT management and information and physical security and physical security The Group has astrong and improving The Group remains exposed to margin Operational risk events are recorded on capital position which will support its compression in the event of lower an individual basis where the operational growth strategy.
loss is 5,000 or more and fraud losses are 20,000 or more.
For 2014, events with aggregate losses of 1.2 million were recorded.
The Board monitors total operational losses as apercentage of income.
Thismeasure remained within the Groups risk appetite of 2.5% for the year.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
