Strategic Report continued Enterprise Risk Management Framework The Board has adopted an Enterprise Risk Management Regulatory capital Framework ERMF, the purpose of which is to enable the The Groups lead regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority.
Group to understand the risks to which it is exposed, and Aspart of the application for the change in control approval tomanage them in line with the Groups overall business from the FCA for the acquisition of PVM the Group applied for objectives and within its stated risk appetite.
The ERMF and has received a new Investment Firm Consolidation Waiver.
identifies processes, ownership, responsibilities and the The new waiver took effect on 25 September 2014 and will riskoversight required to support effective implementation expire on 24 September 2024. oftheframework, and comprises four mutually reinforcing The terms of the new waiver require the Group to eliminate components: the excess of its consolidated own funds requirements A risk management philosophy which sets out the Groups compared with its consolidated own funds excess goodwill underlying attitude to the management of risk and over the ten year period to 24 September 2024.
The amount of addresses the Groups risk appetite: the excess goodwill must not exceed the amount determined as atthe date the waiver took effect and must be reduced in A risk management culture which seeks to foster adoption line with a schedule over the ten years, with the first reduction ofappropriate risk management principles and behaviours of25% required to be achieved by March 2017.
The Company throughout the Group: expects to achieve this reduction within its current business A risk management governance structure based on three plan.
The waiver also sets out conditions with respect to the linesof defence that segregate risk management first line maintenance of financial ratios relating to leverage, debt of defence from risk oversight second line of defence and service and debt maturity profile.
risk assurance third line of defence : and Consistent with the previous waiver, under the terms of the Risk management processes that enable identification, new waiver each investment firm within the Group must be assessment, management and reporting of risk exposures.
either a limited activity or a limited licence firm and must comply with its individual regulatory capital resources Risk management philosophy requirements.
The Group is subject to the financial holding Effective risk management is essential for the financial company test, and Tullett Prebon plc, as the parent company, strengthand resilience of the Group, and for the achievement must continue to maintain capital resources in excess of the ofits business objectives.
The Board has the responsibility sum of the solo notional capital resources requirements for toensure that the Group implements an appropriate risk each relevant firm within the Group.
management culture throughout the Group, underpinned The Groups regulatory capital headroom under the financial byarobust framework of riskgovernance and controls, holding company test calculated in accordance with Pillar 1 complying with all relevant laws andregulations.
The Group has adopted core principles that set the context Many of the Groups broking entities are regulated on a forthe Groups risk management activities.
Risk management solobasis, and are obliged to meet the regulatory capital should be value enhancing so that current and potential risks requirements imposed by the local regulator of the jurisdiction are managed tosupport achievement of the Groups business in which the operate.
The Group maintains an appropriate objectives and strategy.
Risk management should address excess of financial resources in such entities.
theexpectations and requirements of the key stakeholders shareholders and regulatory authorities.
Risk oversight and Information disclosure under Pillar 3 is available on the assurance functions should be sufficiently independent of Groups website www.
business decision taking and supported by adequate resources.
The Board must clearly define its risk appetite, setting out the Risk Management type and level of risk the Group is willing to accept in pursuit ofits objectives.
Risk management should be integrated into business processes of the Group, and both current and This section sets out a summary of how risk is managed by emerging risks should be managed as an integral aspect of theGroup, covering the Groups Enterprise Risk Management thebusiness management processes.
Risk management Framework and its Principal Risks.
shouldbe proportionate and commensurate with the level The systems of internal control operated by the Group are andcomplexity of both the business model and the nature designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure ofassociated risks.
The cost of risk management should be toachieve business objectives, and can only provide proportionate to the value it creates for the Group, while reasonable and not absolute assurance against material ensuring that regulatory objectives are met.
should be subject to continual review and enhancement to ensure that associated structures, systems and processes remain effective and reflect stakeholder expectations.
16 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information awareof, and competent to undertake, their role in the Risk management culture riskmanagement process.
The Board recognises that embedding a sound risk management culture is fundamental to the effective The Group Treasury and Risk Committee GTRC is an operation of the Groups risk management framework, and executive committee that is responsible for overseeing the sets the tone and manner in which the Group conducts its day to day management of risks, and ensuring that the Groups business activities through defined values and expected risk exposure remains within its risk appetite.
The Board recognises that the Group must ensure Second line of defence risk oversight that the risk management culture is implemented across all of The second line of defence comprises the risk and compliance its businesses and functions, such that all employees are functions which are separate from operational management aware of, and act in conformity with, the desired values and andare responsible for overseeing and challenging the first line behaviours adopted by the Group in their day-to-day activities.
of defence as it undertakes the identification, assessment The Group achieves the implementation of its desired risk andmanagement of risks, and for assisting the Board and management culture through a combination of frameworks, itsvariouscommittees in discharging its overall risk policies and practices, including: the Group cultural framework management responsibilities.
which puts market integrity at the heart of the business: Risk In 2015, the Board will form a new Risk Committee as a Appetite Statements that clearly define the type and level of sub-committee of the Board, which will be responsible for risk the Group is willing to accept in pursuit of its objectives: theoversight of risk management across the Group.
The Risk Management Policies that set out risk management RiskCommittee will comprise at least three members, with expectations, including through the establishment of risk amajority of Non-executive Directors NEDs, one of whom limitsfor each risk and the allocation of responsibility for will also serve as a member of the Audit Committee.
The Risk identification, assessment, mitigation and reporting of risks Committee will be chaired by a NED with appropriate risk tospecific individuals: performance management that links management expertise, and will be attended by the Chief staff appraisals and remuneration to risk management Executiveand Chief Risk Officer.
attitudes and behaviours: and corporate communications thatreinforce awareness and understanding of the Groups The Risk Committee will be supported by regional risk desired risk management culture and associated policies.
committees which will have the same oversight responsibilities as the Risk Committee, but exercised at a regional level.
The Risk management governance structure regional risk committees will also chaired by a NED with risk The Board management expertise.
The Board has overall responsibility for the management ofriskwithin the Group.
This includes determining the The Groups risk function is responsible for assisting the Board natureandextent of the principal risks it is willing to take in inthe development of the Groups risk appetite and framework: achieving its objectives, defining expectations for the Groups monitoring the implementation of the risk framework and risk culture, ensuring that it has an appropriate and effective regulatory requirements including conduct and market risk management framework, setting the Groups risk appetite integrity and providing robust challenge to the first line and monitoring performance so that the Group remains initsrisk management activities.
The compliance function is responsible for monitoring The Board has delegated risk governance responsibilities to compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements, certain committees.
In 2015, the Board will form a new Risk including those relating to conduct of business requirements, Committee as a sub-committee of the Board, which will be market abuse provisions and the prevention of financial crime.
responsible for the oversight of risk management across the Third line of defence independent assurance Group.
The committee structure will then include the Group Internal Audit provides independent assurance on the design Treasury and Risk Committee first line of defence, the Risk andoperational effectiveness of the Groups risk management Committee of the Board second line of defence and the framework and activity, including the performance of the various AuditCommittee third line of defence.
business units and support and oversight functions which First line of defence risk management within constitute the first and second lines of defence.
Internal Audit thebusiness considers all relevant risk related information in constructing its The first line of defence comprises the management of the audit plan, including risk exposure reports, the results of risk and business units and support functions.
The first line of defence control self-assessments, and specific risk events which have has primary responsibility for ensuring that the business occurred such as loss events or near-misses.
Internal Audit has operates within risk appetite on a day-to-day basis.
a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee.
In discharging this responsibility, business management The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the Board, which areresponsible for identifying, assessing and managing discharges a number of risk management responsibilities, anyrisks arising from their activities, and for adhering to including the review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal allrelevant risk management policies adopted by the Group.
control and risk management procedures: the approval of the Thisincludes ensuring the effective operation of any controls Groups annual internal audit plan, and review of the internal required tomanage risk within appetite, and for ensuring audit function: and the review of all internal audit reports thatthe employees for whom they are responsible are andrelated management actions.
The Audit Committee is comprised of at least three members, all of whom are NEDs.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 17 Strategic Report continued The Group undertakes stress tests and scenario analyses to Risk management processes complement the RCSA process and enhance its understanding The ERMF sets out the core risk management activities of its risk profile and control framework.
The Group undertaken by the Group to ensure that it manages risk undertakes the following stress tests and scenario analysis exposures within risk appetite, to ensure that the Groups alongside the RCSA process: macro-economic scenarios to desired risk culture is embedded throughout the Group, and investigate the impact on the Group of severe but plausible that the Board understands the Groups risk profile and adopts external events which are beyond the control of the Group: a clearly defined risk appetite.
and reverse stress tests to identify those risks which could The business objectives and strategy adopted by the Board render the Groups business model unviable in an extreme determine the nature and scale of the commercial activities scenario, thereby identifying those areas of the Groups undertaken by the Group, and the overall risk appetite of the control framework which require particular scrutiny.
As such, the business objectives are the key The ability of the Group to withstand severe risk events is, to determinant of the Groups risk profile.
alarge extent, determined by the level of capital and liquidity The risk function periodically identifies the various risk resources held by the Group.
The Group therefore regularly exposure types of the Group, collectively referred to as the assesses the adequacy of its capital and liquidity resources riskuniverse previously referred to as the risk assessment tocover the Groups risk profile as established through the framework.
This exercise also covers any emerging risks, RCSAand stress test and scenario process.
The assessment defined as newly developing and changing risks which could offinancial resources is undertaken at a subsidiary level, to have a significant impact on the Group.
The risk universe is ensure that each subsidiary has access to adequate financial approved by the Board at least once a year, or more frequently resources on a standalone basis.
in the event of a significant change to the Groups business The Groups risk management policies set out reporting activities or external business environment.
Day to day monitoring and Risk appetite represents the type and level of risk which the reporting of risk exposures are assigned to specific functions Group is willing to accept in pursuit of its objectives and is or individuals.
Risk exposures are reported against the articulated by the Board through the Groups risk appetite relevant risk appetite orrisk limit and escalation procedures statements, at least annually or more often if required.
These ensure that significant exposures and events are subject to can be expressed in either quantitative or qualitative terms.
The senior management review and action.
The Groups Risk Group implements these risk appetite statements through the Management policies also set out reporting requirements adoption of risk limits which provide exposure thresholds that covering both events which have or might have resulted in a the business must use to manage the Groups risk exposure on material financial or reputational loss to the Group.
Risk limits are approved by the GTRC on a reviews reporting requirements at least annually as part of its semi-annual basis.
In setting its risk appetite, the Group adheres review of the risk management policies.
to the overriding principle that the risk profile of the Group should be managed to as low as reasonably practicable.
Principal Risks The Group publishes risk management policies which describe the principal risk management and control requirements that The Groups Risk Assessment Framework categorises the must be implemented to manage the Groups risk exposure risksfaced by the Group into nine risk categories: Market within appetite.
The GTRC approves the risk management Risk, Credit Risk, Operational Risk, Strategic and Business Risk, policies annually, or more often if needed.
Governance Risk, Regulatory, Legal and Human Resources Risk, The Group assesses risk exposure at least twice a year to Reputational Risk, Liquidity Risk and other Financial Risks.
ensure that it is operating within risk appetite.
The assessment of risk exposure consists of the Risk and Controls SelfMarket Risk Assessment Process RCSA : and stress testing and scenario Market Risk is the vulnerability of the Group to movements analysis.
Thefindings of the RCSA process and the stress and inthe value of financial instruments.
The Group does not take scenario analysis are taken together to determine total risk trading risk and does not hold proprietary trading positions.
exposure, and then compared with the applicable risk appetite Consequently, the Group is exposed to Market Risk only in statement to assess whether the Group is operating within relation to incidental positions in financial instruments arising risk appetite.
as a result of the Groups failure to match clients orders precisely.
Such positions are valued and measured from The RCSA is the process by which each subsidiary assesses tradedate on a daily mark-to-market basis.
itscurrent exposure to risk, including an assessment of the effectiveness of the control framework it has in place.
RCSAs The Groups risk management policies reduce the likelihood are performed by business and control functions with support ofsuch trade mismatches and, in the event that they arise, from the Risk function.
Any impact on the Groups capital, theGroups policy is to close out such balances immediately.
liquidity, reputation, regulatory standing or access tocapital AllMarket Risk arising across the Group is identified and markets is considered.
18 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Cash deposits Credit Risk The Group is exposed to counterparty Credit Risk in respect The Credit Risk faced by the Group consists of counterparty ofcash deposits held with financial institutions.
The vast credit risk as opposed to issuer risk, and principally arises majority of the Groups cash deposits are held with highly fromthe following: rated clearing banks and settlement organisations as set out pre-settlement risk arising from Matched Principal broking: in the Credit Risk analysis in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
settlement risk arising from Matched Principal broking: As with trading counterparties, cash deposit counterparty cash deposits held at banks and money market instruments: exposures and limits are kept under review and steps are taken and to reduce counterparty risk where market conditions require.
Name Passing brokerage receivables In addition to each individual element of counterparty risk The majority of transactions brokered by the Group are identified above, the Group is also exposed to concentration onaName Passing basis, where the Group acts as agent risk.
This is where the Group becomes overly exposed to these inarranging the trade and is not a counterparty to the credit exposures in the aggregate either to an individual transaction.
Whilst the Group does not suffer any exposure counterparty or to a group of linked counterparties.
inrelation to the underlying instrument brokered given that the Group is not a principal to the trade, it is exposed to the Pre-settlement risk risk that the client fails to pay the brokerage it is charged.
Pre-settlement Risk arises in the Matched Principal broking business in which Group subsidiaries interpose themselves Receivables arising from Name Passing brokerage are closely asprincipal between two or more contracting parties to a monitored by senior management.
Matched Principal transaction and as a result the Group is at Concentration risk risk of loss should one of the parties to a transaction default The possibility of Concentration Risk exists in the level of on its obligations prior to settlement date.
In the event of exposure to counterparties.
The Group controls its credit default, the Group would have to replace the defaulted exposure to counterparties and groups of linked counterparties contract in the market.
This is a contingent risk in that the through the application of a system of counterparty credit Group will only suffer loss if the market price of the securities limits based on the mark-to-market exposure for Matched has moved adversely to the original trade price.
Principal trades, outstanding brokerage receivables for Name Counterparty exposures are kept under constant review Passing trades, and amount on deposit for cash deposit andtheGroup takes steps to reduce counterparty risk where exposure.
Credit departments also monitor exposures across market conditions require.
Particular attention is paid to more country groupings, credit rating, and types of counterparty.
illiquid markets where the price movement is more volatile, such as broking in GDR, ADR and emerging markets Operational Risk instruments.
Operational Risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people activities, systems or external The Group is also exposed to short term pre-settlement risk events.
Operational Risk covers a wide and diverse range of where it acts as an executing broker on an exchange, during risk types, and the overall objective of the Groups approach to theperiod between the execution of the trade and the client Operational Risk management is not to attempt to avoid all claiming the trade.
This exposure is minimal as under the potential risks, but to proactively identify and assess risks and terms of the give-up agreements the Group has in place risk situations in order to manage them in an efficient and withits clients, trades must be claimed by the end of trade informed manner.
Examples of Operational Risk include: day.
Once the trade has been claimed, the Groups only exposure to the client is for the invoiced receivables.
IT systems failures, breakdown in security or loss of dataintegrity: Settlement risk Settlement Risk is the risk that on settlement date a failure or disruption of a critical business process, through counterparty defaults on its contractual obligation to make internal or external error or event: payment for a securities transaction after the corresponding failure or withdrawal of settlement and clearing systems: value has been paid away by the Group.
Unlike pre-settlement risk, the exposure is to the full principal value of the transaction.
events preventing access to premises, telecommunications failures or loss of power supply which interrupt business In practice the Group is not exposed to this risk as settlement activities: and is almost invariably effected on a Delivery versus Payment basis.
Freeof payment deliveries where an immediate broker errors.
exposure arises due to the Groups settling its side of the transaction without simultaneous receipt of the countervalue occur very infrequently and only under the application of stringent controls.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 19 Strategic Report continued Consolidation within the industry or integration with Strategic and Business Risk adjacentsectors may provide competing firms or platforms The Group operates in an environment characterised by with advantages of scale, access to wider pools of liquidity, intense competition, rapid technological change and a orservice capability that may put the Group at a competitive continually evolving regulatory framework.
Failure to adapt to disadvantage.
changing market dynamics, customer requirements or the way OTC markets and their participants are regulated constitutes a The Group seeks to manage and mitigate its commercial risk significant long term risk.
The Group has identified four by following a clearly defined business development strategy, principal categories of Strategic and Business Risk: geographic and product diversification and strong client relationship management.
direct regulatory risk: Commercial risk also includes the risk that the Group is unable indirect regulatory risk: to respond to market demand for electronic broking solutions lower market activity risk: and and loses market share as a result.
The Group seeks to address this risk through continued development and enhancement of commercial risk.
its electronic broking capability, to ensure that it can offer a Direct regulatory risk competitive solution for all major asset classes.
The risk of new regulations imposing a fundamental change tothe structure or activity of financial markets, resulting in a Governance Risk reduced role for IDBs.
Specific issues could include an inability Governance Risk is the risk of loss or damage to the business of the business to provide electronic platforms or market arising as a result of a failure of management structures or facilities which are compliant with new regulations or the processes.
This includes failure to adhere to applicable corporate obligation to hold punitive levels of regulatory capital.
governance requirements such as those recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code, a failure to ensure adequate Indirect regulatory risk succession to key management positions, or the inappropriate The risk of a fundamental change to the commercial use of authority and influence by current or former senior environment due to the impact on clients of changes to members of staff.
theirregulatory environment causing significantly reduced trade volumes.
This could include increased execution and The risk of accounting error or fraud is mitigated by the clearing costs, onerous collateral requirements or increases strongcontrol environment which exists within the Group, inregulatory capital requirements, or a prohibition on certain inparticular the involvement of the Audit Committee, the types of trading activity.
Internal Audit function and the GTRC.
Succession planning within the Group is overseenby the Board.
Lower market activity risk The risk that the Group experiences a sustained period of low Regulatory, Legal and Human Resource Risk market activity leading to reduced revenues.
This could arise This risk concerns the potential loss of value due to regulatory as a result of adverse macro-economic conditions, reduced enforcement action such as for breaches of conduct of business levels of general banking activity, market uncertainty or lack requirements or market abuse provisions : the possible costs and of volatility.
penalties associated with litigation: and the possibility ofafailure to retain and motivate key members of staff.
TheGroup also Commercial risk faces the risk that changes in applicable laws and regulations The risk of significant or fundamental changes to the could have a serious adverse impact on the business.
commercial or competitive environment, whether due to client requirements or competitor activity.
The Groups lead regulator is the FCA, but the Group is also subject to the requirements imposed by the regulatory The markets in which the Group competes are characterised framework of theother jurisdictions in which the Group by rapidly changing technology, evolving customer demand operates.
The Groups compliance officers monitor compliance and uses of services, and the potential emergence of new with applicable regulations and report regularly to the Board.
Such changes may increase TheGroups Legal department oversees contracts entered into the risk that the Group faces additional costs or barriers to byGroup companies, and manages litigation which arises from entry to markets that its competitors do not experience.
entrants or new methods of delivering broking services may gain first mover advantage that the Group may not be able to Reputational Risk respond toin a timely manner.
Reputational Risk is the risk that the Groups ability to do The Group competes with other interdealer brokers for business might be damaged as a result of its reputation being staff.
The costs of employing front office broking staff is tarnished.
Clients rely on the Groups integrity and probity.
currently the largest cost faced by the Group.
The effect of The Group has policies and procedures in place to manage this thecompetition for broking staff can result in an increase in risk to the extent possible, which include conduct of business staff costs, or if staff leave the Group, can result in the loss rules, procedures for employee hiring and the taking on of ofcapability, customer relationships and expertise.
20 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014
