Risk management and key risks The effective management of risk is a major component in delivering on the strategic aims of the Group.
Assessment The principal risks Description Impact Management and mitigation of risk year-on-year relating to the Group If the UK economy contracts or if interest rates increase, f Regularly reviewing market conditions and indicators to assess and its sector are Macroeconomic conditions average property prices, the number of mortgage approvals, whether any action is required to reduce costs or vary the summarised in the The Group derives most of its revenues from the UK residential property market the volume of transactions in the UK housing market and products and services.
andisthusdependent on the market and macroeconomic conditions in the UK.
estate agents and lettings agents marketing budgets f Maintaining a balance between different streams of revenues tableopposite.
could decrease, which could reduce the number of andprofits in order to provide protection against volatility within agents who subscribe for the Groups services or the property sales markets.
The table also shows how these risks are amount they spend on services.
managed by the Group and how the Group f Developing revenue streams in related adjacent markets.
plans to mitigate these risks.
The risk factors described opposite are not If Agents Mutual successfully launches in 2015 with f Communicating to members the value proposition of advertising New entrant to the market Agents Mutual anexhaustive list or an explanation of all itsproposed restrictive advertising provision, a portion on Group websites.
Agents Mutual was founded to create a new industry-owned property portal and requires risks.
Additional risks and uncertainties ofthe Groups existing members may terminate their f Offering attractive and competitive subscription packages its members to list on a maximum of only one other property portal.
relating to the Group, including those that subscriptions with the Group.
arenot currently known to the Group or Agents Mutuals launch may also result in fewer thatthe Group currently deems immaterial, f Increasing consumer brand awareness through marketing.
consumers using the Groups websites, a loss of may individually or cumulatively also have advertisers and a loss of market share for the Group.
f Increasing revenue from channels that are not susceptible amaterial adverse effect on the Groups toAgents Mutual new homes, commercial, overseas, business, results of operations and or onlineagents, data services.
New or existing competitors may develop new methods f Increasing user engagement levels by continuing a consumer-centric Changing online property landscape of working to provide services and products in the approach to product development to extend value to members.
Remained the same The Group participates in a competitive market with new technology developments, property market that are more attractive to the Groups f Continually monitoring and undertaking regular reviews of Risk increased whichmay impact its ability to offer the best service to customers and members.
consumers and members, resulting in fewer consumers competitor strategies that are built into the regular business using the Groups websites or mobile applications, aloss Risk decreased planning cycle.
of members and advertisers and a loss of marketshare.
f Maintaining organisational flexibility, allowing fast responses tonew business opportunities or threats.
Competition for qualified employees is intense and the f Investing in succession planning and improving learning and Retention and recruitment loss of a number of qualified employees to competitors, development, giving opportunities for employees to upgrade skills.
Success depends on the continued service and performance of the Groups Senior new entrants or otherwise, or an inability to attract, retain f Providing competitive compensation packages to staff, including Management Team and other key employees.
Skilled development, technical, operating, and motivate additional highly skilled employees required a blend of short and long-term incentives for managers.
sales and marketing personnel are also essential.
for the expansion of the Groups activities could materially adversely impact the Groups business, results of f Maintaining the culture of the Group, which generates significant operations, financial condition or prospects.
staff loyalty within senior and mid-management.
f Planning a structured approach to recruitment using specialist teams to increase the recruitment of high-quality employees quickly.
Any failure of the internet and or mobile network f Operating extensive disaster recovery and business continuity IT systems infrastructure generally, or any failure of existing or future contingency plans.
The Groups IT systems are interdependent and a failure in one system or a security breach computer or communication systems or software f Regular security testing of the IT systems and platforms.
may disrupt the efficiency and functioning of the Groups operations.
systems, or any security breach could impair the processing and storage of data and the day-to-day f Ensuring that all systems that the Group relies on are uptodate management of the Groups business.
and the most secure version.
16 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Assessment Description Impact Management and mitigation of risk year-on-year If the UK economy contracts or if interest rates increase, f Regularly reviewing market conditions and indicators to assess Macroeconomic conditions average property prices, the number of mortgage approvals, whether any action is required to reduce costs or vary the The Group derives most of its revenues from the UK residential property market the volume of transactions in the UK housing market and products and services.
estate agents and lettings agents marketing budgets f Maintaining a balance between different streams of revenues could decrease, which could reduce the number of andprofits in order to provide protection against volatility within agents who subscribe for the Groups services or the property sales markets.
amount they spend on services.
f Developing revenue streams in related adjacent markets.
If Agents Mutual successfully launches in 2015 with f Communicating to members the value proposition of advertising New entrant to the market Agents Mutual itsproposed restrictive advertising provision, a portion on Group websites.
Agents Mutual was founded to create a new industry-owned property portal and requires ofthe Groups existing members may terminate their f Offering attractive and competitive subscription packages its members to list on a maximum of only one other property portal.
Agents Mutuals launch may also result in fewer f Increasing consumer brand awareness through marketing.
consumers using the Groups websites, a loss of advertisers and a loss of market share for the Group.
f Increasing revenue from channels that are not susceptible toAgents Mutual new homes, commercial, overseas, onlineagents, data services.
The Group participates in a competitive market with new technology developments, property market that are more attractive to the Groups f Continually monitoring and undertaking regular reviews of whichmay impact its ability to offer the best service to customers and members.
consumers and members, resulting in fewer consumers competitor strategies that are built into the regular business using the Groups websites or mobile applications, aloss planning cycle.
Zoopla Property Group Plc zpg.
