Strategic report Principal risks Centamin takes a number of measures to mitigate risks associated with its underlying operational and exploration activity which are monitored and evaluated regularly.
Principal risks affecting the Centamin Group Risks identified are rated in two distinct categories, probability of occurrence and overall impact on The exploration for and development of metals and mineral the Company.
resources, together with the construction and development of mining operations is a speculative activity that involves a Both categories are rated as high H, medium M or low high degree of risk.
L. The first category concerns how likely the risk is to occur and the second is based on the relative impact on Centamin conducts a variety of risk assessments throughout the Company if the risk did occur.
This is balanced by the the year, which are reviewed by the Audit and Risk mitigation steps in place.
Committee and the Board in accordance with best practice guidelines and in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and relevant Canadian requirements.
Centamin takes a number of measures to mitigate risks associated with its underlying operational and exploration activity which are monitored and evaluated regularly.
Due to the nature of these inherent risks, it is not possible to give absolute assurance that mitigating actions will be wholly effective.
The descriptions below describe the current status of the key risks affecting Centamin and its operational and exploration activities together with the measures to mitigate risk and the preserved risk by management.
Assessed risks Principal risks Principal risks Corporate risk register Operational risk assessment register Business continuity planning Open pit mining Underground mining Process plant Supply and warehouse Information technology HSES environment Low Medium High Exploration Site security Advanced exploration Likelihood of occurrence The table above shows the risk matrix structure and review and hierarchy 42 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Impact to stakeholders Low Medium High Management and Audit and Management Risk Committee Board review review Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Risk category Description of potential risks Mitigation commentary Loss of The Sukari project currently constitutes Centamins main mineral Mitigating factors include continued longer revenues due to resource and sole mineral reserve and nearterm production and term growth and expansion through single project revenue.
The Project itself has two distinct ore sources open pit and exploration and acquisition targets both dependency for underground, the processing plant has two separate flotation circuits inside and outside of Egypt.
The regional nearterm revenues and two separate power stations.
Whilst one project the nature of exploration of the licence portfolio in Burkina the design of the plant provides adequate mitigation and reduces Faso and Cte dIvoire continues on the the relative likelihood of dependence compared to a single layer existing 1.92Moz Indicated and 1.33Moz Likelihood: medium plant design.
Impact: high However, there is still a risk of any adverse development affecting the Until further production growth beyond progress of the Sukari Project such as, but not limited to, restrictions Sukari is identified the potential impact on operating, import and export permissions, unusual and unexpected remains high, however, safeguarding the geologic formations, seismic activity, rock bursts, caveins, flooding project is paramount to the Company and and other conditions involved in the drilling and removal of material, the required systems, policies and practices any of which could result in damage to, or destruction of, mines and are in place to identify, assess and reduce other producing facilities, or any other event leading to a reduction in these threats.
production or closure of mines or other producing facilities, damage to life or property, environmental damage, hiring suitable personnel and engineering contractors, or securing supply agreements on commercially suitable terms.
Sukari Project SGM is owned jointly by PGM and EMRA, with equal board Mitigating factors also include ensuring joint venture risk representation, whilst responsibility for the daytoday management of cooperative and timely correspondence and and relationship SGM rests with the general manager, who is appointed by PGM.
The maintaining good relations with EMRA.
with EMRA board of SGM operates by way of simple majority.
As such, should the board of SGM be unable to reach consensus on a matter requiring boardlevel approval or in the event of any dispute arising between Likelihood: medium PGM and EMRA, which PGM is unable to amicably resolve, it may have Impact: medium to participate in arbitration or other proceedings to resolve the dispute, which could have a material and adverse effect on Centamins business, results of operations, financial performance and prospects.
Any dispute with EMRA may adversely affect Centamins ability to manage the Sukari Project in the most effective way.
Such a dispute could arise under the cost recovery and profit share provisions of the Sukari Concession Agreement.
The successful management of the Sukari Gold Mine is in part dependent on maintaining a good working relationship with EMRA.
The Group has regular meetings with officials from EMRA and invests time in liaising with relevant ministry and other governmental representatives.
Management and the Board of Directors believe the Group has a positive and constructive working relationship with EMRA.
The Group complies with all terms and conditions of the Concession Agreement covering the Sukari Gold Mine.
EMRA has equal representation on the Board of Sukari Gold Mines and is involved to that extent in approving and auditing all work programmes and expenditures.
EMRA inspectors are closely involved in monitoring all aspects of the Sukari operations.
Current discussions with EMRA are focused on determining the exact timing and quantum of the first payment of profit sharing for Sukari and the interpretation of certain provisions of the Concession Agreement.
Centamin has shown its willingness to assist EMRA through prepayments in relation to future profit share made in 2013 and 2014.
Whilst the impact of any dispute could have the potential to be problematic, management believes there is a low probability of a material deterioration in relationships with EMRA.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 43 Strategic report Principal risks continued Risk category Description of potential risks Mitigation commentary Failure to achieve Centamin currently prepares estimates of future gold production for Whilst there can be no certainties, production its ongoing development of the Sukari Gold Mine.
There can be no production to date has provided confidence estimates assurance that Centamin will achieve its production estimates and such in managements estimation and mine failure could have a material and adverse effect on Centamins future planning methods and with the expanded cash flows, profitability, results of operations and financial condition.
processing plant becoming fully operational Likelihood: low The realisation of production estimates are dependent on, amongst in 2014, the prospect of improvements in Impact: medium other things: the accuracy of mineral reserve and resource estimates: reliable forecasting is increased the risk of the accuracy of assumptions regarding ore grades and recovery rates: failure to meet production estimates has ground conditions including hydrology : physical characteristics of been reduced from high to moderate likely ores: the presence or absence of particular metallurgical characteristics: occurrence.
the accuracy of estimated rates and costs of mining ore haulage, the The impact on the Company and investors availability of suitable machinery and equipment and consumables remains moderate, as failure to achieve including access to and permitting for sufficient quantities of production estimates can adversely affect ammonium nitrate and related blasting products, skilled labour and the profitability of the Company and its processing capacity and all logistics for consumables and parts.
2014 due to various factors previously disclosed it was necessary to reduce the guidance for 2014 and this also had an impact on the guidance for 2015.
Reserve and Mineral resource and reserve figures are prepared by Centamin Group Management has implemented processes resource estimates personnel, with the assistance of independent geologists.
By their to continuously monitor and evaluate the nature, mineral resources and reserves are estimates based on a range current life of the Sukari Gold Mine, mine of assumptions, including geological, metallurgical technical and plans and production targets.
The most Likelihood: medium economic factors.
There can be no guarantee that the anticipated recent technical update was completed in Impact: low tonnages or grades expected by Centamin will be achieved.
the Form 43101F1 dated 30 January 2014 and is available at www.
This took into account the latest drill results, higher cost environment and the timing of the Stage 4 commissioning.
Whilst there are no certainties, production to date has provided confidence in managements estimation and mine planning methods.
Currency and gold A significant portion of Centamins operating expenses are incurred Centamin manages its exposure to gold price risk in US dollars, Australian dollars, Egyptian pounds and Great British price fluctuations by retaining a focus on pounds, whilst its revenues from gold sales are in US dollars.
keeping operating costs as low as possible.
Furthermore, Centamin does not currently maintain any facilities for However, the risks relating to gold price Likelihood: medium hedging its exposure to currencies or the price of gold.
reductions remain high, as it is the Groups Impact: high policy not to hedge its gold price exposure.
Any appreciation in currencies other than US dollars in which the Group The Group has not entered into forward incurs material expenses or adverse fluctuations in the gold spot price, foreign exchange contracts.
Natural hedges could have a material and adverse effect on Centamins business, results are utilised wherever possible to offset of operations, financial performance and prospects.
Litigation risks Centamins finances, and its ability to operate in Egypt, may be severely In order to mitigate this risk Centamin has: adversely affected by current and any future litigation proceedings and a engaged appropriate legal advice and it is possible that further litigation could be initiated against Centamin continues to actively pursue its legal rights Likelihood: medium at any time.
Centamin is currently involved in litigation that relates both with respect to the existing litigation and Impact: high to a the validity of its exploitation lease at Sukari and b the price at its legal advisers believe that Centamin which it can purchase Diesel Fuel Oil.
will ultimately be successful in both of these cases: and b management and the Companys legal advisers monitor both activity in court and local media for signs of any litigation that may threaten its operations, finances or prospects.
The potential for serious impact should be balanced against Centamins adherence to local laws and agreements, as well as the Egyptian governments support of Centamins investment and the new law 32 of 2014 that should protect Centamin against litigation of this nature as well the fact that Egypt and Australia have in place a bilateral investment treaty.
44 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Risk category Description of potential risks Mitigation commentary Political risk Centamins exposure to production and exploration activities are Centamin actively monitors legal and primarily in Egypt, a country which has been subject to civil and political developments in Egypt, West military disturbance in the last two years.
There is no assurance that Africa and Ethiopia and actively engages in Likelihood: medium future political and economic conditions in Egypt will not result in the dialogue with relevant government and legal Impact: high government of Egypt adopting different policies respecting foreign policy makers to discuss all key legal and development and ownership of mineral resources.
Any such change in regulatory developments.
policy may result in changes in laws affecting ownership of assets, use In respect to the Companys operations of explosives, tenure and mineral concessions, taxation, royalties, rates in Egypt, the potential for serious impact of exchange, environmental protection, labour relations, repatriation of should be balanced against the Egyptian income and return of capital, which may affect both Centamins ability governments support of Centamins to undertake exploration, development and operational activities in investment and contribution to both revenue respect of future properties as well as its ability to continue to explore, and development of the mining industry.
develop and operate those properties in respect of which it has In respect to West Africa and Ethiopia, obtained mineral exploration and exploitation rights to date.
Egypt also policy has developed over many years to has limited experience of large scale mining operations and current laws encourage foreign investment and the do not necessarily reflect current international practices for example in development of mining operations, which relation to 24 hour blasting techniques.
continues to be the focus of governments The Concession Agreement with EMRA and the Egyptian government, in these regions.
was declared into Egyptian Law No.
222 of 1994 which further protects the Companys licence rights.
The Law received full parliamentary approval as required by Egyptian law.
In 2014, Centamin acquired ASXlisted Ampella Mining Limited and now operates on exploration licences in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
Centamin continues to operate on its existing exploration licences in the North of Ethiopia and also on licences held in the south and west of Ethiopia through the tenements held through the joint venture with Alecto Minerals plc.
There is no assurance that future political and economic conditions in these countries will not result in the governments adopting different policies in respect to foreign development and ownership of exploration and exploitation licences.
