40 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The following risks, both short and long term, could impact our future performance.
The list is not exhaustive and items are not prioritised.
The list, and the nature of the risks, may change during the year.
Health, safety, environment and security HSES Political, regulatory and compliance Risk climate Strategic priorities Risk climate No Risk has change increased What are the risks?
How do we manage these risks?
There are inherent hazards in our The management of HSES risk is The markets in which we operate are operations, in particular those relating overseen by the Board and Executive subject to detailed legislation and to the integrity of our physical operating Committee and remains one of our core regulation across different jurisdictions.
assets and to oil and gas exploration, priorities with a continued focus across This complex structure is continually production, transportation and storage all our assets and operations.
evolving and any changes or uncertainty, and power generation.
This includes or ineffective or incomplete implementation We undertake regular reviews and non-controlled interests in organisations of any new obligations could adversely independent assessments of the with whom we contract.
The management affect our business.
processes in place to manage these of these assets is also subject to various risks to ensure they remain effective and A worsening of the international political laws, regulations and permits.
This includes any climate increases the possibility of In addition, our engineers visit customer third parties involved in our operations sanctions or other trade limiting actions premises to undertake essential repair and building strong relationships and that could impact our ability to source and maintenance work on gas and supporting any local communities we work commodities.
Political and regulatory electrical installations, appliances and within.
We also continue to invest in training direction will play a major part in our plumbing and drain services.
to ensure we maintain safe operating continued progress.
Future LNG exports practices in both our upstream and from our gas facility project in North Security events such as malicious attacks, downstream businesses.
America could face US government criminal or activist activity can also cause limitations or refusal.
Security intelligence and operating procedures, together with crisis Following the 2014 Scottish referendum, Failure to manage risks arising from these management and business continuity there is uncertainty over the new powers, assets and operations could result in major plans, are regularly evaluated and tested including areas such as fuel poverty and injuries or loss of life, significant disruption to provide assurance that we are capable energy efficiency, that will be devolved to production or services, damage to our of responding promptly and adequately to Scotland and also any changes that reputation and environmental damage.
could be made to the tax system in The costs related to the recovery, clean up Scotland compared to the rest of the UK.
or any resultant litigation could have a Further information on our safety activities material financial impact.
and performance can be found in How The lead-up to the UK general election has We Do Business on page 21. and could continue to result in consumer Insurance proceeds may not be adequate group lobbying, political statements and to fully cover all liabilities, lost revenue or Looking forward manifesto pledges that do not translate increased expenses resulting from a major Delivery of process safety improvement well into considered policy.
This could incident, particularly involving oil and gas plans in our upstream business.
increase the pressure on regulators to act, exploration and production activities or Increased volume of smart meter resulting in sharp fluctuations in investor the nuclear fleet.
confidence, an increase in the cost of Compliance with laws, regulations capital and a reduction in the credit and permits, or changes to existing worthiness of energy buyers.
commitments, could significantly impact the cost of operation and make it uneconomic to continue managing certain assets.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Innovate to drive growth and service excellence Integrate our natural gas business, linked to our core markets Increase our returns through efficiency and continued capital discipline More on strategic priorities 17 Political, regulatory and compliance Trust, perception and customer service Strategic priorities Risk climate Strategic priorities No change The CMA market investigation is due to What are the risks?
conclude at the end of 2015 and could The challenges of day-to-day costs of living, We remain focused on providing result in recommendations that are including energy, have had a very negative affordable energy and excellent service, unfavourable to our business model.
impact on the publics perception of energy working to deliver a fair, simplified and Ofgem is also focused on increasing suppliers.
The fall in wholesale energy transparent offering to consumers and transparency over energy company prices and the timing of the reduction in protecting the most vulnerable, fuel-poor finances, as well as increasing pressure consumers bills, has further heightened households through initiatives to improve to lower retail energy bills as wholesale political and media attention in this area.
energy efficiency or with financial advice energy prices have decreased.
This is not only a concern for our customers and aid.
Through improved customer but also damages investor confidence, billing and CRM systems, taking the How do we manage these risks?
increasing the prospect of potential further lead on smart metering and developing Our Group business principles, policy government or regulatory intervention at new innovative products, we help put framework and corporate responsibility a time when substantial investment is customers in control of their energy framework govern how we conduct required to secure supplies of energy.
consumption and reduce carbon our affairs.
In 2014, we led the industry Media attention and the position taken We are committed to an open, transparent in deciding to end the auto-rollover of by political parties in the run-up to the UK and competitive UK energy market that contracts at renewal for our business general election could also lead to further provides choice for consumers.
uncertainty, as the political consensus that the industry in putting our customers in existed over key questions of energy To help people today and secure energy charge of their energy consumption policy has broken down.
for tomorrow, we engage with NGOs, through innovative products such as our consumer and customer groups, political TM Tariff Checker and Hive Active Heating.
Customers may switch supplier if they parties, regulators, charities and other experience unacceptable customer We proactively engage with our stakeholders to understand their views service levels or if it is perceived that stakeholders, including government, and concerns, working together to identify we are failing to maintain service quality.
legislators and regulators in order to shape solutions to help reduce bills and improve proposals and manage risks.
We work The increased use of social media allows transparency to help rebuild trust in the with regulators to find a better approach customers and consumer groups to industry.
We have entered into initiatives, to intervention that agrees clear targets, engage, share views and take part in direct including our partnership with Shelter, for example switching times or complaint action and other campaigns more readily and the launch last year of the Centrica handling, against which we could than before.
Poor perception of the backed pioneering social impact demonstrate progress.
We work with Centrica brands, our service levels or investment fund Ignite.
political parties to develop a consensus on our level of transparency could undermine We actively manage our reputation with a energy policy that supports the transition trust in us and lead to campaigns for number of different stakeholders including to a secure, low cost, low carbon UK.
change, as well as challenges in attracting customers, investors, opinion-formers, and retaining new customers.
employees, the media, governments and Looking forward Hydraulic fracturing in the UK together government agencies, political parties, Decision and any resulting remedial with the Groups exploration licence in and regulatory and trade union bodies.
actions from the CMA energy Norwegian waters close to the Arctic could market investigation.
Looking forward cause adverse publicity and damage to Media and political effect of the UK our brands as we explore opportunities general election.
for unconventional energy supply and generation or related technologies as part Progressing with development of of our business strategy.
our UK hydraulic fracturing interest.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 42 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Strategic growth Risk climate Strategic priorities Risk has increased In the UK, gas demand is forecast to We continue to seek cost efficiency What are the risks?
continue to decline over the next decade through innovation and investment in Despite positive signs of recovery in the with the emergence of smart connected systems, positioning ourselves to deliver UK, uncertainty remains in the global home solutions and electricity demand is targets whilst maintaining a stable platform economy and the economic sentiment forecast to decline by a smaller amount or for investment.
could impact many parts of our business.
The retail energy environment The way we heat, power and light our The UK market faces potential pressure in is highly competitive across residential homes is changing through a combination both the run-up to the UK general election and business segments as well as energy of environmental and financial concerns and in the policy decisions taken by the services, including new business areas, and the ease of use and prevalence of next government.
such as smart enabled applications.
The The UK is also becoming increasingly In the UK, the number of small suppliers investment we are making in smart dependent on gas imports and, as a result, has grown significantly and we have seen connected homes through smart meters, international energy prices.
increasing levels of switching for the supply personalised customer energy usage of energy and services.
We could see reports, smart and time of use tariffs, Growth in our North American downstream heightened competitive pressures as new applications for remote heating control business will also be dependent in part on players, such as insurance companies, and US appliance rental programmes has the successful integration of a number of telecom companies, supermarkets and allowed us to create greater consumer newly acquired businesses.
other large retail companies enter the visibility and control over energy The current political debate has services market and seek to strengthen consumption.
Our innovative products will exacerbated significant uncertainty in the their positions.
The value of customer data radically alter the way we operate and we UK energy landscape.
This could impact has increased and the widening range of continue to lead the industry as we look future power, storage and upstream virtual interaction with customers through to develop connected boiler technology.
investment and the attractiveness of the digital media, smart technology, the In 2014 we bought the former state-owned UK energy supply business.
internet and mobile devices plays a greater Irish energy company Bord Gis Energy role in the retail energy sector.
A number of emerging technologies and as we continue our focus on entering new innovations have the potential to be Climate change, new technologies and deregulated markets.
We will look to disruptive to our business.
In our upstream global economic conditions may be subject expand a services capability in this new business, we face competition in to circumstances beyond our control market and introduce some of our developing and applying new technology resulting in an adverse impact on our established smart technology and to maximise recovery, in making strategic growth.
products for the benefit of our new unconventional sources of oil and gas customer base.
economic and in generating power through How do we manage these risks?
We continue to pursue a range of options Looking forward across the energy chain and in different Impact of new market entrants Improved energy efficiency and changing geographies to both deepen our customer community, small, unconventional customer behaviour as a result of greater relationships and secure our future energy and existing.
environmental awareness, reaction to past requirements.
We remain committed to Impact of technology and innovation.
price increases and long-term weather developing diverse alternative sources of patterns have led to a reduction in energy supply and continue to explore for shale demand in our downstream business.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Commodity costs Risk climate Strategic priorities Risk has increased In 2014, we saw a significant fall in We continue to selectively invest in assets What are the risks?
commodity prices, particularly in the second around our existing hubs, while managing A significant proportion of our profitability half of the year, impacting the profitability of costs, looking to divest non-core and and price competitiveness is dependent our UK businesses.
In the US, the extreme uneconomic assets, delivering new projects upon our ability to manage exposure to weather of the polar vortex caused and purchasing stakes in other assets.
increasingly volatile world energy markets.
significant market volatility in electricity and Commodity prices can fluctuate based on a We continue to secure energy contracts, natural gas prices.
Commodity price large number of factors including supply and invest in low carbon and gas-fired power increases or decreases may require us to demand, as well as political and economic generation and purchase gas and oil change the price at which we sell energy factors.
Current international political factors producing assets to develop our portfolio, to our customers on variable tariffs.
We may may trigger an expectation of or actual support downstream operations through not be able to pass through all increases disruption in supplies.
contractual arrangements, asset in commodity prices to customers in a ownership and make progress accessing The price of gas in the UK market is given year.
Where we do pass increased new markets and securing new sources particularly important for us given we supply commodity prices on, or if we fail to pass of gas.
This enables us to secure energy a significant proportion of Britains gas on decreased commodity prices, customers supplies for the future whilst sheltering needs.
As the country secures an increasing may seek to switch to competitors.
customers from volatility in the wholesale proportion of gas from abroad, its price and Commodity price decreases may reduce gas market.
availability will be increasingly shaped by profits and over the longer term may make international forces, combined with the Looking forward certain exploration and development additional challenge of transitioning to lower Impact of sustained downward pressure projects and existing operating assets carbon generation.
Assets, including goodwill, Shale gas has already transformed the US may be impaired if future cash flows from energy market where gas prices have fallen such assets are insufficient to cover their to historic lows.
The low cost of natural gas cost on the balance sheet.
may result in new market entrants and cause margins to tighten.
Shale gas could further How do we manage these risks?
influence global energy markets over time, We have an active forward buying and in particular liquefied natural gas LNG, selling programme to mitigate the risks of which is becoming an increasingly important sudden commodity price movements and source of natural gas in the UK.
track supply chain risks to ensure security of supply.
Seasonal variations and economic conditions make it difficult to forecast future Strategic investment decisions are made energy demand, leading to significant within a capital allocation framework that uncertainties around commodity prices and tests projected returns against various the potential to result in a surplus of gas commodity price scenarios and are which cannot be sold profitably in the rigorously evaluated against Board-approved wholesale market or with short commodity criteria prior to commitment.
positions that cannot be covered at a cost that can be passed on to customers.
The Group also has a number of contractual capacity contracts, the economic value of which depends on market prices.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 44 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Change management Information systems and security Risk climate Strategic priorities Risk climate No Risk has change increased We have a defined capital allocation What are the risks?
framework against which to review business The successful delivery of business Our business operations rely on asset and investment performance and will change is fundamental to our future information systems maintaining a high be increasingly selective in our investments, success and includes organisational, degree of availability, integrity and security, directing capital towards projects based cultural and technical transformation.
including those from third-party providers.
on their ability to deliver business benefits The delivery of certain large change With the increasing digitisation of against the framework.
information, the use of social media We have a dedicated project management Planning to deliver too much change and the continually evolving external directorate to improve governance of large could result in a stretch on resources, cyberthreat landscape, corporate capital change programmes undertaken undermine system integrity, cost more organisations are targets for malicious in our upstream business.
Dedicated than originally planned or take longer and unauthorised attempts to access programme and project managers are than estimated to implement.
Our businesses could be assigned to all major change initiatives programmes could also suffer from quality compromised by an incident arising from and apply defined methodologies and issues and planned benefits may not be the accidental or deliberate exposure tools, together with defined governance realised or individual products as widely of sensitive data or intellectual property, processes, supported by both functional accepted as anticipated.
inadvertent or deliberate changes to data and business unit teams.
or changes in asset control systems.
The scale of change in our downstream As part of our ambition to lead the energy business is significant.
Delays or Attempts to appropriately collect, secure industry and have the strong future we challenges with changes to billing and and dispose of information now face are capable of, we embrace innovative other systems, the implementation of far greater scrutiny from regulators, technology in our product offerings to smart connected home products in the customers and employees.
Information customers, our IT systems and the way in UK and US and integration of a number security breaches could seriously affect which we operate our business.
We have of acquisitions could adversely affect our our reputation, lead to legal action implemented new billing and CRM systems operations, reputation and financial and regulatory sanctions and system in our energy and services businesses position if not successfully delivered.
outages that could cause financial and in the UK and North America.
We regularly review our assets, developed new products that put UK and investments and organisational structures, EU, US and Canadian data privacy US customers in greater control of their seeking to divest or change those that requirements and proposed amendments, energy consumption and we have led no longer meet expected returns, to keep as well as regulatory changes, increase the the smart meter roll-out in the UK.
our cost base as low as possible.
These requirements around public notification of changes can involve difficult decisions Looking forward any data breach and also the ability of the for our people and there is a risk that The delivery of a number of UK and regulator to impose associated fines or industrial relations could deteriorate.
Embedding new billing and customer How do we manage these risks?
Change activity is managed through a combination of programme and project boards and is regularly reviewed at both the business unit and executive level.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Information systems and security People Strategic priorities Risk climate Strategic priorities Risk has increased We engage with trade unions on What are the risks?
restructuring and issues that could impact The attraction, retention, development Our information security strategy terms and conditions with clear and open and succession of senior management seeks to integrate information system, processes to promote an environment and individuals with key skills are critical personnel and physical aspects, overseen of trust and honesty.
factors in the successful execution by the Information Risk Steering Group, of strategy.
which reports to the Group Risk We provide channels for employees Management Committee.
to discuss concerns, including Cultural transformation, ambitious whistleblowing, and regularly review the technical-change programmes, changes We seek to detect and investigate threats procedures in place to support them in to our current structure and business and incidents, including engaging with the delivery and development of their role.
operations could all result in challenges key technology partners and suppliers, with attraction and retention for key roles to ensure potentially vulnerable systems We continually promote wellbeing and across the business and have an adverse are identified.
equality through processes and impact on the engagement of our people.
campaigns to improve the vitality and fair We regularly evaluate the adequacy of treatment of all our people.
Ineffective trade union relationships could our infrastructure and IT security controls, result in the threat of industrial action in undertake employee awareness and Looking forward our upstream business operations and training and test our contingency and Engagement and development of senior engineering workforce.
Insufficient capability and capacity, at a We work collaboratively with working Identification and succession of British time when we are subject to high levels groups across the energy industry and Gas Managing Director and Chief of public scrutiny, could limit our ability public and private sectors.
to exploit opportunities and or realise These measures allow for controls and the full value of investments.
responses to be put in place that are both effective and proportionate, including How do we manage these risks?
cybersecurity crisis management and We have a clearly defined people strategy business continuity plans that have been based on developing the right culture and evaluated and tested to provide assurance engagement, talent development, training that they are capable of responding and reward and recognition.
promptly and adequately to any such We regularly review our organisational events, whilst recognising the evolving capability, critical business areas, nature of the threat landscape.
reward strategies for key skills, talent Looking forward management and learning and Compliance with the 2014 EU Data development programmes.
We also Protection Regulation and introduction perform external benchmarking to ensure of the 2014 EU Cyber Mandate.
we are attracting and retaining the talent we need to be competitive.
Increase in the Smart Metering and Connected Homes programme with the inherent risks associated with sensitive data.
The Strategic Report was approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 19 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Grant Dawson General Counsel & Company Secretary 19 February 2015 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
