6 50 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy How we manage risk Our risks We need to manage risk so we can meet our objectives, build shareholder ike all businesses, we are aected by a number value and promote our stakeholderso interests.
We have a group-wide risk management process, the four stages of which are shown below.
These may be impacted by internal and external factors, some of which we cannot control.
Many of our risks are akin to those felt Identication by other companies of similar scale and{operation.
Monitoring Evaluation Business activities Principal risks and uncertainties This section features some of the principal risks and uncertainties aecting us, but it is not exhaustive.
These risks have the potential to impact our business, brand, assets, revenue, profits, liTuidity or capital Response resources.
The principal risks we described last year have evolved, and so has our response to them.
Changes over the year Our Enterprise Risk Management framework provides reasonable In 2012 13, we improved the way we manage risk through applying but cannot give absolute assurance that significant risks are identied further scenario planning and war gaming techniTues increasing our and addressed.
There may be some risks which are unknown to us at assurance over risk management within the lines of business and present.
And there may be some that we consider less significant now refreshing our guidance and risk management toolkit.
This year we but become more important later.
made{further improvements including As in the prior year, external factors present both risks and opportunities, both to our business and to others.
Inevitably, there are uncertainties Enhanced risk management training in terms of the impact to BT should Scotland vote in favour of We have signicantly refreshed our risk management training and rolled independence in September 2014.
We have performed a high-level this out across the group, reaching a wide audience of colleagues across risk assessment of what those implications may be, and will continue to 26 countries.
monitor the issue, seeking clarification on key Tuestions from relevant parties where possible.
Better linkage between our investments and risks As well as considering risks within investment cases, we have more External factors drive a number of the risks that we face and we focus formally linked our investments and our principal risks by reTuesting our eorts on predicting and mitigating these, while at the same time that{investment case proposals reect any impact they may have on seeking to capitalise on opportunities that may emerge.
In the principal risks section below, we talk about what we are doing to stop our main risks materialising, or to limit their impact.
Our principal Proactive assessment of emerging risks risks and uncertainties should be considered in conjunction with our risk Building on our regular hori]on scanning, the Group Risk Panel has management process, the forward-looking statements in this document commissioned and reviewed specic analysis of emerging risks from a and the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements.
number of possible future geo-political events.
This has improved our understanding of potential impacts and improved our readiness through ou can read the cautionary statement regarding early mitigation and contingency planning.
192 forward-looking statements on page Enterprise Risk Management framework Line of business and Audit & service unit audit Risk Committee & risk committees Line of business and service Group Risk Operating Board unit leadership teams Panel Committee Our lines of business and our service The Group Risk Panel supports The Operating Committee identies, The Board has overall responsibility unit follow our process for managing the Board and the Operating evaluates, responds to and monitors for making sure we manage risks risk as part of our Enterprise Risk Committee.
significant risks are reported appropriately.
It regularly reviews Management framework.
That it reviews the Group Risk Register and monitored through the Group either directly, or through the Audit means identifying and responding which summarises those risks of Risk Register.
The Operating Risk Committee, how we are doing to the key risks to their business.
greatest signicance across our Committee assigns a management across the group, in our lines of They{record the risks in a register business, considers the inclusion owner to take charge of monitoring business and in our service unit.
for their leadership teams to review.
of new or emerging risks, and and managing each risk.
It monitors Audit risk committees in each line recommends ways to tackle them.
It these risks through regular detailed of business, and our service unit, also oversees the work of the group reviews as well as six-monthly ensure this process is eective.
reviews of the Group Risk Register.
The Strategic Report 51 Delivering our strategy Our principal risks Security and resilience Major contracts The volume of trac through our systems and networks is always We have a number of complex and high-value national and growing, and our customerso tolerance of service interruption is multinational contracts.
The revenue arising from, and the profitability reducing as the world becomes increasingly dependent on information of, these contracts are subject to a number of factors including technology.
Expectations are even higher when we stream live variation in cost achievement of cost reductions anticipated in the action through BT Sport.
We have a responsibility to many millions contract pricing both in terms of scale and time delays in the delivery of customers, both business and consumer, to safeguard their or achievement of agreed milestones owing to factors either within electronic information and to maintain the continuity of our services.
or outside our control changes in customerso reTuirements, budgets, We also need to safeguard the availability and security of our own strategies or businesses and the performance of our suppliers.
Any of data and intellectual property.
This all reTuires the highest levels of these factors could make a contract less profitable or even loss-making.
operational resilience and security, which can be threatened at any The degree of risk generally varies depending on the scope and life of time by malicious cyber-attacks, damage or theft of copper cable the contract and is typically higher in its early stages.
Some customer and eTuipment, vandalism, sabotage, extreme weather, component contracts reTuire investment in the early stages, which is expected overload, loss of power and human error.
to be recovered over the life of the contract.
Major contracts often Impact involve the implementation of new systems and communications A breach of our security, or compromise of data or resilience aecting networks, transformation of legacy networks and the development our operations, or those of our customers, could lead to an extended of new technologies.
The recoverability of these upfront costs may interruption to our services or even aect national infrastructure.
be impacted by delays or failure to meet milestones.
Substantial Such failure may lead to a loss of customer confidence, termination of performance risk exists in these contracts.
contracts, loss of revenue, and lower cash generation through penalties Impact and unplanned costs of restoration and improvement.
Additional Failure to manage or meet our commitments under these contracts, reputational damage and financial loss may arise from a legal or as well as changes in customerso reTuirements, budgets, strategies or contractual failing such as breaching data protection or handling businesses, may lead to a reduction in our expected future revenue, reTuirements.
Failure or interruption of data transfer could also have a profitability and cash generation.
Unexpectedly high costs associated significant adverse eect on our business.
with the delivery of contracts could also negatively impact profitability.
Changes over the last year We may lose revenue due to the merger, acTuisition or business failure The external cyber threat continues to rise, as shown by the amount of customers, or due to contract termination, and contracts may of data trac blocked by our malware lters and intrusion detection therefore become loss-making.
Failure to replace the revenue and systems, and by the number of attempts to disrupt the websites that earnings lost from those customers could lead to an overall reduction in we manage.
Criminal use of targeted phishing messages and other group revenue, profitability and cash ow.
deception techniTues are seen as the fastest growing risk.
Government Changes over the last year agencies around the world have raised their threat warning levels Tough market conditions and increased competitive pressures continue for cyber-attacks as larger numbers of credit and debit card records to persist in many global regions.
In some regions we are experiencing are reported stolen.
In response, we have reinforced our cyber higher growth in volume of business due to previous investments.
This defences and automated them wherever possible.
We have stepped changes the risk landscape and the focus of risk support and review.
up campaigns to educate and train our people in security awareness, In the year, the increasing number of broadband delivery contracts vigilance and regulatory obligations.
Access rights to our premises, with local authorities through the BDUK programme is of particular systems and data continue to be closely monitored and restricted.
While these contracts carry a dierent risk prole from our other The replacement of eTuipment that is approaching the end of its major contracts, we are applying our established risk governance and service life provides an opportunity to invest in new, more resilient reporting processes to ensure that any risks and mitigation activities facilities.
As new technologies allow us to rationalise our property and are identied and reported to management.
systems estate, the need for greater fall-back capacity increases.
A comprehensive review of our disaster recovery capability is therefore underway, focusing on our most critical systems, databases and Risk mitigation exchanges.
We have a group-wide risk governance and reporting framework and line of business local governance and risk management processes to track key risks and mitigation activities.
This governance has Risk mitigation been enhanced through the establishment in BT Global Services of Our security strategy aims to prevent, deter and minimise the a Contract Centre of Excellence, an additional Contract Compliance conseTuences of attacks.
Our defences include physical protection Function, and a Contract Bid Governance Board.
Assurance is also of our assets, encryption of data, control of access rights, real-time provided through independent audits and at an individual contract analysis and sharing of intelligence, and continuous monitoring for level through an independent review programme.
Progress on risks and intrusion, modications and anomalies.
We can rapidly adjust rewalls mitigation actions agreed at such independent reviews are monitored to automatically block most malicious data trac.
Our resilience and reported to relevant senior managers to ensure progress can be stems from a combination of formal business continuity planning, tracked.
well-tested, rapid and exible responses and a widely distributed network with inherent spare capacity.
We have a rolling programme Development programmes are in place to improve our peopleos skills of major incident simulations to test and rene our crisis management and ability to identify and manage risk and to ensure learning from procedures.
Together, these measures reduce the likelihood of a major previous experience is passed on in training programmes.
The scope incident and ensure that any potential interruption or damage can be and availability of training opportunities continues to improve in line contained and dealt with as Tuickly as possible.
with BT-wide learning and development initiatives.
Delivering our strategy 6 52 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy Pensions Growth in a competitive market We have a significant funding obligation in relation to our dened We operate in markets which are characterised by high levels of benefit pension schemes and operate a large dened benefit pension change strong and new competition declining prices and in some scheme in the UK, the BT Pension Scheme BTPS.
markets declining revenues technology substitution market and product convergence customer churn and regulatory intervention to The BTPS faces similar risks to other dened benefit schemes.
Future promote competition and reduce wholesale prices.
low investment returns, high ination, longer life expectancy and regulatory changes may all result in the cost of funding the BTPS A significant proportion of our revenue and profit is generated in the becoming a significant burden on our financial resources.
UK where the overall telecoms market has been in decline in real terms, despite strong volume growth in new services.
Revenue from our calls Following conclusion of the last actuarial funding valuation in May and lines services to consumers and businesses has historically been 2012, the valuation documentation was submitted to the Pensions in decline but new broadband and connectivity markets are growing.
The final Court decision in the Crown Guarantee case, Our ability to deliver profitable revenue growth in a responsible after any appeals, will give greater clarity as to the extent to which and sustainable manner depends on us delivering on the strategic the liabilities of the BTPS are covered by a Crown Guarantee.
This will investments we are making see page 17. inform the Pension Regulatoros next steps with regards to the valuation of the Scheme.
Accordingly, as matters stand, it is uncertain as to when Impact it will conclude its review.
Failure to achieve sustainable, profitable revenue growth could erode our competitive position and reduce our profitability, cash ow and Impact ability to invest for the future.
An increase in the pension deficit at the next actuarial valuation as at 30 June 2014 may have an impact on the level of deficit payments we Changes over the last year are reTuired to make into the Scheme.
Indirectly it may also have an Despite the slight improvement in the UK economy in the year, adverse impact on our share price and credit rating.
Any deterioration customers are still cautious with their spending, especially those in our credit rating would increase our cost of borrowing and may limit small business customers not planning to make technology changes.
the availability or exibility of future funding, thereby aecting our Regulatory decisions related to charge controls have impacted ability to invest, pay dividends or repay debt as it matures.
negatively our revenue and profits.
Regulation has failed to address imbalances in the competitive playing eld between the heavily Changes over the last year regulated xed telecoms sector and other sectors such as mobile and The BTPS is aected by financial market conditions.
This means that some of our competitors in the consumer expected future returns, dierent factors are taken into account, space continue to benefit from both limited regulation of their core including yields or returns on government bonds.
Government bond business and extensive sector-specic regulation of our UK xed-line yields have remained below the levels at the last funding valuation, business.
driven by a number of factors, including the Bank of Englandos Quantitative Easing programme.
If these conditions continue and a The consumer broadband and triple-play markets remain very lower investment return assumption is adopted at the 30 June 2014 competitive.
Sky acTuired O2 Telefnica UKos consumer broadband valuation, the liabilities may increase, potentially leading to a higher business and continues to cross-sell broadband and telephony services level of deficit payments.
Virgin Media acTuired by iberty Global in the year remains strong in these markets.
In addition, the four main UK The European Commission published draft revisions to the current mobile operators launched 4G services during the year.
The proposed changes primarily focus on governance and transparency and are not expected to impact Risk mitigation the valuation of pension liabilities.
Our mitigation of this risk centres on successfully executing our In the UK, the Pensions Regulator has a new objective to consider the strategy.
We believe that delivering this strategy, with its focus impact on the sustainable growth of an employer when reviewing on delivering superior customer service, transforming our costs, funding plans.
As a result, the Pensions Regulator is revising its Code of and investing for growth, will together help us deliver sustainable, Practice which is expected to be nalised later this year.
We are investing in our business, such as in bre, content and the high-growth regions of the world.
Our extensive cost transformation programme is already delivering savings and Risk mitigation will continue to support profitability trends.
We also believe we can The investment performance and liability experience, as well as mitigate this risk by seeking changes in regulation to level the playing the associated risks and any mitigation, are regularly reviewed and eld so that we can compete eectively and benefit our customers.
monitored by both us and the BTPS Trustee.
The BTPS has a welldiversied investment strategy, which reduces the impact of adverse movements in the value of individual asset classes and helps ensure that an ecient balance of risk and return is maintained.
Our financial strength and cash generation provide a level of protection that enables variations in the funding position of the BTPS to be managed without having a material impact on the ongoing performance of our business.
The funding liabilities also include a buer against any future negative experience, as legislation reTuires that liabilities are calculated prudently.
We regularly review risk mitigation options and in April 2013, we launched an exercise to allow existing BTPS pensioners to receive a higher upfront pension, by giving up some of their future pension increases.
This exercise is now largely complete and is expected to remove the exposure in the scheme to future changes in ination on around 2.5bn of liabilities.
The Strategic Report 53 Delivering our strategy Communications industry regulation Business integrity and ethics Our activities across all the jurisdictions in which we operate can be We are committed to maintaining high standards of ethical behaviour, impacted by regulation.
In the UK where, following detailed market and have a ]ero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
We have analysis, we are found to have significant market power, Ofcom can to comply with a wide range of local and international anti-corruption reTuire us to provide wholesale services at regulated prices and service and bribery laws.
In particular, the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign levels.
It can also reTuire us to make retrospective repayments to and Corrupt Practices Act FCPA provide comprehensive anti-bribery other CPs where we are found to have set prices outside regulatory legislation.
Both have extraterritorial reach and so cover our global reTuirements, and can impose fines on us for non-compliance with the operations.
As we expand internationally, we are increasingly operating regulatory rules, including competition law.
in countries identied as having a higher risk of bribery and corruption.
We also have to ensure that we comply with trade sanctions, and Outside the UK, general licensing reTuirements can restrict the extent import and export controls.
to which we can enter markets and compete.
Regulation will also define the terms on which we can purchase key wholesale services Impact from others.
Failure by our employees or associated persons such as suppliers or agents to comply with anti-corruption and bribery and sanctions In the UK, risks can come from periodic market reviews which might legislation could result in substantial penalties, criminal prosecution introduce tighter regulatory constraints, new charge controls, or and significant damage to our reputation.
This could in turn impact our CPs disputing or complaining about our pricing, products or services.
future revenue and cash ow, the extent of which would depend on Outside the UK, regulators can investigate our licensing reTuirements the nature of the breach, the legislation concerned and any associated and whether our services comply with their rules.
Allegations of corruption or bribery, or violation of sanctions Impact regulations, could also lead to reputational and brand damage with Regulatory reTuirements and constraints can directly impact our investors, regulators and customers.
ability to compete eectively and earn revenues.
Regulatory risks are Changes over the last year highest in the UK.
Based on the latest Regulatory Financial Statements The importance of conducting business ethically is becoming for 2012 13, around 5.5bn of our revenue of which 3.0bn is to increasingly recognised across the globe as more countries introduce downstream parts of BT is from wholesale markets where we have anti-corruption and bribery legislation.
There have yet to be any been found to have significant market power and which are currently significant judgments resulting from the UK Bribery Act, but there subject to regulatory charge controls.
Most of these controls reTuire have been many significant enforcement actions brought under the US us to reduce our prices annually.
Controls are usually set for three years FCPA.
and will therefore constrain revenues during that period.
Comprehensive sanctions remain on Iran, Syria, Cuba, Sudan and North Other CPs can ask Ofcom to resolve disputes with us about current or Korea.
The European Union adopted additional restrictive measures historic prices.
Where Ofcom nds that these prices are, or have been, against the Syrian regime and new sanctions on Russia.
set at levels above those reTuired under the regulatory framework, we may need to make retrospective repayments to CPs.
Risk mitigation We may from time-to-time be reTuired to provide new services, or We have a number of controls to address risk in this area.
These include existing services on improved terms, to wholesale customers on a nona comprehensive anti-corruption and bribery programme, and nThe discriminatory basis.
This could increase our costs.
Regulation outside Way We Worko, our statement of business practices, which is available the UK can impact our revenue by limiting our ability to compete in 14 languages and was refreshed this year to give greater guidance through overly-restrictive licensing reTuirements or ineective to our people.
We ask all our people to sign up to its principles and regulation of access to other CP networks.
our anti-corruption and bribery policy.
We have specic policies covering gifts and hospitality, charitable donations and sponsorship.
Changes over the last year We run a training programme with a particular focus on roles such as Over the last year, we have seen regulatory activity in a number of procurement and sales.
areas which are summarised in Regulation on page 48.
A number of these rulings will reduce our future pricing.
We regularly assess our business integrity risks to make sure that the appropriate mitigation is in place.
We operate a condential hotline Risk mitigation which was externally reviewed during the year.
Our internal audit team We have a team of regulatory specialists including accountants and regularly runs checks on our business.
We also use external providers to economists who, together with legal experts and external advisors, carry out assessments in areas we believe to be higher risk, to ensure continuously monitor and review the scope for regulatory changes our policies are understood and the controls are functioning.
We and potential future disputes.
This team maintains a dialogue with conduct due diligence checks on third parties including suppliers and regulators and with other key inuencers to ensure our positions are agents.
Procurement contracts include anti-corruption and bribery understood and to drive for fair and proportionate regulation.
also able to appeal any regulatory decisions where we believe errors This year we implemented a policy mandating the use of our internal have been made.
shipping system to arrange all international exports.
The system conducts compliance checks and ags any orders which reTuire an export licence.
Delivering our strategy 6 54 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy Supply chain We aim to harness the capability, diversity and innovation of the global supply market to add value to our business and customers.
The integrity and continuity of our supply chain is critical to our operations and therefore a significant risk to our business.
We are committed to ensuring that all dealings with suppliers, from selection and consultation through to contracting and payment, are conducted in accordance with our trading and ethical policies.
We have a number of suppliers that we have identied as critical.
The failure of one of these suppliers to meet its obligations could cause significant harm to our business.
Impact While the si]e of the impact from a supplier failure can vary, all supplier failures typically result in an increased cost to our business and have the potential to adversely impact customer service and our brand.
In many cases, the costs associated with the failure of a critical supplier could be significant, particularly if this results in our having to change technology.
If we are unable to contract with an alternative supplier, our customer commitments could also be compromised, possibly leading to contractual breach, loss of revenue or penalties.
A failure in our supply chain to meet legal obligations or ethical expectations could adversely impact our reputation or possibly lead to censure, legal action and financial loss.
Changes over the last year Economic conditions in certain markets and geographies continue to challenge some of our suppliers.
Recent events in other markets, such as the food supply and clothing industries, have highlighted the need to explore risks further down our supply chain, beyond our immediate suppliers.
Protecting our brand from events in the supply chain, such as corrupt practices, the sourcing of conict minerals or possible human rights abuse, continue to demand a high level of focus.
Risk mitigation We conduct supplier risk analysis as part of our sourcing strategy, and where possible, take actions to reduce risk, such as through dual-sourcing where appropriate.
We operate a comprehensive in-life risk management programme that recognises the supplieros criticality to BT and checks that the appropriate level of supplier governance is in place across the group.
We regularly scan our suppliers for changes in commercial, financial, ethical, security or performance risks.
This enables emerging risks to be addressed before they develop into issues while also ensuring that business continuity plans are in place to prevent repeat events.
This approach has been complemented by controls on our low spend suppliers that ensure we achieve maximum business benefit from them, but at the same time do not contract with too many suppliers which would expose us to unnecessary risk.
By adopting these approaches, we seek to minimise the risk of not meeting our customer and legal commitments, or not complying with our ethical policies.
This helps to reduce our exposure to loss of revenue, financial penalty or any adverse impact on our brand and reputation.
The Strategic Report 55 Delivering our strategy Risk case-studies Major Contracts s From Risk to Opportunity Business Continuity for BT Sport While we have a formal and established process for managing risks in A consistent and rewarding user experience at all times, whether on individual contracts, we recognise that we also need to understand a TV, smartphone or tablet computer, is fundamental to the success those risk themes that can impact across a number of dierent of BT Sport.
ConseTuently it was important that we identied contracts.
By identifying the activities that are contributing to those potential service risks and designed measures into the technology and risk themes, and understanding the subseTuent impact on our operational processes to mitigate those risks.
We also need to be fully business, we can begin to generate improvements.
prepared to respond eectively in the event of a major outage.
One example is the service cease process when customer sites are How we managed the risk closed or changed to new locations.
We would often stop charging A dedicated Business Continuity project was set up, reporting to the the customer for the site but it would take longer than expected to BT Sport Programme Board.
Its objective was to analyse the way terminate the services provided to it such as circuits bought from we deliver BT Sport from nsporting venue to customer deviceo and third{parties.
This would result in higher than expected costs.
introduce resilience and continuity where there were possibilities for failure, for example in our network.
We also needed to confirm service How we managed the risk continuity measures were in place in our TV production facility and in Through business process re-engineering and tackling the causes of the IT systems used to deliver BT Sport, take orders and respond to delays, it was possible to reduce the average time lag to cease services network faults.
While this is a small improvement on each contract, given the volume of transactions that typically take place, the net Operational procedures used by our suppliers and ourselves were savings across all contracts are worth several million pounds a year.
They were nwalked througho by experts and updated where improvements were needed.
Emergency ncommand and controlo Outcome and lessons learnt processes to be used in crisis situations were checked and tested.
We are applying the same approach to other processes where detailed Finally, before we launched the service, a number of major nsimulationo risk analysis points to possible opportunities to improve performance exercises took place, to ensure we were ready.
Without our strong emphasis on risk reporting, management and governance, many of the underlying issues might Outcome and lessons learnt not be readily identied or targeted and the opportunity to make BT Sport was successfully launched in August 2013.
There were a eciency gains would be lost.
number of lessons learnt that we can now incorporate into our future resilience activities.
These include expanding the focus of our business continuity activities to reect our move into television production the benefit of early eective internal communications and the value of BT executives being involved in simulation exercises.
Delivering our strategy 56 The Strategic Report Group performance Mobility and future voice - changing the way people communicate Conference calling is an established part of life for businesses and other organisations For all that, experiencing the improvement in audio Tuality made possible by a new collaboration between BT and Dolby can be startling.
Peopleos voices simply sound nearer, more real.
Spatial perception is revolutionised s dial into a call and you can tell where other call participants are seated.
And thanks to a new mobile app, using the new service is becoming easier than ever, whether youore in the oce or on the move.
Workers who used the highTuality Dolby Voice spatial-audio system were almost 60% more ecient than workers who used a 60% conventional conferencing system.
TM Source: Comparisons of task eciency in face-to-face, Dolby 9oice Technology, The new Dolby Voice mobile app oers you the best experience and{traditional conference system communications.
available for joining conference calls from a mobile device.
For businesses, itos a simple, cost-eective way to{connect to Voice of the customer conference calls.
We have experienced spectacular To nd out more, visit www.
com  Tuality using BT MeetMe with Dolby 9oice.
We wish all our conference Voice from BT calls{could have such a high-Tuality The BT MeetMe with Dolby 9oice mobile app productive{experience.
strengthens our audio conferencing proposition Roopam Jain s Industry Director, Frost Sullivan and reinforces the key advantages our product oers in the marketplace.
BT MeetMe with Dolby 9oice oers what we believe to be the best collaboration experience and makes it more{cost-eective for organisations to support mobile workers.
Bas Burger s President, Americas BT Conferencing Dolby has nearly 50 years of innovation in sight and sound experiences.
They are natural partners for BT.
The new BT MeetMe with Dolby Voice service restores much of the information the brain The new Dolby Voice conference phone is the most significant needs to make conference calls feel like face-to-face meetings.
innovation in IP telephony devices in years.
It was engineered by Peopleos words are much clearer and more distinct.
You{can hear Dolby to deliver the simplest, most elegant and enjoyable way to more than one person speak at a time, allowing the{kind of natural experience conference calls that{feel like in-person meetings.
