Strategic report Managing our social and environmental impacts is central to how we do business and deliver value to our shareholders.
to reflect this, rather than reporting social and environmental P rinciPal risKs factors separately, we have integrated them within the principal risks disclosure which follows, as indicated by these social and environmental icons.
our principal key risk indicators are highlighted within How we manage the risk.
external risks risks and iMPacts HOw we Manage tHe risk MOveMent in tHe PeriOd the economic recovery and the the risk committee reviews the economic the UK recorded strong gDP ecOnOMic prospect of increasing interest environment on a quarterly basis to assess growth and falling unemployment and POlitical rates present risks and opportunities whether any changes to the economic outlook in 2013, with these trends forecast OutlOOk in property and financing markets present risks or opportunities which should to continue in 2014. this is anticipated and the businesses of our occupiers.
be reflected in the execution of our strategy.
to result in increased consumer indicators such as forecast gdP growth, demand and to be beneficial for the significant upcoming political events unemployment, business and consumer businesses of our occupiers.
risks bring risks in two areas: confidence, interest rates and inflation are to this recovery remain, including reluctance of investors and considered, as well as central bank guidance the prospect of rising interest businesses to make investment and government policy updates.
rates, geo-political conflicts and a decisions while the outcome slowdown of economic growth in We are not able to influence the outcome of remains uncertain, and emerging markets.
significant political events, but take the uncertainty on determination of the outcome, related to such events and the range of possible Political: european Parliament the impact on the case for outcomes into account when making strategic elections, the referendum on investment in the UK, and of investment and financing decisions.
scottish independence and the UK specific policies and regulation general election are all scheduled We engage public affairs consultants to ensure introduced particularly those within the next 12 months.
Beyond that we are properly briefed on the potential which directly impact real estate.
that, there is the possibility of a UK policy and regulatory implications of political referendum on membership of the events.
Where appropriate, we act with other eU.
each of these events has the industry participants to influence the debate potential to impact the appeal and on these policies.
performance of investment in the UK in general and real estate in particular, both through the related uncertainty and resultant implementation of policies and regulation.
reduction in investor demand for the risk committee reviews the property the weight of money seeking cOMMercial UK real estate may result in falls market on a quarterly basis to assess whether investment opportunities in UK PrOPerty in asset valuations and could arise any changes to the market outlook present risks commercial property, both from investOr deMand from variations in the: or opportunities which should be reflected in international and traditional the execution of our strategy.
the committee institutional sources, continues health of the UK economy: considers indicators such as the margin between to grow.
investor appetite has been attractiveness of investment property yields and borrowing costs and property further enhanced by the improving in the UK: capital growth forecasts which are considered economic outlook and increasing alongside the committee members knowledge availability of finance at low rates availability of finance: and and experience of market activity and trends.
with interest now extending beyond relative attractiveness of other prime properties and locations.
We maintain a focus on those sectors which we asset classes.
believe will deliver outperformance over the medium term benefitting from continuing occupier demand and, consequently, investor appetite.
an external event such as a civil asset risk assessments e. g. security, the evaluation of the likely catastrOPHic emergency, including a large-scale flood, environmental, health and safety.
impact of this risk on the business event terrorist attack, extreme weather performance of the group has regular security threat information service.
occurrence or environmental disaster not changed since the prior year.
could severely disrupt global markets Physical security measures at properties the Home office threat level from including property and finance and development sites.
international terrorism remains and cause significant damage and substantial.
the portfolio has asset emergency procedures reviewed disruption to British lands portfolio remained resilient to the storms and scenario tested.
and flooding experienced in the Head office business continuity plan in year with minimal damage and place and regularly tested.
38 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 strategic rePort key CHAnge FRom LAST YeAR risk exposure has increased no significant change in risk exposure risk exposure has reduced external risks risks and iMPacts HOw we Manage tHe risk MOveMent in tHe PeriOd Underlying income, rental growth the risk committee regularly reviews indicators We are seeing improving OccuPier deMand and capital performance could be of occupier demand including consumer demand for office space in and tenant adversely affected by weakening confidence surveys, employment forecasts london underpinned by increasing default occupier demand resulting from for relevant occupier sectors and erv growth take up from tMt occupiers.
variations in the health of the UK forecasts.
these are considered alongside the in retail, occupiers are becoming economy and corresponding committee members knowledge and experience more confident in the role of weakening of consumer confidence of occupier plans, trading and leasing activity physical space in an omni-channel and business activity and in guiding execution of our strategy.
With a reduced number of investment.
We have a Key occupier account programme administrations as the economy occupier failures may adversely through which we work together with our recovers, we are seeing signs impact underlying income and occupiers to find ways to best meet their evolving of increasing demand for flexible capital performance.
requirements including understanding how space in the best locations.
our stores fit with their omni-channel offer.
changing consumer and business practices including the growth We perform rigorous occupier covenant checks of internet retailing, flexible and review these on an ongoing basis so that working practices and demand we can be proactive in managing exposure for energy efficient buildings, to weaker occupiers.
new technologies, new legislation We are constantly assessing how best to and alternative locations may future proof our buildings and maintain result in earlier than anticipated sustainability briefs across the investment obsolescence of our buildings if portfolio as well as on acquisitions and evolving occupier and regulatory developments.
British land prides itself on taking a leadership position on defining and responding to environmental legislation impacting the built environment.
all our office developments are BreeaM excellent and 94% of our major retail developments are BreeaM Very good or excellent.
We have achieved significant landlord-influenced energy reductions, benefitting our occupiers see page 22 for further details.
reduced availability of property Benchmark borrowing rates and measures We have seen a continuing increase availability and financing may adversely impact of real estate credit availability are monitored in the availability of finance to cOst Of finance British lands ability to refinance by the risk committee on a quarterly basis and commercial property across a range facilities and result in weaker considered alongside committee members of sources.
financing costs remain investor demand for real estate.
awareness of financing activity in the industry near historic lows but are expected to guide our financing actions in executing to increase.
increasing finance costs would our strategy.
reduce British lands underlying income.
We maintain strong relationships with our key financing partners and advisors to maintain an awareness of financing market activity.
We maintain a diverse range of sources of finance to provide flexibility to access funding as required.
We closely monitor relevant emerging banking regulation, working with industry bodies and other relevant organisations to participate in the debate where our interests are affected.
in the current year, we contributed to the Vision for real estate finance in the UK recommendations which were drafted by a cross-industry real estate finance group.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 Strategic report P rinciPal risKs c ontinUeD our principal key risk indicators are highlighted within How we manage the risk.
internal risks risks and iMPacts HOw we Manage tHe risk MOveMent in tHe PeriOd in order to meet our strategic objectives our investment strategy is determined to be chris grigg commented, investMent we must invest in and exit from the consistent with our target risk appetite based We have been active in strategy right properties at the right time.
on the evaluation of the external environment.
delivering our investment strategy in the year.
We have increased our significant underperformance could Progress against the strategy and continuing exposure to london and the south result from inappropriate determination alignment with our risk appetite is monitored east, taking advantage of strengthening and execution of our property at each risk committee by reviewing relevant investor interest in retail across the investment strategy, including: indicators including a comparison of forecast UK to rebalance our portfolio.
as portfolio returns against the iPD benchmark.
sector selection and weighting: our 2010 development programme individual investment decisions are subject concludes we have been replenishing timing of investment and divestment to robust risk evaluation overseen by our our development pipeline.
We remain decisions: investment committee including consideration confident that our chosen sector exposure to developments: of returns relative to risk-adjusted hurdle rates.
focus will deliver outperformance over the medium term, although our sector, asset, tenant, region We foster collaborative relationships with our cooutperformance against benchmarks concentration: and investors and enter into ownership agreements may narrow in the short-term as which balance the interests of the parties.
a result of strengthening investor demand in secondary property and responsible executive: chris grigg other sectors.
as investor appetite strategic focus: intensifies we will remain disciplined in our investment approach.
RIGHT PLACES our strategy for investing in the right places is outlined on pages 18 to 23. development provides an opportunity We maintain our levels of total and speculative tim roberts commented, develOPMent for outperformance but this brings development exposure as a proportion of the We are now well advanced with it elevated risk.
The care with investment portfolio value within a target range on our 2010 development programme which we make our decisions around taking into account associated risks and the and have achieved considerable letting which schemes to develop when, as impact on key financial metrics.
reducing the risk exposure well as our execution of these projects, quarterly by the risk committee, along with on this programme has provided must reflect this.
progress of developments against plan.
us with the confidence to commit to further developments, including Development risks could adversely for each project we make a judgement about the residential-led clarges estate impact underlying income and capital apportionment of construction risk.
Where we on Piccadilly, and we are continuing performance including: retain this risk we fix costs early in the process, to progress opportunities to further subject to other market factors, with key development letting exposure: replenish our pipeline.
We are contractors subject to financial covenant review.
conscious of the prospect of rising construction timing and costs: and Pre-let targets are used to reduce development construction costs in evaluating adverse planning judgements.
letting risk where considered appropriate.
the balance of these risks is managed within responsible executives: We actively engage with the communities overall development exposure charles Maudsley, tim roberts in w hich we operate, as detailed in our metrics which are monitored community charter, to ensure that our strategic focus: across the organisation.
development activities consider the interests RIGHT for more on our development of all stakeholders.
We manage social and environmental risks across our development supply chain by engaging with our suppliers, including through our sustainability Brief for Developments and Health and safety Policy.
British Land runs a heavily outsourced our Hr strategy is designed to minimise chris grigg commented, PeOPle model which means that critical risk through: our expert people are a key business processes and decisions asset and their decisions and actions informed and skilled recruitment processes: lie in the hands of a few people.
We remain highly competitive compensation and benefits: confident in our appeal as an employer failure to recruit, develop and retain but are conscious that competition staff and Directors with the right skills people development and training: for the best people is escalating in and experience may result in significant employee engagement surveys and other our industry, mirroring the increased underperformance.
initiatives: and level of investor activity.
We were responsible executive: pleased to appoint an Hr Director monitoring of unplanned executive departures chris grigg and launch a new Hr strategy in the and conducting exit interviews.
year to continue to improve our strategic focus: our supply chain strategy is designed attractiveness as an employer and EXPERT to manage key social and environmental our capacity to develop our staff.
PEOPLE risks with our outsourced suppliers, including our high level of staff engagement health and safety, fraud and bribery.
was recognised by the award of a one star rating in the sunday times Best companies to Work for survey.
40 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 strategic rePort key CHAnge FRom LAST YeAR risk exposure has increased no significant change in risk exposure risk exposure has reduced internal risks risks and iMPacts HOw we Manage tHe risk MOveMent in tHe PeriOd We must be mindful of maintaining We monitor our market letting exposure including charles Maudsley commented, incOMe sustainable income streams in order vacancies, upcoming expiries and breaks and in a challenging market, we have sustainability to continue to generate returns for tenants in administration as well as our weighted demonstrated the enduring appeal of our shareholders and provide the average lease length.
our retail properties with lettings above platform from which to grow the erV, footfall above benchmarks and We undertake comprehensive profit and cash business through development and improving occupancy throughout the flow forecasting incorporating scenario analysis capital appreciation.
We are investing further in our to model the impact of proposed transactions.
properties, including with the provision We consider sustainability of our We perform rigorous occupier covenant checks of wi-fi and increased food and income streams in: and review these on an ongoing basis so that beverage options, to ensure that they execution of investment strategy we can be proactive in managing exposure continue to meet the evolving needs and capital recycling, notably timing to weaker occupiers.
of our occupiers and their customers.
of reinvestment of sale proceeds: We are proactive in addressing key lease breaks tim roberts commented, occupier nature and structure of leasing and expiries to minimise periods of vacancy.
demand across our office portfolio is activity: and robust, supported by the increasingly We have a diversified occupier base and monitor diverse range of occupiers which our nature and timing of asset concentration of exposure to individual occupiers buildings appeal to.
nowhere is this management and development or sectors.
better demonstrated than at regents activity.
We actively engage with the communities Place where 10 Brock street was fully responsible executives: in w hich we operate, as detailed in our let within three months of completion charles Maudsley, tim roberts community charter, to ensure that we provide to a broad range of occupiers including buildings that meet the needs of all relevant Debenhams, facebook, Manchester strategic focus: stakeholders.
city football club and Whitefoord llP.
CUSTOMER for more on how we manage our ORIENTATION portfolio, see pages 24 to 25.
We must maintain a capital structure We set the ltV range to reflect the strength lucinda Bell commented, caPital which recognises the balance of our portfolio and the longevity of our cash During the year, our ltV has structure between performance, risk and flows, management of our debt book and our been in the lower half of our range as executiOn flexibility.
we successfully invested the proceeds from our March 2013 placing, sold gearing magnifies returns both We monitor our ltv on an ongoing basis and retail assets and benefited from positive and negative.
manage gearing levels over the cycle.
as values an increase in the gearing level We manage our investment activity, which increase, we will continue our rigorous increases the risk of a breach of can be lumpy, as well as our development assessment of the appropriate ltV, covenants on borrowing facilities commitments, to ensure that we will remain which may fall below 40%, and will and may increase finance costs.
within an appropriate range of ltV.
not gear up on market yield shift.
responsible executive: for more on our financial policies, lucinda Bell see pages 56 to 58. strategic focus: CAPITAL EFFICIENCY We must be judicious in the We have five key principles guiding the financing lucinda Bell commented, finance management of our financing as our of the group which together are employed to We were again successful strategy strategy here addresses risks both manage the risks in this area: diversify our sources in raising finance from a range executiOn to our continuing solvency and the of finance, maintain liquidity, extend and stretch of sources in the year including stability of our profits.
maturity of debt portfolio, maintain flexibility, unsecured corporate facilities and maintain strong balance sheet metrics.
the attractive failure to manage the refinancing see page 57 for further details.
terms of these arrangements mean requirement may result in a shortage that we continue to operate an efficient of funds to sustain the operations We closely monitor the period until refinancing debt book which provides both of the business or repay facilities is required, which is a key determinant of financing flexibility to effect our property as they fall due.
activity, and use scenario modelling tools to investment activity and, in conjunction evaluate the likelihood of covenant breach.
this and a breach of financing with our hedging policy, stability covenant limits are considered to We are committed to maintaining and enhancing of financing costs.
be the most significant risks to the relationships with our key financing partners.
for more on our financial policies, continuing operation of British land We closely monitor relevant emerging regulation see pages 56 to 58. as a going concern.
see page 72 which has the potential to impact the way that for further consideration of going we finance the group and to introduce operating concern.
responsible executive: as with other regulatory and public affairs lucinda Bell matters which impact us, we engage with strategic focus: government and other industry participants to influence the debate.
CAPITAL EFFICIENCY The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41
