Strategic report M anaging risK in D eliVering oUr strategy the top-down approach involves a review of the the strengthening economic external environment in which we operate, to environment has improved the guide an assessment of the risks which we are comfortable exposing the business to in pursuit outlook for our performance of our performance objectives this is our risk however our risk appetite appetite.
this evaluation frames the remains broadly unchanged.
determination of the actions we take in executing our strategy.
key risk indicators the most significant judgements affecting our Kris have been identified for each of our risk exposure include our property sector principal risks and are used to monitor our risk selection, our level of development risk and our exposure.
the Kris are reviewed quarterly by gearing.
We maintain our focus on sectors the risk committee to ensure that the activities where we see outperformance over the of the business remain within agreed risk medium term, that is high-quality UK retail and appetite tolerances.
london offices, and we want to increase further the bottom-up approach involves identification, our exposure to london and the south east.
management and monitoring of risks in each as our 2010 development programme lets up, We determine our risk area of our business meaning that risk we continue to replenish our pipeline of management is embedded in our everyday opportunities to maintain an appropriate level appetite based on our operations.
control of this process is provided of risk exposure commensurate with our assessment of the economic through maintenance of risk registers in each return aspirations.
our approach to gearing is area.
these risk registers are aggregated and environment that we are unchanged but we see our ltV being towards reviewed by the risk committee, with the lower end of and possibly below our target operating in and our significant and emerging risks escalated for range as valuations increase.
Our aPPrOacH tO risk ManageMent We use key risk indicators this process complements the top-down view at British land, we take the view that our by informing the identification of our principal to monitor the external assessment of risk is a cornerstone of our risks, ensuring that operational risks are fully strategy and our embedded risk management environment as well as the considered in determining the risk appetite and is fundamental to its delivery.
our integrated the corresponding strategy of the business.
approach combines a top-down strategic our principal risks are detailed in the table these provide clear view with a complementary bottom-up that follows.
this year, we recognise the operational process.
thresholds covering areas increasing risks associated with upcoming such as gearing, sector political events, such as the UK general election, by expanding the risk of economic selection, target development outlook to be economic and Political outlook.
exposure and the sustainability Our aPPrOacH tO risk in Practice of our income.
remaining within these thresholds development exposure Development has been a key source of returns ensures that our actions and outperformance for British land in recent years.
We continue to believe that development are consistent with our can deliver good risk adjusted returns in the agreed risk appetite.
years to come and so we maintain our appetite for risk in this area.
our letting progress on our lucinda bell 2010 development programme has provided cHair of tHe risK coMMittee us with the confidence to commit to several new developments and we continue to replenish our pipeline through acquisition activity and progression of opportunities within the portfolio.
We monitor the development exposure of the business as a proportion of the portfolio, both currently and on a prospective basis, with reference to a target range, and this guides the pace and quantum of replenishment of the pipeline, noting also the risks to timing and delivery of these opportunities, including planning and construction cost inflation.
36 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 strategic rePort risk gOvernance risk ManageMent at a glance the Board takes overall responsibility for risk the diagram below summarises the complementary top-down and bottom-up aspects management with a particular focus on of our integrated approach to risk management.
determining the nature and extent of significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic TOP-DOWN BOTTOM-UP objectives.
the audit committee assesses the Strategic risk management Operational risk management principal risks facing the company, including those that would threaten its solvency or liquidity.
their evaluation of these solvency risks is described further in the going concern section on page 72 and a description of how BOARD AND these risks are managed and mitigated is AUDIT COMMITTEE included in the financial strategy execution Review external risk in the table of principal risks which follows.
environment the audit committee takes responsibility Assess effectiveness of risk for overseeing the effectiveness of sound risk management systems Set risk appetite management and internal control systems and parameters and more information on the system of Report principal risks internal controls can be found on page 76.
Determine strategic the executive Directors are responsible action points for delivering the companys strategy and managing operational risk and a risk committee has been established to provide a forum to fulfil these responsibilities.
the Directors in turn place reliance on their teams to monitor and manage operational RISK COMMITTEE risks on an ongoing basis, as well as identifying EXECUTIVE emerging risks.
the risk registers provide a DIRECTORS framework for all staff to feed into this process Consider completeness recognising their shared responsibility for Direct delivery of of identified risks and effective management of risk in delivering our strategic actions adequacy of mitigating actions strategy.
Our governance structure Monitor key risk indicators Consider aggregation of risk the risk committee P65 exposures across the business report of the audit committee P7478 BUSINESS UNITS Report priority and emerging risks Execute strategic actions Identify, evaluate, prioritise, Report on key risk indicators mitigate and monitor operational risks recorded in risk register The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37
