ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 21 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board recognises that risk management is essential for the Group to achieve its objectives.
Whilst our principal risks have remained unchanged over the course of the year, senior management staff and the Board regularly consider the signi cant risks, which it believes are facing the Group, identify appropriate controls and if necessary instigate action to improve those controls.
There will always be some risk when undertaking property investments but the control process is aimed at mitigating and minimising these risks where possible.
The key risks identi ed by the Board, the steps taken to mitigate them and additional commentary is as follows: Principal Risk Cause Risk Management Decline in property Changes in the general economic The Board believes these risks are reduced values environment can lead to the failure of due to its policy of assembling a portfolio tenants to renew or extend leases, with a wide spread of different tenancies in Loss of rental income as well as increasing the likelihood of terms of actual tenants, industry type and Increase in vacant tenant default geographical location as well as undertaking property costs thorough due diligence on acquisitions.
The level of exposure to individual tenants is regularly monitored to ensure they are within manageable limits.
Rent deposits or bank guarantees are requested where appropriate to mitigate against the effect of tenant defaults.
Where possible, purchases are achieved at low capital values and with due investigation of tenant nances.
Over-borrowing In response to these risks Hansteen Inability to meet Signi cant rise in interest rates maintains a prudent approach to its loan repayment borrowing levels by seeking to maintain requirements headroom within its debt facility covenants Insuf cient credit and have cash resources that exceed Facility covenant immediate loan repayment requirements.
breaches The Board actively monitors current debt and equity levels as well as considering the future levels of debt and equity required to sustain the business.
Current and projected compliance with loan covenants are monitored and compliance certi cates are prepared on a regular basis.
For all money borrowed consideration is given to procuring the appropriate hedging instruments to protect against increases in interest rates.
HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 22 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Principal Risk Cause Risk Management Fluctuations in foreign Investment in overseas countries In response to this risk the Groups borrowings currency rates in Europe are in Euro denominated loan facilities and therefore, to the extent that investments are nanced by debt, a self hedging mechanism is in place.
In relation to the equity element of the Groups Euro investments the Board monitors the level of exposure on a regular basis and considers the level and timing of when to take out the appropriate hedging instruments to cover this exposure.
There is also a risk that one or more of the countries that the Group operates in could leave the Euro which may affect the nature of the Groups loans and derivatives or introduce new volatility and currency exposures for the Group to manage.
Environmental liabilities Non-compliance with laws and Each acquisition undertaken by the Group regulations includes an environmental report from a specialist consultancy.
These reports may highlight the need for further investigation and in some cases remediation.
The Groups policy is then to either undertake such investigations or remediation or potentially reject the purchase as no longer viable.
Loss of REIT status and Non-compliance with REIT legislation The risk of a breach of certain limits imposed payment of additional by REIT legislation is mitigated through corporation tax would regular review of the Groups actual and arise from a breach forecast performance against REIT regime of REIT compliance requirements.
