STRATEGIC REPORT Implementation and compliance responsibility PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES MANAGING UNCERTAINTY The management of risk is integrated with our operating, financial and governance activities.
The policies for risk management are designed to reduce the chances of financial loss, protect our reputation and optimise performance when opportunities arise.
We identify, control and communicate risk management throughout the organisation using a framework which is regularly reviewed by our management team.
This framework is subject to regular management review, and is references in the table to the pages in this Annual Report where the approved annually by the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board.
For risks, or the elements of the business affected by them, are discussed 2014, we have added two new principal risk areas in relation to Tax and further, and where relevant linked the risks with our strategic priorities.
Regulatory matters and Ownership structures as well as updating a Responsibility for risk management rests ultimately with the Board.
number of key risks and mitigation actions.
The updated framework is However, the foundations of our approach are instilled in the culture shown in the table overleaf.
Macroeconomics and government policies and values at Hammerson.
Improved team integration and a flat continue to dominate the risk landscape, particularly with the management structure mean that the senior team is involved in uncertainty associated with the forthcoming UK general election and all key decision making, and risk identification and mitigation.
the slow economic recovery in the eurozone.
We have also included Overall responsibility for corporate strategy, governance, performance, BOARD internal controls and risk management Defines the Groups appetite for risk Reviews effectiveness of Groups risk management framework and internal AUDIT controls on behalf of the Board COMMITTEE Ensures compliance with relevant legislation, rules and regulations Oversees effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function Management of the business and delivery of strategy EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Monitoring of key risk indicators Group Executive Committee Regular reviews of the risk management framework Responsible for integration of the risk management framework RISK AND throughout the business CONTROLS Monitors compliance with the Groups internal control systems COMMITTEE Management of the internal audit function Responsible for implementation of risk mitigation actions and compliance DIVISIONAL MANAGEMENT with internal controls and procedures at the operational level of the business UK Executive Formal reviews of risk management framework to identify risk trends Hammerson France Oversight of project level risk management activities Management Board www.
com 55 Monitoring and reporting responsibility PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk, impact and related Further strategic priority Mitigation commentary Change from 2013 Business strategy Implementation of a strategy We commission and evaluate research into the Chief The UK economy has seen accelerated inconsistent with the market economy and investment and occupational Executives growth, although the recovery in the environment, risking poor markets and use this to prepare an annual report eurozone has been subdued with further investment decisions and Business Plan and regular financial forecasts.
page 4 monetary stimulus expected in 2015. inadequate returns.
The Groups portfolio is diversified by sub-sector Our markets Stock markets have performed strongly Shopping centre, retail parks or and its allocation, including exposure to the page 7 despite potential uncertainty associated premium outlet markets in UK or eurozone, is reviewed regularly.
But downside Business France underperform relative to risks remain, especially given recent We focus on prime shopping centres in the best review other sectors or markets, eroding election results in Greece.
locations, convenient retail parks and premium page 40 shareholder value.
outlets, all with experienced management.
Retailers are becoming more confident Financial Consumer spending stalls, in their outlook but must ensure that Stress-testing of our business model against review particularly in France, adversely their sales channels remain relevant in the a severe downside economic scenario has page 51 impacting future performance digital age and provide consumers with confirmed that the Group is robust.
Low gearing, the flexibility and convenience they long-term secure income streams from our leases, Related strategic priorities require.
Real estate remains a cornerstone the currency hedging of the value of and income of their plans.
from our euro-denominated portfolio, a good 1 2 spread of debt maturities and the flexibility to phase or halt our development programme, all point to resilience to market shocks.
We monitor closely developments in multichannel retailing and introduce innovative new concepts to our portfolio when appropriate.
Property and corporate investment Investment decisions result Acquisitions are thoroughly evaluated, supported Our markets 2014 has seen an increase in investor in inadequate returns or the by detailed review, financial appraisals, due page 9 demand for real estate, reinforced by adoption of unforeseen liabilities.
diligence and detailed risk assessment prior an appetite from overseas investors for Business to Board approval.
relatively safe returns from prime assets Opportunities to divest of review in the UK and France.
This is further properties are missed, or limited The performance of individual properties is page 43 encouraged by the continuing low by market constraints, reducing benchmarked against target returns.
interest rate and inflation environment.
Properties are held in a ready for sale state, These factors have contributed to a rise with documentation supporting leases, rights Related strategic priorities in real estate values during 2014 and this and obligations readily accessible.
trend is forecast to continue into 2015.
The Groups property portfolio is high-quality, 1 3 However, in the event that there is further geographically diversified and let to a large instability in the eurozone, significant number of tenants.
volatility could return to financial markets in the short to medium term, which could have a negative effect on real estate values.
Key to the principal risks table Strategic priority Change in risk from 2013 1 High-quality property Increased 2 Income generation Same 3 Capital strength Reduced 56 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk, impact and related Further strategic priority Mitigation commentary Change from 2013 Property development Over-exposure to developments The Groups exposure to developments and the Business We successfully completed Les Terrasses within a short timeframe increases phasing of projects is considered as part of our review du Port in May and were on-site with six exposure to market risk and annual Business Plan and reviewed throughout page 40 projects at 31 December 2014. puts pressure on financing the year.
This process also considers future Our three major London schemes have and cashflow.
been advanced and this coincides with Poor control of the development We produce regular management reporting improving demand from retailers for new programme and failure to to enable effective monitoring of prime trading locations.
Local and address investment and development projects.
national politicial support is still required occupational market risks or to bring these schemes to fruition, and Detailed analysis, including market research, inflationary pressures results uncertainty caused by UK elections may is undertaken prior to the approval of expenditure in inadequate returns.
act to adversely impact the delivery of on each development project.
Poor management and Where possible, guaranteed maximum price inadequate resourcing leads We have also seen cost inflation in the contracts are agreed with building contractors to failed projects.
construction sector, fuelled by growing and fixed prices agreed for other advisers.
demand for skills and raw materials as Failure to achieve key project Multi-disciplinary teams are assembled for each economic growth returns.
The recent fall milestones, such as planning development under a project owner, and these in the oil price should act to cool these consents and land acquisitions, are supported by external expertise.
on a timely basis damages project Constructive relationships are maintained with viability and corporate reputation.
Related strategic priorities A programme of post-completion reviews ensures potential improvements to processes are identified.
1 2 3 We have a substantial pipeline but will progress developments only when the relevant markets are sufficiently robust, when we have the right level of interest from occupiers and on the basis that sound financial analysis demonstrates good returns.
Developments only represent 3% of the Group property portfolio at 31 December 2014, and leasing is progressing as expected on the six on-site developments.
Treasury Breach of borrowing covenants We set guidelines for financial ratios which Business The improved economic picture has triggers default and or repayment are monitored regularly by the Board.
review supported property valuations for prime of facilities or bonds.
page 49 assets and hence maintained the safety Our annual Business Plan includes stress tests margin for borrowing covenants.
considering the impact of a significant Notes 19 Related strategic priorities deterioration in the markets in which we operate.
and 20 to the The Groups balance sheet and financial accounts ratios were further strengthened by the Gearing stood at 46% at 31 December 2014, 3 pages 140 399 million share placing in September.
significantly lower than the Groups most stringent to 141 borrowing covenant that gearing should not exceed 150%.
We estimate that values could fall by 52% from their December 2014 levels before covenants would be endangered.
Interest rate and exchange risk Adverse currency or interest We set guidelines for our exposure to fixed and Business Interest rates have remained low over rate movements result in floating interest rates, using interest rate and review the last 12 months, and the pressure for financial losses.
At 31 December page 49 a near-term increase has diminished as 2014, 79% of the Groups gross debt was at fixed inflationary pressures have reduced.
Related strategic priorities rates of interest.
However, there remains an expectation that they will rise in the medium term.
Exchange risk is managed principally by matching 3 foreign currency assets with foreign currency Sterling has strengthened against the borrowings or derivatives.
At the end of 2014, 88% euro during 2014 and the risk of volatility of the value of the Groups euro-denominated remains at times of heightened assets was hedged in this way.
com 57 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk, impact and related Further strategic priority Mitigation commentary Change from 2013 Treasury continued Liquidity risk Poor planning or external factors, The Board approves future investment Business Lenders have become more willing including failures in the banking requirements and sufficient facilities are put review to lend during 2014, although continue system, lead to a liquidity squeeze in place with an appropriate maturity profile.
page 49 to be selective in their choice of preventing the refinancing of counterparty, and the corporate bond We monitor the maturity profile of debt and maturing debt or leading to market is open to borrowers with an take a proactive approach to refinancing.
insufficient liquidity to progress appropriate risk profile.
Credit ratings are set for lending counterparties the development programme.
Alternatives to the traditional bank and monitored.
We use diverse sources of funding.
Companies with short-term lending and bond markets, such as The high quality and diversification of our portfolio financing requirements may private placement, remain open to should help to protect values from the negative continue to find it difficult the Group.
impacts which may arise from changes in the to secure sufficient funding, financial and property markets.
in particular from banks, at While credit conditions during 2014 have been costs comparable with their favourable for debt issuers, there is a risk that this existing facilities.
The Groups recent funding strategy Related strategic priorities has therefore sought to raise new funds to refinance near-term maturities.
This strategy was 3 demonstrated in 2014 by the issue of an 8-year 500 million bond in July where the funds were partly used in December to redeem the outstanding 480 million 4.875% bond maturing in June 2015.
At 31 December, the Group had liquidity of 648 million and an average debt maturity of 6.5 years.
Ownership structures Joint ventures JV Strategic differences with The Group has a diverse range of joint venture Note 13 to the We have reduced the number of JVs joint venture partners impact partners and an annual liquidity review is accounts through the disposal of Queensgate and operational activities and undertaken.
At 31 December 2014, 43% of our page 131 10 Grosvenor Street and the acquisition reduce financial performance.
properties are classified as being held within of partner shares in Highcross and joint ventures or associated undertakings.
Loss of liquidity through joint venture structures.
Joint venture documentation drafted to align The property market remains liquid with strategic direction and to provide liquidity a number of JV stakes, such as Cabot Related strategic priorities and flexibilty for partners and to protect the Circus, having been successfully traded Groups ownership.
1 2 3 Premium outlets Lack of direct control over externally Strong working relationships and regular meetings Business review We continue to have a productive managed premium outlet interests with partners to proactively manage any issues.
page 44 working relationship with Value Retail results in inconsistent strategies and Formal annual business planning process used which is a partner in VIA Outlets.
Note 14 to the governance structures.
accounts Our investment in VIA Outlet contains Influence over strategy and governance gained page 137 provisions to enable effective joint Related strategic priorities through board representation for both governance and control to protect Value Retail and VIA Outlets.
1 2 3 Entities subject to external audit and property independently valued for Hammerson.
58 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk, impact and related Further strategic priority Mitigation commentary Change from 2013 Tax and Regulatory Loss of tax exempt status due to Speculation and comment relating to changes Financial No significant changes during 2014, change in legislation.
in tax regimes in the UK and Europe is monitored review although governments continue to seek with the help of specialist advisers.
page 54 to reduce fiscal deficits and regulators EU UK regulation acts as a brake examine mechanisms which would on growth and administrative Developments in regulation are monitored and Note 8 to the make financial markets more resilient.
burden for the real estate sector.
governments and regulators lobbied through accounts representation by UK and European real estate Increased taxation may be a risk for Emerging EU UK environmental page 125 trade bodies.
the broader business sector, but an regulation acts to disrupt asset-based industry such as real estate, transaction processes and Monitoring of exposure to key regulations at which currently benefits from taxincrease costs.
portfolio level combined with strategic plan efficient regimes throughout Europe, to mitigate.
Active participation in policy Related strategic priorities could become a specific target.
consultations and industry led dialogue with policy makers.
The real estate sector is sometimes 2 3 perceived by regulators to be part of the financial services sector rather than as an operating business and the industry could be adversely affected by misdirected regulation designed to stabilise financial markets.
Business organisation and human resources Management structure or A Human Resources plan features as part of the Our people The recruitment market has become resourcing levels are inappropriate annual Business Plan which considers team page 32 more active with rising demand for good for achieving business objectives.
This will put upward pressure Governance on salaries for the best candidates.
Failure to recruit and retain The Nomination Committee approves succession pages 60 key executives and staff with plans for senior roles.
to 74 We recognise the importance of appropriate skills and calibre.
motivating and developing our staff Significant changes to the management structure Remuneration and have plans in action to help to are approved by the Board.
Report Related strategic priorities mitigate the impact of third party pages 75 We periodically review the remuneration structure, recruitment approaches.
to 93 including an annual review by the Remuneration 1 2 3 Committee and benchmarking against industry, or other relevant, comparatives.
Management competency framework launched with management skills formally assessed with annual appraisal process.
Catastrophic event The Groups operations or financial Continuity plans established at both corporate Whilst the overall risk of a major incident security are significantly affected and individual property levels.
remains low, assessments for terrorist and by disruption to financial markets cyber risks indicate a heightened risk Properties reviewed for flood risk and to ensure following a major event such as a status in both the UK and France.
appropriate defence measures and insurance power shortage, extreme weather, cover is in place.
environmental incident, civil Crisis management group established with unrest or terrorist or cyber attack.
Related strategic priorities Physical security measures in place at properties.
Senior management, including crisis management 1 2 3 group, receive media training for crisis events.
Security threat assessed regularly through links with security agencies.
Insurance policies include terrorism cover.
2014 STRATEGIC REPORT Pages 1 to 59 of this Annual Report constitute the Strategic Report.
It has been approved and signed on behalf of the Board on 13 February 2015.
DAVID ATKINS TIMON DRAKESMITH Director Director www.
