RISK MANAGEMENT Derwent London aims to deliver above average long-term returns to shareholders whilst operating within an acceptable risk envelope.
The Board recognises that there are inherent risks in running any business andto ensure that the Groups risk appetite isnot exceeded, a risk management system is required to ensure these risks are identified, understood and managed.
RISK ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE Overall responsibility for risk management rests with the Board which has delegated responsibility for assurance concerning the process to the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee.
Executive management is responsible fordesigning, implementing, maintaining and evaluating thenecessary systems of internal control.
The following diagram illustrates the Groups risk management structure: BOARD Overall responsibility for risk management and internal controls RISK COMMITTEE SENIOR MANAGEMENT AUDIT COMMITTEE TEAM Responsible for non-financial Responsible for financial internal controls Provides input to Committees internal controls review processes Monitors and reviews the Monitors and reviews the Groups risk register external audit process and reports EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Prepares the Groups risk register Reviews the operation of key controls 22 Strategic report The Group operates principally from one central London office 2014 major risks with relatively short management reporting lines.
Consequently, members of the Executive Committee are closely involved in High day-to-day matters and able to identify areas of increasing risk quickly and respond accordingly.
6 The third party review of the Groups risk management processundertaken at the end of 2013 resulted in a phased 7 2 9 programme of improvements.
Those that were applicable to the preparation and reporting of the Groups risk register were introduced during the 2013 review of the register and were 5 11 8 further refined during the 2014 review which was undertaken 1 during September, October and November 2014.
3 4 The review also made further recommendations concerning the documentation of the Groups risk management process 10 and, accordingly, during the year a Group Risk Appetite Statement, a Risk Management Policy document and a Risk Management Process document have been prepared by the Executive Committee, approved by the Risk Committee and adopted by the main Board.
The Groups risk register continues to be the core element of Low Impact High the risk management process.
The register is prepared by the Executive Committee which initially identifies the risks facing Increased risk Unchanged risk the Group and then collectively assesses the likelihood of Decreased risk eachrisk, the impact on the Group over different aspects of the business and the strength of the controls operating over therisk.
This approach allows the effect of any mitigating 8 procedures to be reflected in the final assessment.
It also recognises that risk cannot be totally eliminated at an acceptable cost and that there are some risks which, withitsexperience, the Board will, after due consideration, 6 choose to accept.
The register, its method of preparation andthe operation of the key controls in the Groups system ofinternal control have been reviewed by the Audit and 4 RiskCommittees.
In order togain a more comprehensive understanding of the risk management process and how itapplies to particular parts of the Groups business, the 2 RiskCommittee periodically receives presentations from seniormanagers.
In response to the 2014 update to the UK Corporate 0 Increased Unchanged Decreased Governance Code, the Group has revised its procedures Strategic Operational toensure that the necessary monitoring of risks and Operational Strategic controlswill be carried out throughout 2015.
Financial Financial The current risk register includes 46 risks spread between strategic risks, operational risks and financial risks.
Average risk by category The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group in2015, together with the potential effects, controls and High mitigating factors, are set out on the following pages.
Low 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Strategic Operational Financial Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 23 Average weighted risk score Probability RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Strategic risks That the Groups strategy does not create the anticipated shareholder value or fails to meet investors expectations.
Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 1.
Inconsistent strategy The Group carries out a five-year strategic The last annual strategic review was The Groups strategy is inconsistent with the review each year and also prepares an carried out by the Board in June 2014. state of the market in which it operates.
annual budget and three rolling forecasts This considered the sensitivity of six key which cover the next two years.
In the course measures to changes in underlying 2.
Inconsistent development programme of preparing these documents the Board assumptions including interest rates and The Groups development programme is not considers the effect on the Groups KPIs borrowing margins, timing of projects, level consistent with the economic cycle.
andkey ratios of changes to the main of capital expenditure and the extent of underlying assumptions reflecting different capital recycling.
The Group continues to benefit from a strong economic scenarios.
However, this could be The three rolling forecasts prepared during adversely affected by a number of high level The Groups plans can then be set so as the year focus on the same key measures economic factors which would reduce the value tobest realise its long-term strategic goals but may consider the effect of varying of the Groups portfolio with a consequent giventhe expected economic and market different assumptions to reflect changing effect on two of its KPIs total return and total conditions.
This flexibility is largely due to economic and market conditions.
theGroups policy of maintaining income The timing of the Groups development fromproperties for as long as possible The Board sees the level of both these risks programme and the strategies for untildevelopment starts.
asslightly higher than last year.
individual properties reflect the outcome The level of future redevelopment ofthese considerations.
opportunities identified in the Groups Over 50% of the Groups portfolio has portfolio enables the Board to delay been identified for future redevelopment.
marginalprojects until market conditions arefavourable.
During the year the Groups loan-to-value ratio remained below 28%, its net interest The Board pays particular attention, when cover ratio was above 275% and the REIT setting its plans, to maintaining sufficient ratios were comfortably met.
headroom in all the Groups key ratios, financial covenants and interest cover.
Shortage of future developments The development opportunities within the Over 50% of the Groups portfolio has A lack of suitable development opportunities Groups portfolio enable the Board to defer been identified for future redevelopment.
leads to the Group paying a price that results acquisitions until more properties become The Group made principal acquisitions inlower future returns.
This would affect available at an appropriate price level.
of90.9m which enhance its holdings in theGroups total return and total property The scale of the central London property twovillages.
It has also acquired a major returnKPIs.
market means that suitable properties new property through a property swap, shouldalways be available.
The level of risk has increased from last year.
Regulatory non-compliance The Groups Risk Committee reports to the A Health and Safety report is presented The Groups cost base is increased and Board concerning regulatory risk.
atall Executive Committee and main management time diverted through a breach of Board meetings.
The Group employs a Health and Safety any of the legislation that forms the regulatory Manager who reports to the Board.
The Executive Committee receives regular framework within which the Group operates.
reports from the Sustainability Manager.
The Group employs a Sustainability Manager An increase in costs would directly impact who reports to the sustainability committee The Group pays considerable attention onthe Groups total return KPI.
A significant which is chaired by Paul Williams.
tosustainability issues and produces diversion of management time could affect anannual sustainability report.
awider range of key metrics.
The Companys policies including those onthe Bribery Act, Health and Safety, The Group has reviewed and revised its This risk has increased marginally due to the EqualOpportunities, Harassment and whistleblowing policy during the year.
increased scale of the Groups development Whistleblowing are available to all staff activity and the associated increase in Health ontheCompany intranet.
Members of staff attend external briefings inorder to remain cognizant of regulatory changes.
24 Strategic report Strategic risks continued Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 5.
Reputational damage All new members of staff benefit from an The Group employs a Head of Investor The Groups reputation is damaged through induction programme and are issued with and Corporate Communications and unauthorised and inaccurate media coverage.
retains the services of an external PR agency.
Both maintain regular contact This risk would most directly impact on the Social media channels are monitored by withexternal media sources.
Groups total shareholder return one of its key theGroups investor relations department.
Indirectly it could impact on a number The Company engages with a number The Group takes advice on technological of the formal KPIs.
oflocal community bodies in areas where changes in the use of media and adapts it operates as part of its CSR activity.
The Board considers the risk to be broadly thesame as last year.
There is an agreed procedure for approving all external statements.
Financial risks That the Group becomes unable to meet its financial obligations or finance the business appropriately.
Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 6.
Increase in property yields The impact of yield changes on the Groups The Group produces three rolling Increases in interest rates can lead to higher financial covenants and performance are forecasts each year which contain property yields which would cause property monitored regularly and are subject to detailedsensitivity analyses.
sensitivity analysis to ensure that adequate Quarterly management accounts report headroom is preserved.
This would affect the following KPIs: on the Groups performance against The management of the Groups financial covenants.
covenants has been simplified by changes Project appraisals are regularly reviewed Total return.
toits financing profile over the last two years.
The impact of yield changes is considered Interest rates have remained low for an when potential projects are appraised.
extended period of time and yields have decreased during the year.
Interest rates areexpected to rise within the next two years.
Though there is no direct relationship, this maycause property yields to increase in duecourse and therefore the Board considers this risk to have increased during the year due to further recent reductions in yields.
Key Risk increase Risk unchanged Risk decrease Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 25 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Operational risks The Group suffers either a financial loss or adverse consequences due to processes being inadequate or not operating correctly.
Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 7.
Reduced development returns Standardised appraisals which include The Group is advised by leading planning The Groups development projects do not contingencies are prepared for all consultants and has considerable produce the anticipated financial return due investments and sensitivity analysis is in-house planning expertise.
toone or more of the following factors: undertaken to ensure that an adequate Executive Directors represent the returnis made in all circumstances delays in the planning process Groupon a number of local bodies considered likely to occur.
d elays due to contractors whichensures that it remains aware sub-contractors defaulting The scale of the Groups development oflocal issues.
increased construction costs programme is managed to reflect anticipated The procurement process used by the adverse letting conditions market conditions.
Group includes the use of highly regarded Regular cost reports are produced for the firms of quantity surveyors and is designed This would have an effect on the Groups Executive Committee and the Board that to minimise uncertainty regarding costs.
totalreturn and total property return KPIs.
monitor progress of actual expenditure Development costs are benchmarked The Board considers this risk to have remained against budget and timetable.
This allows toensure that the Group obtains broadly the same over the last year.
potential adverse variances to be identified competitive pricing.
and addressed at an early stage.
The Groups style of accommodation The Group uses contractors sub-contractors remains in demand as evidenced by the that it has previously worked with 60 lettings achieved in 2014 which totalled successfully whenever possible.
188,300 sq ft. Post completion reviews are carried out The Group has often secured significant forallmajor developments to ensure that pre-lets of the space in its development improvements to the Groups procedures programme which significantly fide-risks canbe identified and implemented.
Alternative procurement methods are The Groups cost committee meets on evaluated as a way of minimising the impact aweekly basis to consider new budget of increased construction costs.
Inefficient systems The Groups IT department has been The IT department now consists of The Groups systems and in particular its IT expanded over the last two years to improve threepeople.
infrastructure are not developed quickly the Groups ability to develop its systems.
The IT steering group met five times enoughto support the business as it A steering group has been established duringthe year.
changesand grows or new systems are fromall parts of the business to identify notimplemented effectively.
The IT manager attends meetings with andprioritise requirements.
representatives from similar companies This would lead to increased costs or reduced The proximity of members of the Executive inorder to share knowledge.
returns which would affect the Groups total Committee to the day-to-day operations return KPI.
External consultants are used to helps identify IT requirements.
assistwith the implementation of Due to the expansion of the Group and System improvements are considered as mostnew systems.
increases in the rate of change in IT, this risk partof the five-year strategic review.
isconsidered to have risen over the year.
9. Business interruption The Groups IT systems are protected by Internal and external penetration tests The Group suffers either a successful anti-virus software and firewalls which are areregularly conducted to assess the cyber-attack or disaster that results in it being continually updated.
unable to use its IT systems.
The offsite back-up IT infrastructure has A staff awareness programme has been beentested.
rolled out to alert staff to the techniques This would lead to an increase in cost and that may be used to gain unauthorised adiversion of management time.
Increased A disaster recovery suite has been access to the Groups systems.
costs would have an impact on the Groups established.
total return KPI whilst a significant diversion of The Groups Business Continuity Plan management time would have a wider effect.
isbeing reviewed and updated by externalconsultants.
Due to the Groups increased dependence on IT systems, this risk is seen to have increased over the year.
26 Strategic report Operational risks continued Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 10.
Tenant default All prospective tenants are considered by The Group has a diversified tenant base.
The Group suffers a loss of rental income theGroups Credit Committee and security The Credit Committee meets each week andincreased vacant property costs due to istaken where appropriate either in the and considered 113 potential lettings tenants vacating or becoming bankrupt.
formof parent company guarantees or during the year.
This risk would have an immediate effect on the In total the Group holds rental deposits Groups tenant receipts and void management The Groups property managers maintain amounting to 10.6m.
KPIs and, if significant, on the total property regular contact with tenants and work closely return, total return and interest cover ratio.
with any that are facing financial difficulties.
On average in 2014, the Group collected 99%of the rents due within 14 days The Groups Credit Committee regularly The Board considers this risk to have marginally ofthedue date.
reviews a list of slow payers and considers decreased over the last year what actions should be taken.
The Board regularly considers the merits oftenant default insurance.
Shortage of key staff The remuneration packages of all employees The Group recruited 11 new members The Group is unable to successfully implement are benchmarked regularly.
ofstaff during 2014. its strategy due to a failure to recruit and retain Six-monthly appraisals identify training Staff turnover during 2014 was low at 8%.
key staff with appropriate skills.
requirements which are fulfilled over the nextsix months.
This risk could impact on any or all of the Groups KPIs.
The Nominations Committee consider succession matters as a standing The risk is seen to have marginally increased agendaitem.
Requirements for senior management succession are considered as part of the five-year strategic review.
Key Risk increase Risk unchanged Risk decrease Viability statement The five-year strategic review considers the Groups cash In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of flows, dividend cover, REIT compliance and other key financial theCode, the Directors have assessed the prospect of the ratios over the period.
These metrics are subject to sensitivity Company over a longer period than the 12 months required analysis which involves flexing a number of the main bythe Going Concern provision.
The Board conducted this assumptions underlying the forecast both individually and review for a period of fiveyears, which was selected for the inunison.
Where appropriate, this analysis is carried out to following reasons: evaluate the potential impact of the Groups principal risks actually occurring.
The five-year review also makes certain i The Groups strategic review covers a five-year period.
assumptions about the normal level of capital recycling likely ii For a major scheme five years is a reasonable tooccur and considers whether additional financing facilities approximation of the maximum time taken from will be required.
obtainingplanning permission to letting the property.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have iii Most leases contain a five-year rent review pattern and areasonable expectation that the Company will be able therefore five years allows for the forecasts to include tocontinue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall thereversion arising from those reviews.
dueoverthe five-year period of their assessment.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 27
