64 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 How we manage risk Asset management Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Poor management of voids, Failure to maximise income The Groups in-house Asset management and Leasing rental mis-pricing, low tenant from investment properties teams proactively manage tenants to ensure changing retention, sub-optimal rent needs are met with a focus on retaining income in light of reviews, tenant failures and vacant possession requirements for refurbishments and inappropriate refurbishments developments and liaise regularly with external advisers toensure correct pricing of lease transactions.
The Group has a diverse tenant base with its ten largest tenants representing only 31.1% of rent roll.
Tenants covenants are analysed and security sought as appropriate as part of the lease approval process.
Regular contact with tenants is maintained to identify if tenants are suffering financial difficulties and their proposed actions.
Development management Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Poor execution of Poor development returns See Market risk above.
development programme Prior to committing to a development the Group conducts a through: detailed Financial and Operational appraisal process which incorrect reading of the evaluates the expected returns from a development in light property cycle: of likely risks.
During the course of a development, the actual costs and estimated returns are regularly monitored to inappropriate location: signpost prompt decisions on project management, leasing failure to gain viable and ownership.
planningconsents: Early engagement with adjoining owners.
failure to reach agreement 69.3% of income from committed developments already with adjoining owners on secured.
acceptable terms: In-house Project management team utilise appropriate level of speculative procurement methods to optimise thebalance of price development: certainty and risk.
construction cost ination: Due diligence is undertaken of the financial stability of contractor availability demolition, main contractors and material sub-contractors andinsolvency risk: prior to awarding of contracts.
a building being Working with agents, potential occupiers and purchasers inappropriate to tenant needs and aspirations are identied during the planning demand: application and design stages.
poor demand for In-house Leasing Marketing team liaise with external residential apartments advisers on a regular basis and marketing timetables quality and benchmarks designed in accordance with leasing marketing objectives.
ofthe completed buildings: All our major developments are subject to BREEAM ratings construction and with a target to achieve a rating of VeryGood on major procurementdelays: refurbishments and Excellent on new build properties.
ineffective marketing to Pro-active liaison with existing tenants before and during prospective tenants: and thedevelopment process.
poor development Selection of contractors and suppliers based on track record management.
of delivery and credit worthiness.
In-house Project management team closely monitor construction and manage contractors to ensure adequate resourcing to meet programme.
Regular review of the prospective performance of individual assets and their business plans with jointventure partners.
Post-completion reviews undertaken on all developments toidentify best practice and areas forimprovement.
Crystalise profits through recycling Drive rental growth Deliver development programme Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 65 Impact change Likelihood change fromlast year from last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The Group continues to monitor a low void rate which was 3.7% at 31March2014.
Tenant delinquencies were 0.7% of the rent roll for theyearto 31 March 2014.
The Group continues to actively manage the portfolio to maximise occupancy and drive rental growth.
During the year, we secured 25.9 million of new rental income including 12.1million of pre-lets.
69.3% of income from committed developments already secured.
Asset management on pages 34 and 35 Case studies on pages 35, 52 and 53 Our approach to sustainability on pages 53 and 54 Sustainability targets on pages 56 and 57 Impact change Likelihood change fromlast year from last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The Groups development programme of high quality core central London projects continues to attract quality tenants with12.1million of pre-lets secured since 1 April 2013.
Development management on pages 32 and 33 Case studies on pages 10 to 19 and 55 Our approach to sustainability on pages 54 and 55 Sustainability targets on pages 56 to 59 66 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 How we manage risk Development management Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation An inappropriate level of Underperformance Regular review of the level of development undertaken as a development undertaken as againstKPIs percentage of portfolio, including the impact on the Groups a percentage ofthe portfolio income prole and financial gearing, amongst other metrics.
Developments only committed when pre-lets obtained and or market supply considered to besufciently constrained.
Financial risks Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Limited availability of Growth of business Cash ow and funding needs are regularly monitored to furthercapital isconstrained or unable ensure sufficient undrawn facilities are in place.
toexecute business plans Funding maturities are managed across the short, medium and long term.
The Groups funding measures are diversied across a range of bank and bond markets.
Strict counterparty limits are operated on deposits.
Increased interest rates Adverse market Regular review of current and forecast debt levels and orafall in capital values movementsnegatively nancing ratios.
impact on debtcovenants Formal policy to manage interest rate exposure by having ahigh proportion of debt with xed or capped interest rates through derivatives.
significant headroom over all financial covenants at 31March 2014.
We estimate that values could fall by 48% from their 31March 2014 levels before Group debt covenants couldbeendangered.
Inappropriate capital Sub-optimal NAV per Regular review of current and forecast capital requirements structure sharegrowth and gearing levels and nancing ratios.
Crystalise profits through recycling Drive rental growth Deliver development programme Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 67 Impact change Likelihood change fromlast year from last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary With forecasted supply of central London ofce space expected to be scarce in the near to medium term, the Group has continued its near-term development programme to capitalise on the expected resulting rental growth given improving tenant demand.
Our market on pages 24 to 27 Development management on pages 32 and 33 Case studies on pages 10 to 19 Impact change Likelihood change fromlast year from last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The Group has continued to diversify the source and extend the maturity ladder of its debt nancing.
In September 2013, the Company raised 150 million through a convertible bond at 1% coupon.
Cash and undrawn credit facilities are 508 million.
Financial management on pages 36 and 37 Our financial position on pages 39 to 41 Notes 17 and 18 forming part of the Group financial statements on pages 130 to 134 Central London property values are expected to benefit from rental value growth and continued strong investment demand.
Short term interest rates have remained low over the last 12 months, although there is a growing expectation of increases in the medium term as the economy grows.
Financial management on pages 36 and 37 Our financial position on pages 39 to 41 Notes 17 and 18 forming part of the Group financial statements on pages 130 to 134 The Groups existing capital structure is well placed to take advantage of opportunities as they arise and to deliver our near-term development programme.
Financial management on pages 36 and 37 Our financial position on pages 39 to 41 68 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 How we manage risk People Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Incorrect level and mix Inability to attract, develop, Regular review is undertaken of the Groups resource retention of people to motivate and retain talented requirements and succession planning.
employees The Company has a remuneration system that is strongly Strategic priorities not linked to performance and a formal six-monthly appraisal achieved system to provide regular assessment of individual performance and identication of training needs.
Benchmarking of remuneration packages of allemployees isundertaken annually.
Regulatory Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Adverse regulatory risk Reduces exibility and may Senior Group representatives spend considerable time, using including tax, planning, inuence potential investor experienced advisers as appropriate, to ensure compliance environmental legislation and occupier interest in with current and potential future regulations.
and EU directives increases buildings Lobbying property industry matters is undertaken by active cost base participation of the Executive Directors through relevant industry bodies.
Environmental Policy Committee meets at least quarterly toconsider strategy in respect of environmental legislation.
Health and Safety incidents Resultant reputational The Group has dedicated Health and Safety personnel to damage oversee the Groups management systems which include Loss of or injury to regular risk assessments and annual audits to proactively employees, contractors address key Health and Safety areas including employee, ortenants contractor and tenant safety.
On developments, the Group operates a pre-qualication process to ensure selection of competent consultants and contractors which includes a Health and Safety assessment.
Contractors responses to accidents and near misses are actively monitored and followed-up by our Project Managers and Head of Sustainability.
Crystalise profits through recycling Drive rental growth Deliver development programme Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 69 Impact change Likelihood change Likelihood after fromlast year from last year mitigation Commentary An additional Project Manager and Development Manager were recruited in2014.
Staff retention is high at 95% against a backdrop of an increasingly competitive employment market.
Other senior managers remain unchanged.
Our people on pages 42 to 45 Remuneration report on pages 84 to 105 Impact change Likelihood change Likelihood after fromlast year from last year mitigation Commentary During 2013, new building regulations came into effect requiring further reductions on carbon emissions which will impact on BREEAM requirements and planning.
The risk to the Group from increasing regulation including certain EU directives having unforeseen consequences remains.
However, post publication of FCA rules in June 2013, the Group was determined tobe outside scope of AIFMD.
Property industry representation on pages 46, 47 and 51 Sustainability targets on pages 56 to 59 The Group had no reportable accidents during the year.
There were no other incidents across the Groups investment ordevelopment portfolio.
Sustainability targets on pages 58 and 59 70 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Governance In this section we explain how we maintain a high standard of corporate governance, describe our remuneration policy and principles, and present the report ofthedirectors.
72 Introduction from the Chairman 72 Corporate governance 84 Directors remuneration report 95 Annual report on remuneration 106 Report of the directors 110 Directors responsibilities statement Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 71 72 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Introduction from the Chairman Good governance is based on the correct level of oversight, good communication, a focus on risks and transparency in how we operate.
Our at management structure ensures that good governance extends beyond the Boardroom.
and forecast financial gearing, speculative and total development activity and single asset concentration levels.
All significant transactions are considered in the context of the impact they willhave on these levels, as appropriate.
To ensure that risks associated with major transactions, and how these fit in with the Groups strategy for long-term success, are fullydebated at Board level, Board approval is required for: all sales and acquisitions where the Groups share is over 25million: any development expenditure over 15 million: Dear fellow shareholder any leases of 1 million p. a. or above: and As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring the Board operates effectively and efficiently and that it continues to uphold the high any new financing equity or debt.
standard of corporate governance that underpins the culture of In the year ended 31 March 2014, in accordance with these authority theCompany.
I believe the effectiveness of your Board in the levels, significant transactions approved by the Board either in its achievement of good governance is based on the correct level of seven scheduled Board meetings or through its six unscheduled oversight, good communication, a focus on risks and a commitment meetings included: to transparency.
These, combined with our flat management the sale by the Great Capital Partnership of its last remaining asset, structure and high level of involvement by executive and senior Park Crescent West for 105 million: management in all our activities, ensures that this good governance the acquisition of Oxford House, 76 Oxford Street, W1 and the extends beyond the Boardroom and is continually borne in mind simultaneous entering into of rights of light and rights of way inthe successful delivery of the Groups strategic priorities.
agreements between GPEs 73 89 Oxford Street, W1 development Board oversight and our strategic priorities and Land Securities adjoining property at 7 Soho Square, W1 for 91.5 million: The Groups business model and strategy are outlined on pages 4 to 9.
In our Annual Report last year we identified that our strategic the sale of 90 Queen Street, EC4 for 61 million at a 1.7% premium priorities for 2013 14 were to: to the 31 March 2013 valuation and crystallising an ungeared IRR of c. 13% p. a. since acquisition: make selective acquisitions and recycle capital through property disposals: the creation of a 50:50 joint venture with HKMA with GPE transferring in its Hanover Square Estate for 202 million: deliver our development programme: and the sale of 20 St Jamess Street, SW1 for 54.5 million following drive rental growth.
anoff-market approach and reflecting a net initial yield of 2.1%: With 54% of the Groups portfolio acquired since 2009, our attention the development of our 411,800 sq ft mixed use scheme at for the coming year will be focused on crystallising the value we have RathboneSquare, W1: generated to maximise shareholder returns and appropriately design fees and measures to achieve vacant possession for manage risk.
We will seek to achieve this through the continued ourproposed developments at 73 89 Oxford Street, W1 and delivery of our development programme, the working of our assets 48 50Broadwick Street, W1: todrive rental growth and capital recycling activity.
the development of our 12 storey 142,500 sqft office scheme at See our strategic priorities on pages 8 and 9 12 14 New Fetter Lane, EC4 following the pre-let of the entire building to Bird & Bird at a rent of 8.3 million p. a. : As part of our monitoring of where we are in the property cycle, ateach scheduled Board meeting we consider a market conditions serving notice on VNU, the largest tenant at St Lawrence House, dashboard which, we believe, helps us identify emerging trends 54Broadwick Street, W1 to obtain vacant possession ahead of the within the wider economy, the UK and London property market proposed re-development and approval of expenditure for design andUK real estate financing markets.
fees and opening up works: the pre-let of the fifth to seventh floors at 95 Wigmore Street, W1 In April 2013, as part of our annual strategy review we also formally within the Great Wigmore Partnership to Bridgepoint Capital at adopted a number of operational parameters to support our risk arent of 2.7 million p. a. : and management activities.
These parameters include the levels of actual Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 73 the issue of a 150 million Convertible Bond to provide attractive Communication with shareholders and financing at a low fixed coupon to further enhance returns for otherinvestors shareholders in the execution of the development programme.
Communication with investors is given a high priority by the Board with 225 presentations being made in the year to shareholders and Each year, the Board formally reviews the level of oversight it has over potential shareholders by a combination of the Executive Director a variety of matters including strategy, transactions, finance, people team and Senior management below the Board.
Independent and sustainability matters including the level at which transactions feedback on presentations by the Executive Directors to all major should be reviewed by the Board.
At our April 2014 Board meeting, shareholders is provided to the Non-Executive Directors on a regular we concluded that the matters currently reserved for the Board and basis at the scheduled Board meetings.
This year, for the first time, the levels at which various transactions require Board approval wealso held a half-day investor conference for both shareholders and remain appropriate.
analysts at Oxford House overlooking our holdings at the East End ofOxford Street to explain how we approach the development cycle.
Board changes and succession planning Thepresentation, which was well received, also provided an In April 2014, we were delighted to welcome Charles Philipps to the opportunity for the audience to hear from our Senior management Board as Non-Executive Director, who brings with him a wealth of team including our Investment Director and Heads of Development, commercial experience.
In addition, external perspectives of our See our Board on pages 46 and 47 processes were provided by presentations from: Savills, our tenant at 33 Margaret Street, on how we meet external occupiers needs: from At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, Charles Irby will retire from our planning consultants, Gerald Eve, on how we navigate the the Board having served ten years.
On behalf of the whole Board, planning environment: and from our architects on Rathbone Square, Iwould like to thank him for his strong stewardship as Senior Make, onour scheme design for which we received planning consent Independent Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in January 2014. and member of the Nomination and Audit Committees, and his I am pleased to be able to report that we received external recognition valued objective and constructive challenge over the years.
for our investor relations efforts by winning IR Magazines Best The Board also reviews the succession planning and personal European Investor Relations in Real Estate Award and being highly development requirements for key executives and senior managers commended in the PwC Building Public Trust Awards for across the team.
In our Annual Report last year, I reported that Excellence in Reporting in respect of our Annual Report.
Andrew White had joined the Group in March 2013 to take up the newly created position of Head of Development, with responsibility Executive reward linked to the Groups performance for the total return of the development portfolio including successful for shareholders delivery of all development projects.
Andrewhassettled in well and Under the Groups long-term incentive plans, the level of reward isnow an integral part of our Seniormanagement team.
tothe Executive Directors and Senior management depends on the performance of the Group over a three year period.
I am pleased to Board evaluation beable to report that 100% of the Total Shareholder Return TSR In accordance with our policy to undertake the Board evaluation and NAV elements of the Groups 2010 LTIP and SMP awards vested process externally every three years, this year our evaluation was based on the Group performing in the upper quintile against the undertaken by Dr Tracy Long, Boardroom Review Limited, who constituents of the FTSE 350 Real Estate Sector, and reflecting the provides no other services to the Group.
The process covered the underlying strong financial performance of the Company as Board, Committees and personal performance, with feedback demonstrated through the trend of the Companys annual KPIs of provided to individuals prior to the results being presented at the TSR and NAV growth.
TSR for the three year period to 16 July 2013 April 2014 Board meeting.
The review concluded that the Board was 94%.
The NAV uplift for the three years to 31 March 2013 was continues to operate in an efficient and effective manner.
We also exceeded the Total Property Return benchmark for the as areas of particular strength, a high level of positive interaction and three year period to 31 March 2013 by 1.7 percentage points resulting challenge, a strong collective knowledge, regular consideration of the in a vesting level of 96 % for the annual SMP award and 75% for the impact of transactions on strategy and risk and a strong awareness one-off additional 2010 SMP award.
As at the date of this report, ofshareholder views.
The review recognised that a key element to forthe June 2011 LTIP and SMP awards, we expect 78% of the TSR retaining this strong culture would be the involvement of the whole hurdle, 100% of the NAV hurdle and 82.4% of the TPR hurdle to Board in determining the qualities and experience needed in the bemet.
orderly succession of the Non-Executive Directors over the coming Following a review by the Remuneration Committee of the years.
Following the review, the timing and processes undertaken by effectiveness of the incentive plans that we updated in 2010, we are both the Nomination and Remuneration Committees will also be pleased with the Groups performance and believe that the incentives revisited in the coming year to ensure that the objectives and continue to provide a strong alignment between shareholders and the operation of both Committees are more clearly structured to enhance Executive and wider management team.
As a result of last years Board evaluation process, this year we used the January Board meeting to better debate some of the areas to be considered in more detail in the annual strategy review and we also went electronic with our Board and Committee papers.
Martin Scicluna Chairman 21 May 2014 74 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Composition and independence Statement by the directors on compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code As at 31 March 2014, the Board comprises the Chairman, three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
The A summary of the system of governance adopted by the Company biographies of all members of the Board outlining the experience isset out on pages 72 to 85.
Throughout the year ended 31 March they bring to their roles are set out on pages 46 and 47.
Martin 2014, the Company fully complied with the Main Principles set out Scicluna as Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and its inthe UK Corporate Governance Code, publicly available at effectiveness, meeting with shareholders as appropriate and Toby www.
uk Courtauld as Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of theCompany.
Charles Irby, the Senior Independent The role of the Board and its Committees Director, is also available to shareholders as required and acts as a duringtheyear sounding board forthe Chairman.
Each year the terms of reference The Board of Directors for the roles of Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent The Board has a duty to promote the long-term success of the Director are revisited by the whole Board.
Company for its shareholders and its role includes the establishment, Each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered to be independent review and monitoring of strategic objectives, approval of major of the executive management and free from any business or other acquisitions, disposals, capital expenditure and financing relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their arrangements and of the Groups systems of internal control, independent judgement.
By the time of the 2014 Annual General governance and risk management.
Meeting, Charles Irby will have served on the Board for over ten years and he will, therefore, be retiring at the 2014 Annual General Meeting and Jonathan Nicholls will be taking over his role as Senior Independent Director.
Charles Philipps joined the Board as Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2014.
Directors tenure 1 As at 31 March 2014 Martin Scicluna 5 years 5 months Toby Courtauld 11 years 11 months Nick Sanderson 2 years 8 months Neil Thompson 7 years 7 months Charles Irby 9 years 11 months Elizabeth Holden 1 year 6 months Jonathan Nicholls 4 years 8 months Jonathan Short 7 years 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 6 years 7 years 8 years 9 years 10 years 11 years 12 years Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors 1.
Charles Philipps joined the Board on 1 April 2014.
Best European Investor Relations in Real Estate
