Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk management design, implementation and maintenance of the systems of The Boards approach to managing risk internal controls.
The Board has overall responsibility for risk management The Company has a risk register which identifies principal within the Group, including its joint ventures.
It recognises risks, the impact of each risk, the likelihood of it occurring that risk is inherent in the operation of the business and that and the strength of the mitigating controls in place.
effective management of risk is key to the success of the This register is updated annually or more frequently if organisation whilst it aims to maximise shareholder returns.
The risk register was last presented The Board has delegated responsibility for the assurance of to the Audit Committee and Board in March 2014. the risk management process and the review of mitigating controls to the Audit Committee.
The Executive Committee The significance and probability of each risk identified assisted by senior management is responsible for the to the Group is rated by senior management as having either a high, medium or low impact.
Greater weighting is applied the higher the significance and probability of Risk framework a risk.
These weightings are then combined to produce an overall gross risk rating.
Specific risk management safeguards for each risk are identified, detailed and rated LondonMetric Board by senior management as strong, medium or weak with Overall responsibility for greater weighting applied the stronger the safeguard.
risk management and The gross risk rating and strength of safeguards against that internal controls.
risk are then combined to produce a resultant overall net risk.
Consideration is given to the implementation of further action to reduce risk where it is considered necessary.
Finally, each risk is allocated an owner and details of how the safeguards are evidenced are noted.
The Board recognises Audit Committee that risk cannot be eliminated completely from the business Monitors and reviews at an acceptable cost but maintains a low appetite for risk register and internal financial control framework.
risk across each area of the business consistent with its Reports findings to the strategic objectives.
The risk register has been updated over the last year to take into account changes in the business of the Group following the Companys merger in January 2013 with Metric Property Executive Committee and Investments Plc, the 100 million tender offer in February senior management team 2013, the implementation of the integration plan including Prepares risk register and Internal Control Evaluation the consolidation of staff into one new office in May 2013 Questionnaire.
Considers and the consolidation of accounting systems in June 2013. and challenges mitigating The Group has undergone a strategic repositioning of its controls.
portfolio since merger and the impact of this as well as market and economic changes have been considered.
As part of the portfolio repositioning a significantly higher proportion of the Groups acquisitions and divestments have been by way of corporate transactions with increased inherent risk.
The Group has also undertaken significant loan refinancing over the past year and is poised to commence a number of large developments within the next 12 months.
In December 2013 a joint venture with new partners was created to acquire a DFS portfolio of 27 assets.
The Company has also had to consider an increasing burden of new regulation.
The summary overleaf includes the principal uncertainties and risks facing the Group: Pages 52 56 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2014 51 Risk management Key: continued Risk exposure increased Risk exposure reduced No significant change in risk exposure The table below summarises the principal uncertainties and risks facing the Group.
Strategic and economic risks The risk that the Groups strategy is unsuitable for delivering expected shareholder returns in the current market.
Change since 2013 annual Risk and impact Controls and mitigation Commentary report Unclear strategy An unclear and unrealistic strategy The Company has an The market review on pages 6 to in the economic climate and entrepreneurial approach and 7 contains details on the current property cycle leads to suboptimal its management team have property market outlook.
returns for shareholders and poor extensive experience inthe real The Group portfolio has been investment decisions.
significantly repositioned since The Board considers that this risk The Executive Committee are merger as shown on page 5. has remained broadly unchanged closely involved in transactions It now benefits from longer lease from last year.
and day to day management and expiry dates, higher yields and operate from one office location higher occupancy.
The retailerled which enables them and the Board logistics sector in which the Group to review and update strategy on a has invested significantly over the regular basis, adapting to changes course of the last year is one of the in economic conditions and new sectors which has experienced the opportunities as they arise.
highest levels of yield compression as evidenced by the recent The Groups financial forecasts are valuation increase of 95.9 million updated in the light of strategic and split noted on page 23. changes and regular reporting of strategy and objectives takes A new Asset Management place at Board and Executive Committee headed by Mark Committee meetings.
The Group Stirling was formed during the has a rolling threeyear forecast.
course of the year to enhance the provision of information to the Research is commissioned Executive Committee and Board.
into economic and occupational markets to assist in The postmerger relocation of both strategic decisions.
companies into one office has also improved communication and The Companys staffing plan review processes.
is focused on experience and expertise necessary to deliver its business plans.
Economic conditions The property market and The Group only invests in the Further details on the impact of economic conditions are UK.
This minimises exposure to the strengthening economy and notintheGroups control.
investor appetite is given in the market review on pages 6 to 7.
LondonMetric Property Plc 52 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk management continued Transactional risks The risk that the Group may not be able to source investment opportunities to fulfil its strategy or acquires assets which subsequently fall in value or otherwise underperform.
Change since 2013 annual Risk and impact Controls and mitigation Commentary report Investment opportunities Investment opportunities The extensive experience of the The Company has extended its are missed.
Executive, Investment and Asset MIPP joint venture arrangements Management Committees and with USS which reached full The Board considers the risk their network of connections investment during the course of identifying appropriately provide a privileged insight into the of the year.
It has also agreed priced investment opportunities property market and opportunities.
terms to extend its joint venture has increased given investor arrangements with its Middle appetite in the market and recent The Group ensures it has sufficient Eastern partner, Green Park yield compression.
funds in place to take advantage Investments, which are due to of investment opportunities by expire next year and entered into selling assets which have achieved ajoint venture with a new partner target returns and monitoring its to acquire a portfolio of DFS assets.
The DFS portfolio and a significant Joint venture arrangements are number of other acquisitions were in place with a number of well acquired offmarket.
See case funded partners, particularly study on page 15. for larger acquisitions, and the Company maintains good relationships with a wide range of debt providers.
Valuation risk There is no certainty that property The property cycle is continually The Group has undertaken a values will be realised.
monitored with investment and number of acquisitions during divestment decisions being made the course of the year where This is a continuous risk inherent to strategically in anticipation of managements skills and contacts the property industry.
have been used to regear leases with tenants between exchange The property portfolio performance and completion.
See regear is regularly reviewed and summary on page 28. benchmarked on an individual basis.
Focus on secure income, let to high quality tenants within a diversified portfolio of well located assets with increased weighted average lease lengths reduces the risk of negative movements in a downturn.
Acquisitions which have opportunities to enhance value by undertaking asset management initiatives and playing to the strengths of the asset management team and their connections are favoured as well as assets which are considered to be mispriced.
LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2014 53 Risk management Key: continued Risk exposure increased Risk exposure reduced No significant change in risk exposure Change since 2013 annual Risk and impact Controls and mitigation Commentary report Investments underperform Investments underperform Acquisitions are thoroughly financial objectives.
evaluated by undertaking a detailed financial, legal and The Board consider that this risk operational appraisal prior to has remained broadly unchanged Board approval.
Development returns Development projects fail The Company only considers The Company has used its to deliver expected returns shortcycle development relationship with one of its key due to inconsistent timing and its Executive Committee operators to enable it to prelet with the economic cycle and has significant experience a 1 million sq ft distribution centre adverse letting conditions or of development.
See case study on increased costs, planning or page 29.
Exposure to developments and construction delays.
phasing of projects is considered The redevelopment of Carter Lane The Board considers this residual as part of the quarterly financial in the City has secured prelets risk to be low.
forecasting process for the Board.
This development was initially Standardised appraisals and undertaken speculatively on the cost budgets are prepared for basis of a shortage of gradeA all developments with regular space being released to the monitoring of actual expenditure market versus demand.
against budget to highlight potential overruns at an early stage.
The procurement process includes tendering and the use of highly regarded firms to minimise uncertainty over costs.
Developments are only undertaken in areas of high occupier demand and significant prelets are secured where possible before development work commences to derisk projects.
Corporate transactions Corporate acquisitions import Similarly to asset acquisitions a the risk of unforeseen actual and large amount of due diligence is contingent liabilities for which there undertaken with the assistance is no recourse.
of advisors from major legal and accounting firms.
The Board considers the residual risk to be low given Guarantees and indemnities the enhanced due diligence are sought for potential liabilities process which is undertaken for which may arise in the future and corporate transactions.
where the credit worthiness of the counterparty is of insufficient strength insurance or lodging funds into an escrow account is a consideration.
LondonMetric Property Plc 54 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk management continued Financial risks The risk that the Group cannot access debt on terms that facilitate the implementation of its strategy.
Change since 2013 annual Risk and impact Controls and mitigation Commentary report Interest rates Adverse interest rate movements The Group uses interest rate At 31 March 2014 the Group had can significantly increase financing derivatives to fix or cap its exposure 358 million of hedges in place on costs on debt, reduce profitability to such movements.
its debt covering 86% of total debt.
and increase the risk of a loan Average cost has fallen to 3.9%.
Further information is provided in the Financial review on pages The Board considers this risk 45to 50. broadly unchanged from last year.
Availability of finance The inability to raise debt could The Group nurtures its relationships The availability of debt for the real prohibit the Groups investment with a diversified range of banks estate sector and its pricing has strategy or significantly increase and alternative lenders and improved during the course of the borrowing costs.
regularly reviews its loan facilities.
year with increased competition The availability of debt and its amongst banks and newcomers The Board considers this risk to have respective terms are considered into the market.
as part of the analysis for The Group has undrawn loan each acquisition.
facilities of 96 million as at 31 March 2014 and undertook anumber of loan refinancings during the year and post period end as detailed in the Financial review on pages 45to 50.
Loan covenants A breach of loan covenant could Headroom in loan covenants The Group has a modest level result from a substantial decline is actively monitored and of gearing of 32% and has in property values, a material loss incorporated into the comfortably complied with its of rental income or increased Groups financial forecasting.
financial covenants during the borrowing costs.
Non financial covenants are also year.
The Groups business model closely monitored.
is predicated on an LTV target of The Board considers this risk less than 50% as detailed on pages Gearing levels are carefully broadly unchanged from last year.
8 to 9. considered and stress tested before entering into new arrangements.
The impact of disposals on loan facilities covering multiple assets are also considered as part of the strategic decision making process.
The Groups loan facilities incorporate covenant headroom, cure provisions and sufficient flexibility to implement known asset management initiatives.
LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2014 55 Risk management Key: continued Risk exposure increased Risk exposure reduced No significant change in risk exposure Operational risks The risk that operational issues pose to delivering the Groups strategy.
Change since 2013 annual Risk and impact Controls and mitigation Commentary report Tenant default Tenant default and failure to Tenant covenant strength and The Group has a very low level of let vacant units leads to a loss concentration are assessed tenant default within the industry of recurring net income and for all acquisitions and and occupancy levels have dividend cover.
increased since the previous year to 99.6%.
The Board considers this risk to have The Groups dedicated reduced since last year as a result and experienced property of improving economic conditions.
management team work closely with tenants and consider action for slow payers.
Rent collection is closely monitored and reported to the property management team to identify potential issues.
The Group has a diversified tenant base.
Staff An inability to attract, motivate The remuneration structure The Company has announced and retain high calibre skilled for all staff is aligned to the the promotion of new Executive staff will impact the delivery longterm key performance Directors to the Board from the of the Companys strategy.
targets of the business with Executive Committee and the Executive succession planning is longterm sharebased incentive transition of the Chairman into vital to the longterm success of arrangements in place.
See Governance report on The Executive Directors have page61 for further details.
The Board considers this risk a substantial investment in broadly unchanged from last year.
The Group has rationalised its investment and asset Annual appraisals identify management teams postmerger training requirements and and has a team with sufficient access performance.
relevant skills to effectively manage a bigger portfolio.
Specialist agencies are contracted where appropriate if there are perceived shortterm skills shortfalls, for example in the acquisition ofthe Odeon portfolio.
On behalf of the Board Andrew Jones Chief Executive 3 June 2014 LondonMetric Property Plc 56 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance In this section: Board of Directors 58 Corporate governance 60 Nomination Committee report 66 Audit Committee report 68 Remuneration Committee report 71 Report of the Directors 84 Directors responsibilities statement 87 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2014 57
