38 Strategic Report Principal Risks MANAGING RISK REMAINS CENTRAL TOOURSUCCESS The Group recognises that its ability to manage risk effectively across the organisation is central to its success.
Risk management ensures a structured approach to decision making that aims to reduce the uncertainty surrounding expected outcomes, balanced against the objective of creating value for our shareholders.
We also seek long-term growth in net asset value per Risk Appetite share.
Our appetite for risks to net asset value from the The Groups risk appetite is reviewed annually and factors within our control is low, albeit acknowledging approved by the Board in order to guide management.
that our appetite for moderate leverage across the cycle It is equally applicable to investment interests in both amplifies the impact of asset valuation movement on net wholly-owned operations and joint ventures.
Whilst our appetite for risk will vary over time and during the course of the property cycle, in general the Group Corporate Risk maintains a fairly low appetite for risk, appropriate to our We have a very low appetite for risks to our obligations strategic objective of delivering a sustainable low risk to being responsible and well-regarded by our investors, progressive dividend stream, supported by long-term regulators, employees, customers, business partners, growth in net asset value per share.
suppliers, lenders and by the wider communities and environments in which we operate.
Property Risk We recognise that, in seeking outperformance from An integrated approach to managing risk our portfolio, the Group must accept a balanced level The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring of property risk in order to provide opportunities for that risk is effectively managed across the Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Our target portfolio should deliver attractive low risk Groups risk management process on behalf of the income returns with strong rental and capital growth Board.
Further information on compliance with the risk when market conditions are positive and show resilience management provisions of the UK Corporate Governance in a downturn.
We aim to enhance these returns through Code can be found on page 70. development, but seek to ensure that the drag associated The risk management process is designed to identify, with holding development land does not outweigh the evaluate and mitigate the significant risks that the Group potential benefits.
The process aims to understand and mitigate, In line with our income focus, we have a low appetite rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business for risks to income from customers, and accordingly objectives, and therefore can only provide reasonable and seek a diverse occupier base with strong covenants not absolute assurance.
and avoid over-exposure to individual occupiers in Accountabilities for risk management are outlined in the bespoke properties.
Appetite towards risk is considered at Board meetings Financial Risk whenever significant strategic, financial or operational The Group maintains a low to moderate appetite for decisions are made, and is a key part of ongoing financial risk in general, with a very low appetite for risks discussions about strategy.
Risk appetite is also formally tosolvency and to gearing covenant breaches.
reviewed by the Board annually.
As an income-focused REIT, we seek to maintain a stable Whilst the nature of the principal risks faced by the progression in earnings and dividends over the long term.
Group do not tend to change substantially from year to We have a low appetite for risks to this stability, but are year, their degree of impact and likelihood may change prepared to tolerate fluctuations in dividend cover as a more significantly.
consequence of ongoing capital recycling activity.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39 RISK MANAGEMENT BOARD Oversees the Groups CHIEF EXECUTIVE risk management and internal controls.
EXECUTIVE RISK Responsible for Approves the Groups OWNER risk management.
Assigns responsibility for RISK MANAGEMENT Owns risk in domain.
RISK MANAGER risks to senior Executive FUNCTION Assigns accountability Risk Owners.
for risks to senior Responsible for ensuring Develops risk policy.
the risk is within appetite.
Ensures that risks are Regularly reviews and Manages reports identified, assessed and assesses existing risks with risk register.
Provides assistance in Drives design and assessing and documenting implementation of controls.
Provides quality assurance and challenge to risk owners and managers.
EXECUTIVE MONITORING GROUP RISK AUDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEES COMMITTEE Monitors effectiveness Monitors Strategic and Regularly identify, assign Establishes, monitors of the Groups risk other risks.
accountability for, and and reports on the management and internal monitor the significant risks Groups approach to Delegates accountability control systems.
and corresponding controls risk management.
for risk management and within their domains.
Oversees the work of the Report status to Risk risk management function.
Challenges individual risk owners and managers.
EXECUTIVE RISK MONITORING RISK MANAGER RISK MANAGEMENT OWNER COMMITTEE FUNCTION Chief Executive Executive As assigned by Executive Provides information, assists Strategic RiskOwner in documentation and provides quality assurance Group Finance Director Finance Financial to risk managers, executive risk owners and committees.
Chief Operating Officer Operations Operational Others as appropriate Business Information Systems Executive Chief Investment Officer Executive Investment Investment As appropriate As appropriate Compliance 40 Strategic Report Principal Risks MANAGING RISK REMAINS CENTRAL TOOURSUCCESS CONTINUED The Board recognises that it has limited control over Principal Risks many of the external risks it faces, such as the macroThe principal risks have the potential to affect SEGROs economic environment, but it reviews the impact of such business materially either favourably or unfavourably.
risks on the business and actively considers them in its Risks are classified as principal according to their potential decision making.
The Board also monitors internal risks to exceed our appetite and cause material harm to and ensures that appropriate controls are in place to the Group.
Some risks that may be unknown at present, as well as Risks are considered within each area of the business to other risks that are currently regarded as immaterial and ensure that risk management is embedded within the therefore not detailed here, could turn out to be material Groups decision making processes and culture.
in the Group Risk Register is owned by a member of the The current principal risks facing the Group are described Executive Committee who works with a senior manager who is responsible for the monitoring and mitigation of across the following pages, along with the potential areas of impact on the Groups strategy and the principal that risk within appetite.
Communication across a relatively small management team, and regular consideration of activities that are in place to mitigate and manage such risks.
The direction of change in the level of the risk during risk at key management committees, allows management to respond quickly to changing events so as to reduce the course of 2014, along with an assessment of whether the risk is within our appetite, is indicated along with links adverse effects on the Groups risk profile.
to further relevant information provided in other sections Risks are assessed in both unmitigated assuming that no of this report.
controls are in place and residual with mitigating controls The principal risks that the Group reported last year have operating normally states.
This assessment makes explicit evolved in nature, as has the Groups response to them.
reference to risk appetite so that it is clear whether each No additional risks have been classified as principal since risk is within appetite, within tolerance, beyond appetite or 2013, and no principal risks have been fide-classified since below appetite.
Nevertheless, two principal risks have been The most significant risks and mitigating controls are extended in scope in response to changing circumstances.
detailed in the Group Risk Register.
The risk relating to European economic environment has been extended to include consideration of the risk of Controls relevant to each risk are also documented a UK exit from the EU.
In addition, Operational delivery and monitored in the Group Risk Register.
The risks has been extended to incorporate the risk of significant and controls in the register are used to inform the compliance failure.
Groups internal audit assurance work and drive managements annual assessment of control effectiveness.
Strengthening the link between significant risks and control assurance has been a particular focus in 2014.
The Group has a Risk Management Committee responsible for regularly reviewing the Group Risk Register, monitoring the most important controls and prioritising risk management activities.
The Groups approach to risk management has been documented and formalised in a policy.
The Executive Committee considers emerging risks and their impact on the Group Risk Register.
The Board reviews the principal risks twice a year and the Audit Committee receives a report twice a year on how the Group Risk Register has been compiled.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 41 KEY DISCIPLINED OPERATIONAL EFFICIENT CAPITAL AND CAPITAL ALLOCATION EXCELLENCE CORPORATE STRUCTURE Property Risks Risks to achieving above average rental and capital growth from our portfolio, including external market and competitive conditions, portfolio strategy, and execution of acquisitions and disposals.
RESIDUAL IMPACT ON CHANGE RISK WITHIN RISK STRATEGY IN2014 MITIGATIONS APPETITE?
FURTHER INFORMATION Market cycle The Board, Executive Committee and Yes The market outlook is detailed in Investment Committee monitor the the Chief Executives Review on The property market is cyclical and property market cycle on a continuous page 28. there is an inherent continuous risk that basis and adapt the Groups investment the Group could either misinterpret divestment strategy in anticipation of the market or fail to react appropriately changing market conditions.
to changing market conditions, which could result in capital being invested or Independent diverse sources of disposals taking place at the wrong price investment and occupier market or time in the cycle.
intelligence are regularly commissioned and considered.
This is a continuous risk with a moderate likelihood.
Portfolio strategy With the strategic portfolio reshaping Yes Further information is contained programme substantially complete, in the Chief Executives Review on The Groups Total Property and the Groups portfolio is better placed pages 16 to 28. or Shareholder Returns could to deliver strong performance through underperform in absolute or relative the cycle.
terms as a result of an inappropriate portfolio strategy.
This could result from: The Groups portfolio strategy is subject to regular review by the Board Holding the wrong balance of prime to consider the desired shape of the or secondary assets: portfolio in order to meet the Groups Holding the wrong amounts or overall objectives and to determine our types of land, leading to diluted response to changing opportunities and returns and or constraints on market conditions.
development opportunities: The Groups disciplined capital allocation Holding the wrong level of is informed by comprehensive asset opportunity assets or too many plans and independent external old or obsolete assets which assessments of market conditions dilute returns: and forecasts.
Missing opportunities in new markets or lacking critical mass in existing markets.
Execution of investmentplans Asset plans are prepared annually for Yes Further information is contained all estates to determine where to invest in the Chief Executives Review on Decisions to buy, hold, sell or capital in existing assets and to identify pages 16 to 28. develop assets could be flawed due assets for disposal.
to uncertainty in analysis, quality of assumptions, poor due diligence or Locally-based property investment unexpected changes in the economic or and operational teams provide market operating environment.
intelligence and networking to deliver attractive opportunities.
Our investment decisions could be insufficiently responsive to implement Policies are in place to govern evaluation, our strategy effectively.
due diligence, approval, execution and subsequent review of investment activity.
This is a continuous risk with a moderate likelihood as changing investment and The Investment Committee meets occupier market conditions require frequently to review investment and constant adaptation.
disposal proposals and to consider appropriate capital allocation.
Investment hurdle rates are regularly reappraised taking into account estimates of our weighted average cost of capital.
Major capital investment and disposal decisions are subject to Board approval.
42 Strategic Report Principal Risks Financial Risks Risks to the revenues, costs, cash flows, equity capital and solvency of the Group resulting from the capital structure of the Group and changes in external factors such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and the creditworthiness of the Groups major financial counterparties.
FURTHER INFORMATION Solvency and covenant breach Future funding requirements and covenant Yes Significant headroom exists headroom, including sensitivity to asset against all financial covenants.
A substantial fall in the Groups property valuation declines, are closely monitored Property valuations would need asset values or rental income levels could by the Group Treasury function, the to fall by around 39% from their lead to a breach of financial covenants Finance Committee which reports to the 31December 2014 values to reach within its debt funding arrangements.
Groups Executive Committee and the the gearing covenant threshold This could lead to a cancellation of Board.
Group Treasury calculate actual of 160%.
debt funding which could, in turn, levels and headroom with sensitivities to leave the Group without sufficient Further details of Treasury policy, financial covenants on a quarterly basis long-term resources solvency to meet funding headroom, financial and review non-financial covenants on an its commitments.
covenant ratios and related ongoing basis.
headroom and sensitivities are This is a medium-term risk with a The Audit Committee reviews the Groups provided in the Financial Review low likelihood.
In line with its Treasury policy, the Group maintains substantial undrawn headroom under committed bank facilities which are generally refinanced well ahead of maturity.
European economic environment We remain alert to the potential financial Yes France represents 8%, Germany and operational risks to the business 8%, Netherlands Belgium 2% The risk of a significant adverse impact arising from a deterioration in economic and Italy 2% of the Groups to the Groups earnings, net asset conditions in the eurozone, including a assets.
Poland, which also involves value, financial covenants or investor partial break-up.
exposure to the euro, represents a confidence arising from the exit of a further 7% of the Groups assets.
significant economy from the eurozone: We continue to maintain a high level of a UK exit from the EU: or sustained poor currency translation hedging against the Treasury policies are outlined in economic performance in the eurozone.
impact of a weaker euro and to closely the Financial Review on page 59. monitor our exposure to major tenants in These are short to medium-term risks the Eurozone.
with a medium and, in some cases, increasing likelihood.
Geographically, the portfolio is located predominantly in the relatively stronger European economies and regions.
Mitigations for the risk of a UK exit from the EU include maintaining substantial covenant headroom, access to diverse sources of funding, and FX and interest rate hedging.
Portfolio quality and geographic diversity provides further mitigation.
Financial leverage Yes Gearing is discussed in the The Group has targeted a look-through LTV ratio of around 40%.
Gearing levels Financial Review on page 60.
The Group could maintain an are also tracked and forecast internally inappropriate capital structure.
Financial to monitor headroom against financial leverage usually expressed as the LTV covenants.
The LTV target is considered ratio, but in financial covenants defined in strategic planning and in asset recycling as gearing needs to be managed decisions.
The Groups look-through LTV depending on the direction of the ratio was 40% at 31 December 2014. economic and property market cycle.
Depending on the Boards ongoing If gearing is too high when property assessment of the property cycle, the valuations are falling, net asset value Group is prepared to flex LTV moderately movements can be exacerbated and upwards or downwards to take advantage financial covenants put at risk.
Equally, of attractive investment opportunities.
if gearing is too conservative, there is a risk that attractive growth opportunities could be missed and the benefits of leverage not maximised.
This is a medium to long-term risk with a low and declining likelihood.
Interest rates In accordance with the Groups Treasury Yes At 31 December 2014 79.8% policy, fixed interest cover is maintained of net borrowings including the A significant adverse movement between 50% and 100% of net Groups share of net borrowings in interest rates could have an borrowings in order to balance the cost within joint ventures were at unacceptable impact on the and certainty of interest cost.
Groups earnings, on investment is formally reviewed quarterly by the market conditions or on tenant Interest rate hedging is detailed in Finance Committee.
the Financial Review on page 60.
This is a long-term risk with a moderate likelihood.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 43 DISCIPLINED OPERATIONAL EFFICIENT CAPITAL AND KEY CAPITAL ALLOCATION EXCELLENCE CORPORATE STRUCTURE RESIDUAL IMPACT ON CHANGE RISK WITHIN RISK STRATEGY IN2014 MITIGATIONS APPETITE?
FURTHER INFORMATION Counterparty default Financial counterparties are accepted Yes Treasury policies are outlined in based on a strict credit rating criteria the Financial Review on page 59.
A bank or other financial counterparty aminimum long-term credit rating of could default while holding SEGRO Aor better.
Compliance with the policy deposits or derivative assets, resulting in is monitored daily by both front and a significant financial loss to the Group.
back-office staff within Group Treasury.
This could also include the loss of solvency headroom from lost undrawn committed bank facilities.
This is considered to be a long-term risk with a low likelihood.
Corporate Risks Risks to business performance, legal and regulatory compliance, health and safety, environmental impact, reputation and business continuity arising from external factors or inadequate internal processes, people or systems.
FURTHER INFORMATION Operational delivery The Group maintains a strong focus on Yes andcompliance Operational Excellence.
The Executive and Operations Committees regularly The Groups ability to protect its monitor the range of risks to operational reputation, revenues and shareholder delivery, compliance, business continuity, value could be damaged by operational organisational effectiveness and failures such as: environmental damage: customer management.
failing to attract, retain and motivate key staff: a breach of anti-bribery and The Groups tax compliance is managed corruption or other legislation: major by an experienced internal tax team.
customer default or supply chain failure.
The tax function was subject to an internal audit in 2014 and judged to be Compliance failures, such as breaches of appropriately controlled.
REIT and SIIC joint venture shareholders agreements, tax regime compliance is demonstrated secured loan agreements or tax at least bi-annually.
legislation could also damage reputation, revenue and shareholder value.
Compliance with joint venture shareholder agreements is managed This is a continuous risk with a low by experienced property operations, likelihood of causing significant harm to finance and legal staff.
JV additionally has comprehensive governance and compliance arrangements in place, including dedicated management, operational manuals, and specialist third-party compliance support services.
The 2014 internal audit of SELP governance assessed controls as adequate.
Health and safety The Group manages an active health Yes Further information on Health and and safety management system, with Safety is provided on page 50.
Health and safety management particular focus on managing the processes could fail, leading to a loss of quality and compliance to good health life, injury, litigation, fines and serious and safety practice of construction and reputational damage to the Group.
This is a continuous risk with a low A published health and safety policy likelihood of causing significant harm to is backed up by independent site the Group.
inspections and a programme of staff and contractor training.
Regulatory environment Emerging risks in this category are Yes reviewed regularly by the Executive The Group could fail to anticipate legal Committee, Finance Committee and or regulatory changes, leading to a Group Risk Committee.
significant unforecasted financial or reputational impact.
Corporate heads of function consult with external advisers, attend industry This is a medium to long-term risk with and specialist briefings, and sit on key a low likelihood of causing significant industry bodies such as EPRA and BPF.
A number of potential risks were identified, assessed and managed during the course of the year.
None were considered to be material enough to be classified as Principal Risks.
