32 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 Risk management process Diagram 11 our principal risks and how we manage Them IDENTIFY REPORT Our Board recognises the importance of ASSESS RISKS AND AND MITIGATION identifying and actively monitoring the full QUANTIFY TO THE BOARD range of financial and non-financial risks WE CONTEXTUALISE facing the business.
By regularly reviewing RISK IN TERMS OF OUR the risk appetite of the business, the Board GOALS AND OBJECTIVES ensures that the risk exposure remains appropriate at any point in the cycle.
Whilst overall responsibility for the risk DEVELOP RE-ASSESS management framework clearly rests with ACTION RISK POSTPLANS TO MITIGATION the Board, managing risk is embedded as MITIGATE part of our everyday business activities and culture with all our employees having a role to play.
Risk and control Three lines of defence Diagram 12 Importantly the Board perceives risk not only as having a potential negative influence on the business but also as an opportunity that can be a source of Senior management audit Committee financial outperformance as we have expertise to take and manage risks others cannot.
For effective risk management it is necessary that the identification, assessment and management 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence of known and emerging risks form part of a Executive Financial control Internal audit dynamic process.
Committee Risk management External audit Senior leaders Health and safety Internal controls Environment and annual self Technology assessments Legal Internal policies and training STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our principal risks Land Securities Annual Report 2014 33 Risks in the context of our strategic goal and objectives Table 13 Change from last year We have set ourselves clear strategic objectives against which we measure our performance: 1 Deliver sustainable long-term shareholder returns.
Increased 2 Maximise the returns from the investment portfolio.
No change 3 Manage our balance sheet effectively.
5 Ensure high levels of customer satisfaction.
6 Attract, develop, retain and motivate high performance individuals.
In the same way that we measure our performance against these objectives, we also consider our risks and their potential impact on these objectives as well as our approach to mitigating those risks.
We have set out our principal risks below and grouped them together under the strategic objectives most likely to be impacted.
Maximise the returns from the investment portfolio Risk description Impact Mitigation Change from 2012 13 Customers Shift in consumer demand Large and diversified customer base no single customer represents more than Concerns over the with consequent impact 4.8% of rents : economic recovery on new lettings, renewal Of our income 71.4% is derived from customers who make less than a 1% of existing leases and Pressure on consumer contribution to rent roll: rental growth spending.
Consistent demand for the best retail properties in terms of experience and or Retailers unable to meet convenience: existing rental Active development programme to maintain a modern office portfolio well commitments.
suited to customer requirements: Experienced asset management team: Strong relationships with customers.
Market cyclicality Reduces liquidity and Large multi-asset portfolio: Volatility and speed relative property Monitor asset concentration our largest asset is only 5.9% of the total of change of asset performance.
portfolio : valuations and market Average investment property lot size of 74.1m: conditions.
Generally favour full control and ownership of assets 13.5% of assets currently in joint ventures : Average unexpired lease term of 9.0 years with a maximum of 11.0% of gross rental income expiring or subject to break clauses in any single year.
Acquisitions Reduction in revenue profits.
Experienced investment team: Inability to acquire Flexibility to invest in either of the two largest sectors in the UK property market: There continues to be new assets to replace Ability to control level of property sales.
a lack of attractively properties that have priced assets in both been sold.
the London and Retail sectors.
Manage our balance sheet effectively Liability structure Increased cost of borrowing 1.1bn revolving credit facility in place, which matures in 2016 and 985m of Lack of availability of bilateral facilities which mature between June 2014 and September 2018: Limits ability to meet The cost and bank funding.
existing debt maturities and Access to different sources of finance with most of our funding on a long-term availability of medium fund forward cash basis and with a spread of maturity dates.
The weighted average life of our debt and long-term requirements.
at 31 March 2014 is 9.3 years: facilities has Modest gearing Security Group LTV at 31 March 2014 of 35.5%.
Liability structure is Too much bond debt: not The Groups Asset and Liability Committee meets three times a year to monitor unable to adapt to enough drawn bank debt both sides of the balance sheet and recommend strategy to the Board: changing asset Insufficient term on the Continuous review of level of drawn bank debt to ensure flexibility maintained: strategy or property flexible debt in the revolver Our principal debt funding structure benefits from financial default only being values.
Bank debt not drawable due triggered at 1 times Security Group interest cover ratio currently 4.5 times or to high LTV.
100% Security Group LTV currently 35.5% : Aim to align length of bank facilities with our view on property cycle: The existing revolving credit facility provides flexibility as it allows debt to be drawn in certain circumstances even when the Security Group LTV exceeds 65%.
34 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 Maximise development performance Risk Impact Mitigation Change from 2012 13 Development Negative valuation Amount of speculative development restricted so that the impact of failing to Occupiers reluctant movements lease the unlet element of our development programme does not exceed the Customer appetite to to enter into Groups retained earnings: Reduction in income.
take on new space has commitments to Proportion of capital employed in development programme based on total improved, particularly take new space in costs to completion will not exceed 20% of our total capital employed, save within the London our developments.
that where a material part of the development programme is pre-let, this office sector.
It is still proportion can rise to 25%: variable within the Monitor market cycle and likely customer demand before committing to new Retail sector.
developments and secure pre-lets where appropriate: Refer to our Assessment of developments against hurdle rates.
Attract, develop, retain and motivate high performance individuals People Lack the skills necessary Competitive remuneration plans: Inability to attract, to deliver the business Appropriate mix of insourcing and outsourcing: Due to the high regard retain and develop objectives.
Clear employee objectives and development plans: held within the sector the right people.
Annual employee engagement survey to identify issues early: of our development people, they are Succession planning and talent management: increasingly being High profile, cutting edge developments and assets to manage.
Continually improve sustainability performance Environment Increased cost base Dedicated specialist personnel: Properties do Inability to attract or retain ISO 14001 certified environmental management system: not comply with customers.
Active involvement in legislative working parties: legislation or Active environmental programme addressing key areas of energy and waste.
Health and safety Criminal civil proceedings Regular Board reporting: Accidents causing and resultant reputational Dedicated specialist personnel: injury to employees, damage Annual cycle of health and safety audits: contractors, occupiers Delays building projects Established policy and procedures including ISO 18001 certification: and visitors to our and can restrict access to CEO chairs Group Health & Safety Committee.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our principal risks Land Securities Annual Report 2014 35 Current assessment of principal risks Emerging risks The inherent and residual positioning of our principal risks are illustrated in the Emerging risks are those for which the extent and implications are not yet diagram below in terms of impact and likelihood.
The inherent or gross risk is the fully understood.
risk that an activity would pose if no controls or other mitigating factors were in This year, we have engaged different groups of people in identifying the place.
The residual risk net risk is the risk that remains after controls have been emerging risks.
As well as those identified by management, we have consulted taken into account.
a number of stakeholders in determining what emerging socio-economic and environmental risks they consider important.
Identified through a formal materiality process detailed in our CR Report www.
com responsibility, our investors, customers, employees, community stakeholders and supply chain partners contributed their views on the risks they face, and those we can help them address.
The risks featured below represent the combined view of our management and our key stakeholders.
Diagram 14 Diagram 14 Diagram 15 Diagram 15 Curr Curr ent assessment ent assessment of principal risks of principal risks Emer Emer ging risks ging risks 2 2 4,8 4,8 2 2 3 3 5 5 4 4 1,6 1,6 3,5 3,5 1,6 1,6 11 5 5 7,8 7,8 7 7 2 2 4 4 3 3 6 6 7 7 Unlikely Unlikely Likelihood Likelihood Almost certain Almost certain 6 months 6 months Time Time Uncertain Uncertain Inherent risk Inherent risk 1 1 Customers Customers High impact High impact 1 1 Increased financial regulation Increased financial regulation Residual risk Residual risk 2 2 Market cyclicality Market cyclicality Medium impact Medium impact 2 2 Political uncertainty Political uncertainty 3 3 Acquisitions Acquisitions Low impact Low impact 3 3 Resilience of portfolio to climate change Resilience of portfolio to climate change 4 4 Liability structure Liability structure 4 4 Energy regulation, cost and security of supply Energy regulation, cost and security of supply 5 5 Development Development 5 5 Cyber-terrorism Cyber-terrorism 6 6 People People 6 6 Technology social media and occupier requirements Technology social media and occupier requirements 7 7 Environment Environment 7 7 Workforce construction skills shortage Workforce construction skills shortage 8 8 Health and safety Health and safety Low Impact Very high Low Impact Very high Certain Likelihood Uncertain Certain Likelihood Uncertain
