Strategic report Risk management The Group invests only in Londons West End, where the property market has a long record of resilience and stability.
The nature of our portfolio does not expose us to risks inherent in major speculative development schemes and we manage our balance sheet on a conservative basis with moderate leverage and good interest cover.
see pages 8 to 22 for more information on our business strategy and model.
See also pages 40 to 44 for the finance review Overview Monitoring risk As a foundation to effective day-to-day risk management we Operational and financial risks facing the Group are monitored encourage an open and honest culture within which staff can through a process of regular assessment by the executive team.
We are based in one office, and have just 23 employees.
The aim of these assessments is to: Consequently, senior management has a close involvement in Pr ovide reasonable assurance that material risks are identified.
all aspects of the business and all significant decisions.
Ensure appropriate mitigation action is taken at an early stage.
Risks are recorded in a risk register and are considered in terms Responsibilities of their impact and likelihood from both a financial and reputational perspective.
Risks, and the controls in place to mitigate them, Board Overall responsibility for risk are reported to, and discussed at, meetings of the Audit Committee management.
It is recognised that risk cannot always be totally risks and uncertainties eliminated and, in some cases, is outside of the Groups control.
regularly, along with actions taken, where possible, to Principal risks and uncertainties mitigate them.
Our principal strategic risks have remained broadly unchanged Audit Committee Assurance of the risk over the year and relate to issues which might prevent us from management process.
achieving our long-term goals of creating sustainable revenue growth and increasing the value of the portfolio and shareholders Executive management Design and implementation investment in the business.
These are set out overleaf.
ofthe necessary systems of internal control.
co. uk annual report 2014 risk management continued Risk management RISk AND IMPACT MITIGATION EVOLuTION Of RISk DuRING THE YEAR Risk of a sustained fall in visitor numbers and or spending affecting: 1 The West End EXTERnaL THREaTS Events which discourage visitors eg Such events, faced by all high-profile locations such as London, are often beyond our control, and are an inherent risk in our threats to security or public safety due to  investment strategy.
terrorism We work with local bodies and statutory authorities to maximise health concerns eg pandemics In response to recent global the safety of visitors to our villages and have detailed emergency disruption t o the public transport network political developments, HM response plans.
upon which the area depends.
Government has increased the We have terrorism and loss of income insurance in place.
UKs external terrorism threat A sustained and significant fall in visitors risk to severe.
could lead to reduced occupier demand.
COmpETInG DESTInaTIOnS The West End has a wide and enduring appeal.
More than Competition from other locations results in just a shopping destination, its variety of theatres, cinemas, long-term decline in footfall and consequently parks, museums, galleries and leisure venues attract rents and values.
unrivalled numbers of visitors, compared with shopping centres outside the West End.
Overall visitor numbers and We are not complacent and recognise that these visitors, and spending in the West End are the local working and residential communities, have a choice broadly in line with 2013. of where to shop and spend their leisure time.
We ensure Published forecasts continue that our villages maintain a distinct identity and seek out new to predict growth up to, and concepts, brands and ideas to keep our villages vibrant and beyond 2020. appealing.
see page 9 for information on the West Ends appeal see pages 16 to 17 for our proven, comprehensive management strategy 2 Our villages We have a consistent strategy on tenant mix, recognising Failure to maintain the special character the need for it to evolve over time.
Fostering, developing and and or tenant mix in our villages which promoting the unique character of our villages are key aspects is key to attracting visitors and potential of our business model.
We maintain a regular open dialogue occupiers.
with tenants and, being close to our portfolio, we have a deep A sustained consequential decrease in understanding of the environment needed by our tenants to With footfall and occupier footfall could result in downward pressure prosper.
demand across the villages on rents.
remaining strong, we continue The Group invests in areas where rental values are initially low to see sustained rental growth relative to surrounding areas.
The overall village management and low vacancy.
strategies we adopt are designed to create prosperous locations where higher rents are sustainable.
Our experienced management team is incentivised to deliver sustainable growth in rents.
The Board continually monitors individual village performance and prospects.
see pages 16 to 17 for our proven, comprehensive management strategy see page 22 for delivering and measuring long-term outperformance #048 risk management continued Strategic report RISk AND IMPACT MITIGATION EVOLuTION Of RISk DuRING THE YEAR Regulatory risk Increasing regulation and its unforeseen consequences causes uncertainty.
Changes in national and local policies and regulation could increase costs, adversely limit our ability to optimise revenues and affect our values.
Planning policies All of the Groups properties are located within We work closely with both local authorities to ensure that our the jurisdictions of Westminster City Council properties are operated in a manner which complies with their and the London Borough of Camden.
Changes local policies and statutes.
to their policies, particularly those relating to We also make representations to both authorities regarding planning and licensing, could have a proposed policy changes so that our views and practical Although local planning policies significant impact on the Groups ability to experiences are considered in framing policy.
continue to evolve, there are no maximise the long-term potential of its assets.
Our portfolio has a mix of uses so the Group is not reliant on indications that any changes income from one particular use.
currently under consideration would have a material adverse see pages 24 to 29 for details on our mix of uses impact on the Groups business.
Environmental regulation Legislation which is intended to bring about All our villages are within conservation areas and many of improvements to the environmental our buildings are listed as being of special architectural standards of buildings may restrict the future interest.
use of older buildings by making them We maintain a register of energy performance certificates subject to standards which cannot be met With greater clarity on EPC and are undertaking a phased programme of because the changes required would be statutory minimum energy improvements to future proof our buildings within the inconsistent with existing legislation for listed performance requirements, constraints imposed by current conservation area and buildings and conservation areas.
our rolling programme of listed buildings legislation.
works is delivering see corporate responsibility on page 51 performance above the minimum targets.
Economic risk Periods of economic uncertainty and We focus on assets in a particular location and with uses which deteriorating confidence may reduce have, historically, proved to be economically resilient and have consumer spending, tenant profitability and demonstrated much lower valuation volatility than the wider occupier demand.
We regularly assess investment market conditions: this includes bi-annual external valuations.
The UK economy has Changing economic conditions could lead to continued to improve over the a decline in the UK real estate market, eg the We have a diverse tenant base, with limited exposure to any past year.
We are continuing global political landscape, currency single tenant.
At 30 September 2014, tenant deposits totalling to benefit from rental growth fluctuations, interest rate expectations, bond 15.9 million were held against their rent payment obligations.
across our portfolio and yields, availability and cost of finance and the Our quarterly reporting includes forecasts of compliance and investment demand in the relative attractiveness of property against headroom in respect of our debt covenants.
We also have a West End remains strong.
substantial pool of uncharged assets which could be used to Short-term interest rates This could result in declining valuations, top up the security held by debt providers.
have remained low, and whilst decreasing net asset value, amplified by the there is a general expectation effect of gearing, and possible loan covenant Our loan-to-value ratio was 23.6% at 30 September 2014. of modest increases in the defaults.
see finance on pages 43 to 44 medium term, the general consensus is that rates will now remain lower for longer than previously anticipated.
co. uk annual report 2014 332 SHOPS ACROSS OuR PORTfOLIO #050
