26 Risks and Uncertainties The consolidation of Cineworld and Cinema City Holdings during the year has significantly changed the scale and structure of the business and, as a result, the Board has reviewed the Groups risk management and internal control framework in order to ensure that it remains fit for purpose.
The business environment in which the Group operates Although compliance against the revised Code will not impact presents a number of risks and uncertainties which continue to the Group until the 2015 full year disclosure, the Codes be the focus of the Boards ongoing attention.
The consolidation requirements have been taken into account as we continue to of Cineworld and Cinema City Holdings during the year has enhance our current focus in this area.
significantly changed the scale and structure of the business and, as a result, the Board has reviewed the Groups risk The Board has reviewed the principal risks and uncertainties management and internal control framework in order to ensure faced by the Group in pursuit of its business objectives and that it remains fit for purpose.
A number of enhancements to these are summarised as follows.
Cineworlds approach to risk the Groups risk management framework were deemed management and internal control is designed to manage rather appropriate from this review and are in the process of being than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives implemented across the enlarged Group.
and therefore, where possible, the Group has implemented mitigation strategies to reduce our overall risk exposure in line In addition, the Board is aware of the increased focus on risk with the Boards risk appetite.
The overall change in exposure management introduced by the issue of the revised UK for each risk during 2014 is indicated by an arrow highlighting Corporate Governance Code Code during the year.
Change Integration of the Enlarged Cineworld Group Principal Risk and Impact Example Mitigation The combination of Cineworld with the cinema assets of Cinema City The strategy adopted by the Group has been to focus on integrating International N. V. during the year has meant an increase in the complexity Group wide support functions, systems and processes.
This has included of the operations of the newly formed Group and the need to integrate the creation of newly formed Group wide teams for IT, HR, Finance and systems, people and processes.
Construction and, where required, the recruitment of senior staff.
Effective management of the integration process is key to ensure the The Deputy Chief Executive has taken overall responsibility for the newly formed Group can maximise the benefits and synergies of the process and he reports at each Board meeting on progress.
enlarged business and reduce the risk exposure to operational inefficiencies and or potential internal control failings.
Film Distributor Relationships, the Release Window and Alternative Media Change Principal Risk and Impact Example Mitigation Cinema-going is driven primarily by output from Hollywood, which is Cineworld continues to work hard to ensure it has good working dominated by six film studios.
relationships with a wide range of film studios, both major and independent.
Dedicating time and resources to ensure we build and Maintaining the Groups relationships with the large Hollywood film maintain relationships that operate as successful partnerships is a key studios, but also with distributors across the globe is critical to ensure part of our strategy in this area.
timely access to first-run films, favourable film hire terms and agreements for ongoing film distribution.
A further part of the Group strategy has been to establish exclusive distribution relationships with certain film studios in some Central and Any deterioration in these relationships could have a significant direct Eastern European CEE countries and Israel.
impact on our access to film content as well as the potential for the film distributors to consider alternative film delivery methods and or a Cineworld continually seeks to enhance its offer to customers so reduction or elimination of the release window.
maintaining visitor numbers and making our cinemas an attractive way for distributors to release films.
Furthermore, the continuing development of existing and new technology such as 3D television and internet streaming is also introducing increasing competitive forces as they offer alternative ways to release films.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 27 Availability and Performance of Film Content Change Principal Risk and Impact Example Mitigation Underpinning the overall success of the Group is the quality of the We work closely with the film distributors to understand as early as distributors film slates, the timeliness of their release and the appeal possible the upcoming film slate and therefore, forecast likely film of such films to our customers.
The film slates for 2015 and 2016 look good and stronger than those of recent years.
A year in which the film distributors do not produce the level of expected films or films underperform has a direct impact on cinema attendance Although access to the latest Hollywood film slate is reliant on our and therefore, the principal box office revenue for the Group partnership with the large film distributors, the Cineworld Group could decline.
strategy is to have access to a wider range of films over and above the traditional Hollywood blockbusters.
This allows us to reduce our overall Economic factors in terms of the availability of capital for financing exposure to reduced attendance by meeting specific local area demand film productions can also have an impact on the supply of films and or for type and content of films shown.
The operating flexibility of having digital projection technology available in all our cinemas has also been a key strategy that has enhanced the capacity utilisation of the Group.
Digital film content can be easily moved to and from auditoriums in our cinemas to maximise admissions.
Customer Experience and Competition Change Principal Risk and Impact Example Mitigation Although cinema admissions are predominantly driven by the quality Our strategy is focused on continually improving the quality of services and availability of movie product, ensuring that the Group continually we offer to customers such as enhancing our approach to online booking, aims to enhance the viewer experience through the quality of the removing clutter from our foyers, investing in technical innovation and products and services offered is also key to our focus of being the premium offerings such as IMAX, 3D and other large screen formats cinema of choice.
across the Group, upgrading our seating options and improving our retail offers.
Any decrease in the quality of the services we offer, from the ease of booking, the technology we use, to a friendly farewell on departure, The customer interaction with the Group outside of the cinema could result in loss of our customers to competitors and or other environment is also important and that is why we have continued leisure entertainment attractions.
to enhance our subscription and membership programmes to offer added value though offers and information.
Change Revenue from Retail Sales Principal Risk and Impact Example Mitigation Retail sales generally fluctuate in line with admissions, therefore, if A key strategy for the Group is to maintain a strong relationship with our admissions were to fall, revenue from retail sales could decrease.
Retail principal retail suppliers as this allows us to work with them to enhance spend may also decrease due to changes in customer preferences, our ability to continually run targeted promotions as well as bringing in decreased disposable income or other economic and cultural factors.
differing ranges of products to meet changing customer demand.
In addition, the price of items such as energy and foodstuffs has a direct impact on costs which we may not be able to pass on to customers.
The ability of the Group to understand and react quickly to the changing customer need is a key part to maintaining and increasing this revenue effectively.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 28 Risks and Uncertainties Continued Change Revenue from Screen Advertising Principal Risk and Impact Example Mitigation The level of revenues earned is directly affected by the overall demand Our offering to advertisers is being continually enhanced by for advertising, the competitive pressures for that advertising spend exploiting the benefits of, and particularly the flexibility provided and then ultimately by cinema admissions.
Change Expansion and Growth of Our Cinema Estate Principal Risk and Impact Example Mitigation Our estate growth is dependent on our ability to effectively expand As we now operate in more countries, there are more opportunities operations through the development of new sites or acquiring to expand.
The Group devotes a considerable amount of time assessing new site Planning laws, economic environment, availability of capital for opportunities and this, along with further acquisitions, is a key part of developers and location choice are some of the factors that may our future growth strategy.
impact the Groups development and growth initiatives.
This is particularly heightened if the Group continues to expand in emerging We also focus a significant amount of time and effort on maintaining markets as the risk of doing business in these areas is higher.
good relationships with potential key partners so we are aware of the availability of space in new developments and to ensure factors such as local planning laws and demographic changes are continually understood and monitored.
Change Retention and Attraction of Senior Management and Key Employees Principal Risk and Impact Example Mitigation The Groups performance and its ability to mitigate significant risks The Group uses a variety of techniques to attract, retain and motivate within its control depend on its employees and management teams.
its staff, with particular attention paid to those in key roles to help ensure the long-term success of the Group.
These techniques include Therefore, reliance is placed on the Groups ability to recruit, develop the regular review of remuneration packages, including share incentive and incentivise senior management and other key employees.
schemes, regular communication with staff and an annual performance review process.
If the Group loses the services of key people this is likely to have a direct impact on the ability to deliver business objectives.
Change Technology and Data Control Principal Risk and Impact Example Mitigation The Group continues to grow in its reliance on IT systems and data The Group IT function monitors, manages and optimises our systems, control from booking tickets on the website to managing financial including ensuring their resilience through back-up systems and information and everything in between.
Therefore, any critical system implementing security measures.
interruption for a sustained period could have a significant impact on the Groups performance.
Additional external experts are employed where necessary to oversee, and help manage, major projects involving the upgrading or In addition, any breach cyber or otherwise of data protection rules or replacement of key systems.
in security measures surrounding the storage of confidential or proprietary information held by the Group could result in access, loss The Group continually reviews its approach to information security, or disclosure of this information leading to legal claims, regulatory specifically controlling the sensitive data it holds through restricted penalties, disruption of operations of the Group and ultimately access.
A specific focus is on being fully compliant with Payment Card reputational damage.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 29 Change Regulatory Breach Principal Risk and Impact Example Mitigation The Groups business and operations are affected by regulations Management operate an ongoing cinema compliance programme covering such matters as planning, the environment, health and which is then supplemented by a programme of independent safety, licensing, food and drink retailing, data protection and the assurance reviews.
Our Group support functions use a combination of ongoing staff Failure to ensure ongoing compliance across the wide breadth of professional development and updates from professional advisers to regulation legislation may result in fines and or suspension of the ensure the Group is aware of the latest regulations in key areas.
activity or entire business operation.
Change Film Piracy Principal Risk and Impact Example Mitigation Film piracy aided by technological advances has long-term We proactively work with groups targeting film piracy such as the implications for the industry as a whole.
If the Group is seen not to be Cinema Exhibitors Association and The Federation Against Copyright proactively supporting the film distributors in combating this, there Theft in the UK.
These relationships ensure the Group can stay up to could be a direct impact on our relationship with them and therefore date with the latest piracy techniques used by individuals entering our affect our access to film content.
cinemas and therefore, allow us to continually review our approaches to monitoring and detection.
Additionally if cinemas are the source of pirated copies of films, distributors will consider alternative means of release.
Change Terrorism and Civil Unrest Principal Risk and Impact Example Mitigation Cinema businesses could be affected by civil unrest or terrorist acts We receive communications from relevant government authorities and threats which could cause the public to avoid cinemas.
This could be law enforcement agencies which keep us informed and allow us, when due to incidents in the locations in which the Group operates, such as needed, to monitor any potential impact external events could have on Israel or in other areas, that increase general unease in the locations in the security of our cinema estate.
Business continuity and disaster recovery plans are in place to ensure that The Group may additionally be subject to an increased risk of boycott, we can react appropriately should an incident occur at a Group site and targeted civil unrest or terrorist action threat as a result of operating in appropriate insurance is in place to mitigate the financial consequences.
and being linked to certain countries or types of film.
This could adversely impact the results of operations and the financial condition of the Group.
Change Extreme Weather Conditions Principal Risk and Impact Example Mitigation Unusual weather patterns such as unseasonably warm Summers or Most of the Groups cinemas are air conditioned and therefore extreme snowfalls in Winter can impact attendances at cinemas and, temperatures within the cinemas can be controlled as necessary.
particularly where this coincides with a major film release, could have a significant effect on revenues.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
