James Fisher and Sons plc Principal risks Principal risks Risk management framework The Board is ultimately responsible for the management of risk in the Group.
The Board determines the Groups policies on risk, appetite for risk and levels of risk tolerance and specifically approves: risk management policies and plans: significant insurance and or legal claims and or settlements: major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditures: and the Group budget, forecast and three year plan.
The Board has put in place a documented organisational structure with strictly defined limits of authority from the Board to operating units that have been communicated throughout the businesses and are well understood by the Executive Directors, the management team and business leaders who have delegated authority and specific responsibility for ensuring compliance with and implementing policies at corporate, divisional and business unit level.
Each operating unit is required to operate within this control environment and in accordance with established policies and procedures which includes ethical, anti-bribery and corruption, treasury, employment, health and safety and environmental issues.
The Board retains an oversight role and has a schedule of matters specifically resolved to it for decision thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, investment, financial, organisational and compliance issues.
This schedule is subject to review by the Board on an annual basis.
A list of the principal risks to the business that were assessed by the Board during the year is shown below.
Risk description and potential impact Mitigation Contractual As the Group continues to grow both organically and by acquisition there is a risk that The Group has established processes for contract reviews and utilises professional contracts are accepted on unsatisfactory terms.
The failure to deliver a contract in expertise to minimise risk in contract negotiation.
All major contracts are referred to accordance with its terms or customer requirements could have potentially significant the Board for approval and limits of authority are designed to ensure that contracts are commercial and financial risk and result in litigation.
reviewed and approved at appropriate levels prior to commitment.
Major contracts are subject to on-going review at levels and frequencies appropriate to performance and potential risks.
Recruitment and retention of key staff Our success depends on recruiting and retaining the right people in all areas of our Succession and talent development is regularly discussed at Board and trading company business.
James Fisher relies heavily on established strong management teams within its level.
Our strategy to attract and retain talent includes succession planning, identifying operational businesses and on the skills, experience and competence of all of its people and developing future leaders, regular appraisals, formal and informal training plans, to drive the business forward in established and new markets.
The failure to attract or graduate recruitment and appropriate remuneration incentives including the extension of retain personnel of the requisite calibre could have an adverse impact on the business.
share schemes to key individuals.
These strategies are designed to retain and motivate individuals and to ensure their commitment to the success of the business.
Reputational risk from operational incidents The Groups success is dependent on conducting its business safely and in accordance The Group places a particular emphasis on the health, safety and security of its with all applicable regulatory requirements.
Our businesses are reliant on ensuring that operations which are regularly monitored and reported to the Board.
We have policies and a good reputation is maintained with their customers.
An adverse operational incident processes to safely and compliantly manage our operations and to protect our employees would potentially damage the Group commercially.
Financial The Group is exposed to interest rate, foreign exchange and credit risk.
The Group manages interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks through hedging arrangements where appropriate.
The Group maintains relationships with a small key An increase in interest rates or change in exchange rates or credit restriction would have group of banks and reviews its funding mix and requirements at each Board meeting.
Energy prices The Group has significant operations in the oil and gas sector.
The Group has limited exposure to the exploration phase and seeks longer term contracts in the production and maintenance cycles in the oil and gas sector.
The diverse nature of A marked fall in the price of oil or gas leading to reduced investment in these markets the Groups markets, customers, and the territories in which it operates help to mitigate could indirectly affect demand for the Groups products and services.
the potential impact of a fall in energy prices.
Operations in emerging markets The Group has increasing activities in overseas emerging markets and key growth The structure of and reporting lines for our overseas operations and the relations with third economies which may be in association with local shareholders.
parties are continually reviewed as businesses develop to ensure an appropriate form of command and control is maintained, dependent on the particular operating environment This together with legislative restrictions, embargoes, sanctions and exchange controls and the nature and size of the business.
The Group allocates additional resource to areas all has the potential for increasing the Groups financial and governance risk exposure.
of higher risk and has enhanced its internal audit reviews for overseas businesses which Any significant failure to comply with local laws or regulations could lead to liabilities and are supported by external audit companies, where appropriate.
