26 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Management is one of the key responsibilities of the Board and the Audit Committee.
Our risks and uncertainties whether under our control or not are highly dynamic and our assessment and our responses to them are critical to our future business and prospects.
Our risk management framework identifies and removed as separate categories the risks manages risk in a way that is supportive of our relating to hedging, non-controlling stakes, strategic objectives of opportunistically deploying resources and reserves, arbitrage opportunities, capital, while protecting our future financial supply of commodities from third parties and security and flexibility.
Our approach towards risk management policies and procedures.
risk management is framed by the ongoing These all remain risks to which we are challenge of our understanding of the risks that exposed but we no longer consider them to be we are exposed to, our risk appetite and how standalone principal risks and uncertainties: these risks change over time.
and The Board assesses and approves our overall risk indicated changes in our assessment of the appetite, monitors our risk exposure and sets the impact of these risks in comparison with a year Group-wide limits, which are annually reviewed.
This process is supported by the Audit and HSEC committees whose roles include evaluating and The commentary on the risks below should be monitoring the risks inherent in their respective read in conjunction with the description of our areas as described on pages 9496 and page 98. methodologies in the compilation of this risk information which is set out on the next page.
Our current assessment of our risks, according to materiality, is detailed on the following To the extent that any of these risks are realised, pages.
In compiling this assessment we have, they may affect, among other matters: our current incomparison with last years analysis: and future business and prospects, financial position, liquidity, asset values, growth potential, simplified or shortened our explanations: sustainable development whether as to adverse combined risks where they are health, safety, environmental, community effects conceptually similar: or otherwise and reputation.
Overview of principal risks and uncertainties External sustainable development Business activities Pages 28, 29, 32 and 33 Pages 3031 Fluctuations in supply of or demand Counterparty credit and performance Increased risk for commodities Reductions of commodity prices Laws, enforcement Emissions and climate change Fluctuations in currency exchange rates Sourcing, freight, storage infrastructure No change in risk and logistics Geopolitical risk Development and operating risks and hazards Liquidity risk Community relations Employees Health, Safety, Environment, including potential catastrophes Cost control Decreased risk 27 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information The natural diversification of our portfolio of making use of credit enhancement products, commodities, geographies, currencies, assets and such as letters of credit, insurance policies and liabilities is a key source of mitigation for many bank guarantees and imposing limits on open of the risks we face.
In addition, through our accounts extended: governance processes as noted previously and our management of marketing risk, including our proactive management approach we seek to daily analysis of Group value at risk VaR : and mitigate, where possible, the impacts of certain adhering to the principles encapsulated in the risks should they materialise.
In particular: Glencore Corporate Practice GCP programme.
our liquidity risk management policy requires us to maintain via a minimum prescribed level sufficient cash and cash equivalents and other sources of committed funding available to meet anticipated and unanticipated funding needs: In this section, we have sought to update our Understanding the information on risks explanations, reflecting our current outlook.
There are many risks and uncertainties which Mostly this entails emphasising certain risks have the potential to significantly impact our more strongly than other risks rather than the business including competitive, economic, elimination of, or creation of, risks.
We have also political, legal, regulatory, social, business and sought to provide a more concise explanation financial.
The order in which these risks and of our risks.
In order to provide both historic uncertainties appear does not necessarily reflect and updated information on our risks, there is the likelihood of their occurrence or the relative available on our website at www.
com magnitude of their potential material adverse who-we-are corporate-governance governanceeffect on our business.
downloads the text of this section from last years We have sought to provide examples of particular annual report which we may supplement from risks.
However, in every case these do not attempt time to time.
These principal risks and To provide for concise text: uncertainties should be considered in connection with any forward looking statements in this where we hold minority interests in certain document as explained on page 205. businesses, although these entities are not generally subsidiaries, the interests are mostly Identifying, quantifying and managing risk taken as being referred to in analysing these is complex and challenging.
Although it is risks, and business refers to these and any our policy and practice to identify and, where business of the Group: appropriate and practical, actively manage such risks to support objectives in managing capital where we refer to natural hazards, events of and future financial security and flexibility, our nature or similar phraseology we are referring policies and procedures may not adequately to matters such as earthquake, flood, severe identify, monitor and quantify all risks.
weather and other natural phenomena: The comments below describe our attempts in each case our mitigation of risks will to manage, balance or offset risk.
Inevitably, include the taking out of insurance where however, risk by its very nature is uncertain and itiscustomary and economic to do so: events may lead to our policies and procedures risks include uncertainties: not having a material mitigating effect on the negative impacts of the occurrence of a particular laws include regulations of any type: event.
Since many risks are connected, our a reference to a note is a note to the 2014 analysis should be read against all risks to which financial statements: and it may be relevant.
we have referred to our 2014 Sustainability Report which will be published in April 2015.
28 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Comments External Fluctuations in the supply of, or demand for, thecommodities in which we operate We are dependent on the expected volumes of supply or demand This risk is currently prevalent in our industry where for commodities in which we are active, which can vary for demand growth uncertainty exists in various commodities many reasons, such as competitor supply policies, changes in we produce and market, notably within some copper, coal resource availability, government policies and regulation, costs and oil markets, while supply seeks to balance such demand.
ofproduction, global and regional economic conditions and events See the Chief Executives review on page 6. of nature.
Reductions of commodity prices The revenue and earnings of substantial parts of our industrial The price declines over 2014 in some of our commodities asset activities and, to a lesser extent, our marketing activities, are especially copper, coal, oil, precious metals and iron ore, dependent upon prevailing commodity prices.
Commodity prices have been a drag on the 2014 return oncapital measure.
are influenced by a number of external factors, including the Against the backdrop of these fluctuations, as we would supply of and demand for commodities, speculative activities expect, there were no breaches during2014 of our by market participants, global political and economic conditions $100 million Group VaR limit pertaining to our marketing and related industry cycles and production costs in major activities see page 92. producing countries.
See the Chief Executives review on page 6.
A significant downturn in the price of commodities generally Details of impairments recorded during the year are results in a decline in our profitability and could potentially contained in note 5. result in impairments.
It is especially harmful to profitability in the industrial activities which are more directly exposed to price risk due to the higher level of fixed costs, while our marketing activities are ordinarily substantially hedged in respect of price risk and principally operate a service-like margin-based model.
Fluctuation in currency exchange rates The vast majority of our transactions are denominated in US This risk is currently prevalent in our industry.
However, dollars, while operating costs are spread across many different these fluctuations tend to move in symmetry with those in countries, the currencies of which fluctuate against the US dollar.
commodity prices and supply and demand fundamentals A depreciation in the value of the US dollar against one or more as noted above, such that decreases in commodity prices are of these currencies will result in an increase in the cost base of the generally associated with increases in the US dollar relative relevant operations in US dollar terms.
to local currencies and vice versa.
Consequently, the current relative strength of the US dollar has been beneficial to us The main currency exchange rate exposure is through our through lower equivalent US dollar operating costs at many industrial assets, as a large proportion of the costs incurred by of our operations.
This positive, however, has been more these operations is denominated in the currency of the country than offset by the substantial falls in commodity prices inwhich each asset is located.
The largest of these exposures is described above.
tothe currencies listed on page 44.
Geopolitical risk We operate and own assets in a large number of geographic During 2014, we were subject to significant changes in fiscal regions and countries, some of which are categorised as policy from countries in South America, Africa and Asia developing, complex or having unstable political or social Pacific and we expect this trend to continue in 2015 as the climates.
As a result, we are exposed to a wide range of political, global geopolitical climate continues to evolve.
economic, regulatory and tax environments.
Policies or laws in See map on page 6 that sets out our global these countries may change in a manner that may be adverse for operational footprint.
Also, some countries with more stable political environments may nevertheless change policies and laws in a manner adverse tous.
We have no control over changes to policies, laws and taxes.
The geopolitical risks associated with operating in a large number of regions and countries, if realised, could affect our ability to manage or retain interests in our industrial activities.
29 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Risk Comments Laws, enforcement, permits and licencesto operate We are exposed to and subject to extensive laws including those We are committed to complying with or exceeding the laws relating to bribery and corruption, taxation, anti-trust, financial and external requirements applicable to our operations markets regulation, management of natural resources, licences and products.
Through this and monitoring of legislative over resources owned by various governments, exploration, requirements, engagement with government and regulators, production and post-closure reclamation, the employment of and compliance with applicable permits and licences, we expatriates and cultural preservation.
The terms attaching to any strive to ensure full compliance.
We also seek to manage permit or licence to operate may also be onerous.
Furthermore, in these risks through the Glencore Corporate Practice GCP certain countries title to land and rights and permits in respect of programme.
Its practical application across our business is resources including indigenous title is not always clear.
Title to detailed in our code of conduct www.
com whoour rights may be challenged and insurance may not be available.
we-are corporate-governance policies code-of-conduct and this framework is reflected in our Sustainability Reports.
The legal system and dispute resolution mechanisms in some The Groups anti-corruption policy may also be found at: countries may be uncertain or underfunded so that we may www.
com who-we-are corporate-governance be unable to enforce our understanding of our title, permits or policies .
Laws may allow lawsuits to be brought, based upon damage resulting from past and current operations, and could lead to the imposition of substantial sanctions, the cessation of operations, compensation and remedial and or preventative orders.
Moreover, the costs associated with legal compliance including regulatory permits are substantial.
Any changes to these laws or their more stringent enforcement or restrictive interpretation could cause additional material expenditure to be incurred including in our marketing business or impose suspensions of operations and delays in the development of industrial assets.
Failure to obtain or renew a necessary permit could mean that we would be unable to proceed with the development or continued operation of an asset.
A dispute relating to an industrial asset could disrupt or delay relevant extraction, processing or other projects and or impede our ability to develop new industrial properties.
Liquidity risk As at 31 December 2014, the Group had available undrawn Our failure to access funds liquidity would severely limit our committed credit facilities and cash amounting to ability to engage in desired activities and grow our business.
$9.4 billion, comfortably ahead of our $3 billion minimum Liquidity risk is the risk that we are unable to meet our payment prescribed level.
In addition, note 26 details our financial obligations when due, or are unable, on an ongoing basis, to andcapital risk management approach.
borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or secured basis at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments.
While we adjust our minimum internal liquidity threshold from time to time in response to changes in market conditions, this minimum internal liquidity target may be breached due to circumstances we are unable to control, such as general market disruptions, sharp movements in the prices of commodities or an operational problem that affects our suppliers or customers or ourselves.
A lack of liquidity may mean that we will not have funds available to maintain or increase marketing and industrial activities, both of which employ substantial amounts of capital.
If we do not have funds available to sustain or develop our marketing and industrial activities then these activities will decrease.
30 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Comments Business activities Counterparty credit and performance risk Financial assets consisting principally of marketable securities, We monitor the credit quality of our counterparties and seek receivables and advances, derivative instruments and long-term to reduce the risk of customer non-performance by requiring advances and loans can expose us to concentrations ofcredit risk.
credit support from creditworthy financial institutions including making extensive use of credit enhancement Furthermore, we are subject to non-performance risk by our products, such as letters of credit, insurance policies and suppliers, customers and hedging counterparties, in particular via bank guarantees, where appropriate, and by imposing limits our marketing activities.
Non-performance by suppliers, customers and hedging In addition, note 26 details our financial and capital risk counterparties may occur and cause losses in a range of situations, management approach.
such as: a significant increase in commodity prices resulting in suppliersbeing unwilling to honour their contractual commitments to sell commodities at pre-agreed prices: a significant reduction in commodity prices resulting in customers being unwilling or unable to honour their contractual commitments to purchase commodities at pre-agreed prices: and customers taking delivery of commodities or hedging counterparties may find themselves unable to honour their contractual obligations due to financial distress or other reasons.
Sourcing, freight, storage, infrastructure andlogistics Our marketing activities require access to significant amounts Our global network of infrastructure and logistics operations of third party supplies of commodities, freight, storage, such as vessels, oil terminals and tank farms, metals and infrastructure and logistics support and we are exposed to other warehouses and grain silos assists in mitigating risks reduced accessibility and or increased pressure in the costs related to disruptions to or limitations of sourcing, freight, of these.
In addition, we often compete with other producers, storage, infrastructure and logistics.
purchasers or marketers of commodities or other products See map on page 6 that sets out our global for limited storage and berthing facilities at ports and freight operational footprint.
terminals, which can result in delays in loading or unloading products and expose us to significant delivery interruptions.
Increases in the costs of freight, storage, infrastructure and logistics support or limitations or interruptions in the supply chain including any disruptions, refusals or inabilities to supply could adversely affect our business.
Development and operating risks and hazards Our industrial activities are subject to numerous risks and Development and operating risks and hazards are managed hazards normally associated with the initiation, development, through our continuous development status evaluation and operation and or expansion of natural resource projects, many reporting processes and ongoing assessment, reporting of which are beyond our control.
These include unanticipated and communication of the risks that affect our operations variations in grade and other geological problems so that through the annual risk review processes and updates to the anticipated or stated reserves, resources or mineralised potential risk register.
may not conform to expectations and in particular may not We publish quarterly our production results and annually reflect the reserves and resources which the Group reports our assessment of reserves and resources based on available and as a result the anticipated volumes or grades may not be drilling and other data sources.
Other examples include seismic activity, natural During 2014, continued power shortages and reliability at hazards, processing problems, technical and IT malfunctions, our copper operations in the Democratic Republic of Congo unavailability of materials and equipment, reliability and or affected production.
In response, we continued to invest in constraints of infrastructure, industrial accidents, labour force long-term power solutions via the Inga dam refurbishment insufficiencies, disruptions and disputes, disasters, protests, together with short-term solutions through the installations forcemajeure factors, cost overruns, delays in permitting or of mobile generating capacity.
otherregulatory matters, vandalism and crime.
Production at Koniambo nickel was partially suspended in December 2014 following detection of a metal leak at the metallurgical plant.
31 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Risk Comments Development and operating risks and hazards continued The development and operating of assets may lead to future upward revisions in estimated costs, completion delays, cost overruns, suspension of current projects or other operational difficulties.
Risks and hazards could result in damage to, or destruction of, properties or production facilities, may cause production to be reduced or to cease at those properties or production facilities, may result in a decrease in the quality of the products, personal injury or death, third party damage or loss, and may result in actual production differing from estimates of production.
Natural hazards, sabotage or other interference in operations, could increase costs or delay supplies.
In some locations poor quality infrastructure is endemic.
The realisation of these development and operating risks and hazards could require significant and additional capital and operating expenditures tofund abatement, restoration or compensation to third parties forany loss and or payment of fines or damages.
Cost control As commodity prices are outside of our control, the Maintaining costs and, where possible, lowering them is competitiveness and sustainable long-term profitability of our supported by our reporting on these measures, coupled with industrial asset portfolio depends significantly on our ability to the inclusion of certain cost control evaluation measures in closely manage costs and maintain a broad spectrum of low-cost, assessing management performance.
Costs associated with the operation of our industrial assets can be broadly categorised into labour costs and other operating and infrastructure costs.
Overall production and operating costs are heavily influenced by the extent of ongoing development required, ore grades, mine planning, processing technology, logistics, energy and supply costs and the impact of exchange rate fluctuations.
All of our industrial assets are, to varying degrees, affected by changes in costs for labour and fuel.
Unit production costs are also significantly affected by production volumes and therefore production levels are frequently a key factor in determining the overall cost competitiveness of an industrial asset.
32 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Comments Sustainable development Emissions and climate change Our global presence exposes us to a number of jurisdictions in Through our sustainability programme operated under our which regulations or laws have been or are being considered to GCP framework, we strive to ensure emissions and climate limit or reduce emissions.
The likely effect of these changes will change issues are identified, understood and effectively be to increase the cost for fossil fuels, impose levies for emissions managed and monitored in order to meet international in excess of certain permitted levels and increase administrative best practice standards and ensure regulatory compliance.
costs for monitoring and reporting.
Third parties including We seek to ensure that there is a balanced debate with regard potential or actual investors may also introduce policies adverse to the ongoing use of fossil fuels.
toa company which has significant activities in or concerning Our 2014 Sustainability Report will provide further details fossil fuels a fossil fuel company.
of the operation of our community engagement programme, Increasing regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, including including the international standards to which we theprogressive introduction of carbon emissions trading voluntarily submit.
mechanisms and tighter emission reduction targets is likely to In recent months, there have been announcements by raise costs.
In addition, regulation of greenhouse gas emissions some investment groups regarding the introduction of, could increase costs and reduce demand.
Furthermore, the desire ortightening of policies, concerning reduced investment or ability to invest in us by some investors may potentially be infossil fuel companies.
reduced or eliminated due to changes in investment policies concerning fossil fuels companies.
Community relations The continued success of our existing operations and our future We believe that the best way to manage these vital projects are in part dependent upon broad support and a healthy relationships is to adhere to the principles of open dialogue relationship with the respective local communities.
In doing so, we engage with local that we are not respecting or advancing the interests of the communities to demonstrate our operations contribution communities in which we operate, could have a negative impact to socio-economic development and seek to ensure that on our social licence to operate, our ability to secure access to appropriate measures are taken to prevent or mitigate new resources and our financial performance.
The consequences possible adverse impacts on the community, along with of negative community reaction could also have a material the regular reporting as outlined on our website at: adverse impact on the cost, profitability, ability to finance or even www.
com sustainability our-approach-tothe viability of an operation and the safety and security of our sustainability communities engagement workforce and assets.
Such events could lead to disputes with governments or with local communities or any other stakeholders and give rise to reputational damage.
Even in cases where no adverse action is actually taken, the uncertainty associated with such instability could negatively impact the perceived value of our assets.
Employees The maintenance of positive employee and union relations and We understand that one of the key factors in our the ability to attract and retain skilled workers, including senior success is a good and trustworthy relationship with our management are key to our success.
This can be challenging, people.
This priority is reflected in the principles of our especially in locations experiencing political or civil unrest, or sustainability programme and related guidance, which in which they may be exposed to other hazardous conditions.
require regular, open, fair and respectful communication, Many employees are represented by labour unions under various zero tolerance for human rights violations, fair remuneration collective labour agreements.
Their employing company may not and, above all, a safe working environment, as outlined on be able to satisfactorily renegotiate its collective labour agreements our website at: www.
com careers our-people when they expire and may face tougher negotiations or higher wage demands than would be the case for non-unionised labour.
In addition, existing labour agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage.
33 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Risk Comments Health, safety, environment, including potential catastrophes Our operations are subject to health, safety and environmental Our approach to sustainability and our expectations of our laws along with compliance with our corporate sustainability employees, our contractors and our business partners are framework.
The processes and chemicals used in extraction and outlined in our sustainability programme.
This underpins production methods, as well as transport and storage, may impose our approach towards social, environmental, safety environmental hazards.
A serious failure in these areas could lead and compliance indicators, providing clear guidance on to an emergency or catastrophe at a site.
Environmental hazards the standards we expect all our operations to achieve.
may affect not only our properties but also third parties.
Through the reporting function within the programme, our The storage of tailings at our industrial assets and the storage and Board and senior management receive regular updates and transport of oil are material examples of these risks.
have a detailed oversight on how our business is performing across all of the sustainability indicators.
We monitor Environmental including those associated with particular catastrophic risks, in particular across our portfolio, and environmental hazards and health and safety laws may result operate emergency response programmes.
in increased costs or, in the event of non-compliance or incidents Compliance with international and local regulations and causing injury or death or other damage at or to our facilities standards are our top priorities.
Our operating procedures or surrounding areas may result in significant losses, including and those of our partners in relation to owned tankers arising from 1 interruptions in production, litigation and conform to industry best practice working under the imposition of penalties and sanctions and 2 having licences and guidelines of the International Maritime Organisation IMO, permits withdrawn or suspended or being forced to undertake relevant Flag States and top tier classification societies.
extensive remedial clean-up action or to pay for governmentordered remedial clean-up actions.
In each case liability may See also pages 14 to 18. arise where the hazards have been caused by any previous or subsequent owners or operators of the property, by any past or present owners of adjacent properties, or by third parties.
