Principal Risks BEST PRACTICE ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT HAS FURTHER ENHANCED OUR PROCESSES The Board sets the policy for managing risk in the business.
ensure that risks are identified promptly by management It recognises the importance of having effective processes teams, to support the achievement of their strategic and procedures for identifying, actively monitoring, objectives and ensure that they are mitigated and mitigating and managing the financial and non-financial managed appropriately to support the delivery of the risks facing the Group.
By regularly reviewing the risk Groups strategic plan.
appetite of the business within the COSO ERM framework see glossary on page 126 for full definition, and satisfying The Group manages risk by operating a three lines of itself that the Groups principal risks are managed within this assurance risk and control model.
The first line consists of appetite, the Board ensures that the Groups risk exposure operational management implementing and maintaining remains appropriate and links into effective delivery of its effective internal controls and risk management procedures.
The Board has ultimate accountability They are supported by a number of horizontally and for the execution of risk management systems and controls, vertically integrated Group functions which, together with with the Risk Committee, composed of members of the their performance management procedures, form the Group Executive, responsible for overseeing execution of second line.
Internal Audit serves as the third line, entrusted risk management throughout the Group.
The Board has with reviewing certain controls and risk management delegated responsibility for monitoring and reviewing the processes and procedures, identifying areas for effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk improvement and reporting to senior management and the managements systems to the Audit Committee.
See Audit Committee due to its independence and objectivity.
pages 52 to 55 for more information.
In addition, the Audit Committee takes account of the views of the external auditors.
The process for monitoring and controlling risk, illustrated below, emphasises continuous evaluation and monitoring Under the sponsorship of the Chief Financial Officer, a by the Groups management teams at each appropriate project was commenced during 2014 to further enhance entity level: business unit, Sector, specialist function or the Groups Governance, Risk and Assurance Framework.
The Groups ERM framework is structured to The objective of the project is to update this in line with 1.
Risks & Actions Adopted COSO ERM model, aligned to new Financial Reporting Council guidance.
Three Lines of Assurance Monitoring Policy & & Assurance Controls Dedicated Reviewing existing software platform portfolio against in place for newly established facilitating workflow appetite position.
com 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT industry best practice ERM principles, and embed these in the context of the Groups strategic objectives.
The risks into day-to-day operational decision making.
An additional identified during this process have been captured in a objective is to assist the Groups compliance with the system that is used to track, monitor and document updated Financial Reporting Council guidance on risk ownership and management.
Data from this system management, internal control and related financial has been aggregated and themed, reviewed under the and business reporting.
Governance structure outlined above and has been used as the basis for the Group Principal Risk disclosures on Building on the three lines of assurance model, the Group pages 36 to 39. has drawn on the COSO ERM Framework to set a rigorous baseline which has revised the Groups risk appetite.
This The next phase of the project will build on the work will facilitate effective risk management with appropriate completed to date to review the control and assurance controls and assurance measures.
measures in place to ensure that they are aligned in the most efficient manner with the Groups risk appetite.
Each of the Groups business units, as well as each Sector and Group function, has undertaken a review of their respective Principal Risks using the updated risk management framework.
This exercise has been performed How we manage risk The Board Define strategic objectives Agree Groups risk appetite Define delegation of authority Oversight of the corporate risk register Approve corporate framework Risk Committee Oversight Audit Committee Monitor performance and changes of key risks Monitor policies and controls against the Groups Monitor assurance and risk management facing the business and provide regular reports risk appetite systems of control to the Board Provide strategic management, policy and Drive improvement Oversight of key risks and ensure that they are procedure setting, and functional oversight appropriately managed Align results Agree key actions to manage risks Business Units Functions Vertical and Horizontal Internal Audit External Audit and Sectors Identify key risks against strategic objectives Design controls to mitigate risk Provide independent challenge and assurance Design and execute action plans to mitigate threats Set entity level controls Audit of key controls and enhance opportunities in the business Set direction and tone Audit of assurance providers Report on progress Design policies Oversight of entity level controls Implement Group policies Introduce best practice Report on progress Monitor and ensure compliance Provide management assurance Provide assurance oversight Monitor representation letters and self-assessment process Risk and Actions Policy and Control Monitoring and Assurance www.
com Cobham plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Principal Risks continued 1.
Deterioration in the macroeconomic environment 2.
F ailure to execute strategy for a return to 3.
Failure to comply with laws and regulations 4.
Failure to embed organisational design adversely impacting our markets organic growth, supported by effective value within an effective Governance Framework, creating M&A activity with appropriate skills and talented employees recruited retained Risk Risk Risk Risk The Groups revenue is derived from global defence security and commercial The Groups ability to generate profitable organic growth consistently is a Cobham operates in a highly regulated environment and is subject to the laws, Key to the execution of the Groups strategic plan is the effective markets.
The level and type of customer spending is dependent on a complex key driver of value creation.
Insightful, complementary and well executed regulations and restrictions of many jurisdictions, including those of the US, implementation and embedding of the organisation design OD mix of macroeconomic, fiscal and strategic defence and security imperatives.
M&A activity in line with the Groups strategic objectives will supplement the UK and other countries.
project within an enhanced governance framework.
Changes in government customer spending or other external factors could lead These include anti-bribery provisions, import and export controls: government Failure to deliver the OD project, resulting in an appropriately skilled workforce to programme contract terminations or delays, or changes in market growth.
Failure to define and execute the Groups growth strategy will lead to impaired contracting rules and health and safety.
and management team will see the Groups ability to deliver against its strategic business performance.
plan to return to growth impaired.
A lack of understanding of legal and regulatory restrictions in force in the jurisdictions that we operate in could lead to us being in contravention of a particular law or regulation.
Impact Impact Impact Impact Deterioration in demand affecting shorter cycle businesses or a fundamental Failure to grow leads to an impaired competitive position, reduced trading Sanctions for failure by the Group, its sales intermediaries, or others acting on This will lead to sub-optimal financial performance, loss of investor confidence shift in how customers procure products or services could have an adverse margins and a declining return on invested capital.
its behalf to comply with laws, regulations and restrictions could include fines, and a failure to deliver shareholder value.
effect on the Groups future results leading to: penalties, legal claims, suspension or debarment of the Group from future The Group will experience an impact on employee recruitment and retention, government contracts for a period of time as well as having an impact on the Missed growth targets potential reputational damage and a reduced ability to invest for future growth.
Such sanctions could have an impact on the Groups Reduced earnings financial position and future operations.
Failure to win new business, leading to adverse results against strategic plan Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation A review of near and long term market trends is conducted as part of the Carry out effective strategic planning maintain robust and dynamic strategic Cobham continues to drive a culture that ensures that safety, ethics and The OD project is on track to deliver the desired operating company construct Groups annual strategic planning process to ensure that actual and anticipated thinking processes to ensure the Group is exposed to growth markets through integrity are embodied in all that it does.
for the Group, with a key focus being to ensure that key talent is recruited impacts from macroeconomic environment risks are minimised and the business cycles.
Policies and procedures are included in the Groups corporate framework which A continued focus on and investment in programme management to ensure is regularly reviewed and audited, including procedures related to the use of The CFO led project, to enhance the Governance, Risk and Assurance Regular review of externally sourced market demand data, with the customer expectations are met, which underpins the Groups ability to grow.
sales and marketing representatives, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, gifts Framework in accordance with best practice enterprise risk management, is on re-forecasting and adjusting of internal planning in line with market demand.
and hospitality, whistleblowing and investigation of ethics and compliance course to deliver an appropriate yet flexible level of control across the business, Continued appropriate investment in future technologies with alignment to concerns, along with Cobhams Code of Business Conduct.
This will allow appropriate risk taking within the Groups stated appetite, drive Increased emphasis is being placed on identifying adjacent markets in which identified market growth areas.
improvements in performance through application of effective governance the Groups proven and transferable technologies can be applied.
Mandatory training is undertaken by all employees on a variety of and best practice principles The implementation of rigorous M&A disciplines both preand postcompliance related subjects including US government contracting, The Group is creating more balance in its portfolio towards commercial markets, transaction, aligned with the Groups strategic planning process, improves anti-bribery and corruption.
with the aim to grow through all economic cycles.
the ability to successfully execute and deliver value from transactions.
See the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability section on page 40 to 43 A culture of continuous improvement will enable Cobham to have market for information on health and safety actions.
leading operating performance, while reducing costs.
This will enable Cobham to grow market share and also remain competitive in the face of volume declines or price pressures and retain flexibility to adjust the cost base appropriately to changing market conditions.
Link to KPIs Link to KPIs Link to KPIs Link to KPIs Organic revenue growth Group PV investment Staff safety Voluntary staff turnover Underlying EPS growth Voluntary staff turnover Underlying EPS growth Return on invested capital Cash conversion Organic revenue growth Return on invested capital Cash conversion Return on invested capital Underlying EPS growth Underlying EPS growth Cash conversion Return on invested capital Risk status indicator Risk status indicator Risk status indicator Risk status indicator Global macroeconomic conditions remain uncertain.
The Group anticipates organic revenue growth from 2015.
The Aeroflex The regulatory landscape remains broadly unchanged.
The OD project has been implemented and the governance, risk and assurance acquisition was completed in the year, with integration in its early stages.
initiative commenced to support the execution of the Groups strategies.
Unchanged Increasing Risk Decreasing Risk Emerging New Risk Cobham plc www.
com 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 1.
Failure to execute strategy for a return to 3.
F ailure to comply with laws and regulations 4.
com Cobham plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Principal Risks continued 5.
Contract risk and effective project and 6.
F ailure to deliver shareholder value from 7.
Failure to successfully execute continuous programme execution the Aeroflex acquisition improvement CI programmes, including the implementation of the IT enterprise resource planning ERP system, across the portfolio Risk Risk Risk Risk The Group designs, develops and delivers products and services that are often Failure to deliver the planned synergies and growth from the Aeroflex The Groups business could be impacted by natural disasters or fire events Failure to deliver sustainable growth and efficient, reliable and sustainable customised, utilising complex technologies, under fixed price contracts that are acquisition will have a detrimental impact on the Groups financial performance.
affecting its operational locations or suppliers, by other significant events in the improvements in operational performance.
sometimes long term in nature.
This gives rise to the risks of failure to execute supply chain or by IT systems failures including from cyber attack, rendering contracts profitably, the supply of defective or delayed product, the occurrence critical systems or manufacturing locations unable to function.
Linked to this is the effective deployment of an enterprise resource planning of other contractually related liabilities, or damages to reputation and system across the Group, which underpins the Groups CI initiatives.
Impact Impact Impact Impact Failure by Cobham to execute or deliver a project or programme gives rise to The Aeroflex transaction is important to the achievement of the Groups Unscheduled interruption to business activities would result in reduced profits, Project, programme, production and service delivery will be adversely affected the risk of increased programme costs, contract penalties, litigation and other strategic plan.
loss of customer satisfaction, potential cost outlays, and reputational impact.
increasing costs and reducing customer satisfaction.
financial liabilities, reduced future profitability and reputational risk.
Failure to deliver the business case will lead to poor financial results and will Poor operational performance could also lead to customers withholding new adversely impact the Groups reputation.
and existing business from the Group.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Through the new business win process, a thorough review of the business A comprehensive due diligence process was undertaken throughout the The Group maintains major incident IT failure business continuity plans.
CI benefits are built into budgets with progress monitored at quarterly business case and terms and conditions and subsequent variations, prior to signing, pre-acquisition process.
Employees are trained in relevant procedures, as appropriate.
review meetings across the Group.
ensures contract provisions and risks are fairly allocated between parties, while still customer focused.
Post-acquisition, detailed assessments have been undertaken against the IT security and capability are continually monitored and strengthened Sustainability training has been delivered to business management teams.
due diligence findings and comprehensive integration plans established.
Life cycle management LCM and programme management procedures are Assessment and accreditation processes have been developed to assess sites intended to ensure that the Groups key contract and programme management Aeroflex performance is monitored continuously against the due diligence The Group works closely with insurers and other third party experts to with respect to CI and to identify areas for improvement.
policies and procedures are applied consistently and appropriately across all plan with regular oversight from the Groups M&A Committee.
ensure operating infrastructure and processes include robust risk areas of the business.
These procedures also provide increased focus on improvement activities.
Robust management of plans to ensure site readiness and planning of improvements to its LCM and programme management capabilities.
Retention plans are in place for key individuals and the integration programme implementation resources into site budgets for ERP implementation.
is subject to the comprehensive LCM review process.
See the CR&S section on pages 40 to 43 for further details on mitigating There is monthly reporting of progress against agreed LCM improvement actions against this risk Detailed application test planning and ERP execution, including stress and load actions to the Group Executive, and semi-annually to the Audit Committee.
tests, application performance, network and security tests.
Link to KPIs Link to KPIs Link to KPIs Link to KPIs Organic revenue growth Voluntary staff turnover Staff safety Organic revenue growth Underlying EPS growth Underlying EPS growth Organic revenue growth Underlying EPS growth Cash conversion Cash conversion Underlying EPS growth Cash conversion Return on invested capital Return on invested capital Return on invested capital Risk status indicator Risk status indicator Risk status indicator Risk status indicator The company is currently in a significant phase of engineering and development The Aeroflex acquisition was completed in the year, with the multi-year IT security threats continue to escalate.
The Group has increased exposure CI professionals have been embedded in the Business Unit management teams.
activity on various new programmes and platforms.
integration programme in its early stages.
to site IT risks through adding Aeroflex sites.
The ERP roll-out has already been completed at one site.
com 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 5.
Failure to deliver shareholder value from 7.
com Cobham plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
