Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information PRINCIPAL RISKS IDENTIFYING AND MANAGING RISK The Board continues to take a proactive approach to recognising and mitigating risk with the aim of protecting its employees and consumers and safeguarding the interests of the Company and its shareholders in the constantly changing environment in which it operates.
As set out in the Corporate Governance section on pages 48 to 76, The Group faces a number of operational risks on an ongoing the Group has policies and procedures in place to ensure that risks are basis such as litigation and financial including liquidity and credit properly identified, evaluated and managed at the appropriate level risk and some wider risks, for example, environmental and within the business.
Additionally, there are risks such as those relating to the eurozone economy, the international corporate tax environment, The identification of risks and opportunities, the development of action pensions, and acquisitions and investments which vary in importance plans to manage the risks and maximise the opportunities, and the depending on changing conditions.
All risks disclosed in previous continual monitoring of progress against agreed key performance years can be found in the Annual Reports available on our website indicators KPIs are integral parts of the business process, and core at www.
We recognise that these risks remain activities throughout the Group.
important to the business and they are kept under review.
However, The table on pages 38 and 39 sets out the principal risks and we have focused the disclosures on pages 38 and 39 on those risks that uncertainties facing the business at the date of this Report.
These have are currently considered to be more significant to the Group.
been subject to robust assessment and review.
They do not comprise all of the risks that the Group may face and are not listed in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management or deemed to be less material at the date of this Report may also have an adverse effect on the Group.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 37 PRINCIPAL RISKS HEALTH AND SAFETY RISK DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATION HEALTH AND SAFETY Health and safety is our number one operational All management meetings throughout the Group feature priority.
We are focused on protecting peoples ahealth and safety update as their first agenda item.
wellbeing, as well as avoiding serious business Health and safety improvement KPIs are included in interruption and potential damage to our reputation.
theannual bonus plans for each of the business Compass feeds millions of consumers and employs management teams.
thousands of people around the world every day.
Therefore, setting the highest standards for food The Group has policies, procedures and standards in hygiene and safety is paramount.
placeto ensure compliance with legal obligations and industry standards.
The safety and quality of our global supply chain are assured through compliance against a robust set of standards which are regularly reviewed, audited and upgraded as necessary toimprove supply chain visibility and product integrity.
CLIENTS AND CONSUMERS RISK DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATION Our business relies on securing and retaining a diverse We have strategies which strengthen our long term CLIENT AND range of clients.
relationships with our clients and consumers based on CONSUMER SALES quality, value and innovation.
AND RETENTION Our business model is structured so that we are not reliant on one particular sector, geography or group of clients.
BIDDING Each year, the Group could bid for a large number A rigorous tender review process is in place, which includes ofopportunities.
a critical assessment of contracts to identify potential risks including social and ethical risks and rewards, prior to approval at an appropriate level in the organisation.
SERVICE DELIVERY The Groups operating companies contract with a large Processes are in place to ensure that the services delivered number of clients.
Failure to comply with the terms of to clients are of an appropriate standard and comply with the AND CONTRACTUAL these contracts, including proper delivery of services, required contract terms and conditions.
COMPLIANCE could lead to loss of business.
We operate in a competitive marketplace.
The level We aim to minimise this by continuing to promote our COMPETITION ofconcentration and outsource penetration varies by differentiated propositions and focusing on our points of country and by sector.
Some markets are relatively strength, such as flexibility in our cost base, quality and concentrated with two or three key players.
Others are value of service and innovation.
highly fragmented and offer significant opportunities for consolidation and penetration of the self-operated market.
Aggressive pricing from our competitors could cause a reduction in our revenues and margins.
PEOPLE RISK DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATION RECRUITMENT Failure to attract and recruit people with the right The Group aims to mitigate this risk by efficient, time critical skillsat all levels could limit the success of the Group.
resource management, mobilisation of existing, experienced The Group faces resourcing challenges in some of its employees within the organisation and through offering businesses due to a lack of industry experience amongst training and development programmes.
candidates and appropriately qualified people, and the seasonal nature of some of our business.
RETENTION AND Retaining and motivating the best people with the right The Group has established training, development, skills, at all levels of the organisation, is key to the long performance management and reward programmes to retain, MOTIVATION term success of the Group.
develop and motivate our best people.
The Group has a well established employee engagement initiative, Your Voice, which helps us to monitor, understand and respond to our employees needs.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 38 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL ENVIRONMENT RISK DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATION Some sectors of our business could be susceptible With the variable and flexible nature of our cost base, ECONOMY toadverse changes in economic conditions and it is generally possible to contain the impact of these employment levels.
COST INFLATION Our objective is always to deliver the right level of As part of our MAP framework, we seek to manage inflation service in the most efficient way.
An increase in the through continuing to drive greater efficiencies through menu cost of labour or food could constitute a risk to our management, supplier rationalisation, labour scheduling and ability to do this.
Cost indexation in our contracts also gives us the contractual right to review pricing with our clients.
We are a global business operating in countries and The Group remains vigilant to future changes presented by POLITICAL STABILITY regions with diverse economic and political conditions.
emerging markets or fledgling administrations and we try Our operations and earnings may be adversely affected toanticipate and contribute to important changes in by political or economic instability.
COMPLIANCE AND FRAUD RISK DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATION Ineffective compliance management with laws and The Groups zero tolerance based Codes of Business COMPLIANCE AND FRAUD regulations, or evidence of fraud, could have an Conduct and Ethics govern all aspects of our relationships adverse effect on the Groups reputation and could with our stakeholders.
All alleged breaches of the Codes, result in anadverse impact on the Groups performance including any allegations of fraud, are investigated.
if significant financial penalties are levied or a criminal The Groups procedures include regular operating reviews, action is brought against the Company or its directors.
underpinned by a continual focus on ensuring the effectiveness of internal controls.
Regulation and compliance risk is also considered as part ofour annual business planning process.
INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY RISK DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATION The digital world creates many risks for a global We seek to assess and manage the maturity of our enterprise INFORMATION SYSTEMS business including technology failures, loss of risk and security infrastructure and our ability to effectively AND TECHNOLOGY confidential data and damage to brand reputation.
defend against current and future cyber risks by using analysis tools and experienced professionals to evaluate and mitigate potential impacts.
The Group relies on a variety of IT systems in order to manage and deliver services and communicate with our clients, consumers, suppliers and employees.
We are focused on the need to maximise the effectiveness ofour information systems and technology as a business enabler and to reduce both cost and exposure as a result.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 39
