AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Financial reporting During the year the Audit Committee reviewed reports from the Finance Director and the external auditors on matters of significance in relation to the financial statements, including key estimates and judgements made in preparing the statements.
An additional meeting of the Audit Committee was set up to discuss an early draft of the content of the 2014 Report & Accounts covering areas of significance in each of the reports in light of the new reporting regulations.
They also reviewed the final content of the 2014 Report & Accounts and the 2013 Interim Report, and as noted in the covering letter to this report to Shareholders, they also undertook enhanced procedures in relation to whether the financial statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Significant issues considered during the year included: fair values on the acquisition during the year of Wayland Farms and the Wold Farm transaction valuations were compiled based on reports by external advisers and consultants.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the valuations adopted were reasonable: a review of the contingent consideration on the Kingston Foods acquisition in the prior year contingent targets were highly unlikely to be met and, in agreement with the previous vendors of the business who waived their rights to any further consideration, the Audit Committee was satisfied that it was appropriate that the balance of the consideration was released and that it be treated as an exceptional item: the carrying value of goodwill and whether there has been any impairment.
This included reviewing the position in relation to the Groups sandwich business following the impairment of goodwill made in 2012 following a review of forecast earnings and cash flow projections the Committee was satisfied that no further impairment had occurred: assessing whether there was sufficient banking headroom to support a going concern concept an amendment and extension of banking facilities was completed before the year end, increasing the facilities.
Based on forecast earnings and cash flow projections the Committee was satisfied that the going concern concept can be supported: the review of accruals and provisions, including customer overriders, in respect of liabilities not settled at the year end date these were discussed with the various management teams.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that any provisions not required were released and that the accrual for liabilities not provided appeared to have been reasonably calculated: the valuation of the closed defined benefit pension scheme a triennial valuation was carried out by external advisers and the outcome was reflected in the financial statements.
The Audit Committee reviewed the reasonableness of the key assumptions, including obtaining input from the external auditors: and the valuation process of biological assets following the acquisition of pig herds during the year biological assets were valued in line with the requirements of IAS 41 using adjusted market data inputs.
The net IAS 41 valuation movement on the biological assets was highlighted separately on the face of the income statement.
The Audit Committee reviewed a paper from the Finance Director on the basis of calculation and was satisfied that the standard had been fairly applied and the required disclosures made in the financial statements.
The Audit Committee, after discussions with the external auditors, accepted that these issues noted above had been fairly treated in the financial statements.
The Committee also reported to the Board that it was satisfied that the financial statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Risk management and internal control The Audit Committee is responsible for keeping under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems.
The Chair of the Audit Committee reports to the Board, following each Audit Committee meeting, on issues relating to internal controls and risk management.
The Group has a whistle blowing policy in place, including an independent help line, which includes arrangements by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting and other matters.
The policy, together with any whistle blowing incidents, is reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee.
Key ongoing processes include: a system to identify, evaluate and manage business risk: maintaining a strong control environment: formulating, reviewing policies and procedures in relation to whistle blowing and compliance with the Bribery Act: an information and communication process: and a monitoring system and a regular review of effectiveness by the Audit Committee.
