T N E M S S E S S A K S I R R I S K M I T I G A T I N O O N I T A C I F I T N E D I R K I S S I K R P R I O R RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS As a leading UK food producer, the Group faces a variety of risks and uncertainties.
Operating in a highly competitive industry, it is critical that the Group identifies, assesses and prioritises its risks.
This, along with the development of appropriate mitigating actions, enables the Group to achieve its strategic objectives and protect its reputation.
The Group has a formal risk management process in place, which is embedded within the business to support the identification and effective management of risks across the Group.
It is regularly reviewed and updated for changes within the Group, industry and wider economy.
Risk management model BOARD Responsible for the Groups system of risk management and internal control and for setting the Groups overall risk appetite BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE Reviews the systems of internal control AUDIT that are in place and provides assurance to the Board that COMMITTEE the processes of risk management and internal control are operating e ectively GROUP RISK COMMITTEE GROUP RISK COMMITTEE Provides oversight and advice to OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT the Audit Committee and Board in relation to current and future risk exposures and future risk strategies OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT Operate site level risk management processes to ensure that risks remain adequately identi ed, analysed and controlled Risk management framework Risk monitoring process The Board is responsible for the identification and effective The Board formally reviews the Group risk register on an annual management of risks across the Group and relies on the Group Risk basis.
The Group Risk Committee is responsible for highlighting to the Committee to oversee the Groups risk management processes.
Board and to the Audit Committee any key changes to the Groups The Internal Audit function provides independent assurance to risk register during the intervening periods.
For 201314 the risks management and the Audit Committee keeps under review the facing the Group are broadly consistent with the previous year, with effectiveness of mechanisms put in place to mitigate risks.
This process no significant changes in risk profiles.
However, as reported at the half specifically recognises the close relationship between Internal Audit year, following the investment in pig breeding and rearing activities the and risk management.
The Audit Committee obtains assurance that Group now faces risks associated with this activity.
the processes of risk management and internal control are adequate.
Further details are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on Internal audit plan page 37.
The internal audit plan is principally driven by the Groups risk management framework.
During the year Internal Audit reviews Group risk register the auditable elements of these risks and informs operational A Group risk register is in place which is generated from site risk management and the Audit Committee of any required registers owned by operational management who individually set corrective actions.
out the risks, likelihood of occurrence, consequences of impact and mitigating actions for their respective area of responsibility.
Identified The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are summarised risks which have a significant impact on the Group as a whole are on the following pages.
However, this is not intended to be an escalated to the Group risk register and are captured according to exhaustive analysis of all risks currently facing the Group.
standard internal classifications strategic, commercial, financial and operational risks.
12 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014 I T I S A T G I O N N I R O T I N O M K S I R Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements Risk area Description of risk How we manage it Strategic risks Consumer demand Deterioration in the economy may adversely affect the The business offers a range of products across activity levels of consumers and the Groups immediate premium, standard and value tiers which it is able to customers, leading to a fall in demand for the Groups flex in response to customer and market demands.
Pork products and ultimately lower profitability and cash flow.
remains an extremely competitively priced and sought-after product.
Competitor activity The Group trades in highly competitive markets which The Group manages the risk of operating in a tend to operate without long-term contracts.
Product competitive sector by developing and maintaining strong innovation and changing consumer trends provide a customer relationships.
This process is supported by constant challenge to the future success of the Group delivering high levels of service and quality, and by the and its ability to compete effectively.
continued focus on product development and technical innovation.
Commercial risks Reliance on key A significant proportion of the Groups revenues are The Groups commercial teams continually look for customers generated from a small number of major grocery retail opportunities to expand the customer base across customers.
Loss of all or part of the Groups business all product categories and work closely with key with one or more of these customers would adversely customers to ensure service, quality and new product impact on the Groups financial performance.
developments are of the highest standard.
Pricing and availability The major exposure the Group has to pricing and The Group has a trusted, long-standing farming supply of raw materials availability of raw materials is in relation to pig meat.
An base, and the acquisition of Wayland Farms and the increase in raw material input costs, pig feed prices or a recent formation of Wold Farms have also helped to lack of availability of pig meat would adversely impact on mitigate the risks associated with pig price fluctuations the Groups profitability.
In addition the Group mitigates the risk of raw material price inflation through ongoing pricing discussions with its customers and suppliers.
Financial risks Interest rate, currency, The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on borrowings Interest rate and foreign currency risks are managed liquidity and credit risks and foreign currency risk on purchases particularly using effective hedging policies, which are managed of charcuterie products from the European Union.
In by the Groups Treasury function.
Each site has access addition the Group needs access to funding for current to the Groups overdraft facility and bank balances are business and future growth.
monitored on a daily basis by Group Finance.
All term debt is arranged centrally and appropriate headroom is maintained.
Bank facilities were renewed prior to the year end through to July 2018. Business acquisitions Businesses may be acquired based on inaccurate Rigorous due diligence reviews are carried out in information, unachievable forecasts or without advance of any new business acquisition, using internal appropriate consideration being given to the terms and specialised external resource where required.
Report & Accounts 2014 Cranswick plc 13 RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Risk area Description of risk How we manage it Operational risks Food scares As a food producer, the Group is subject to the risks of The risk of such events is mitigated by ensuring that all product and or raw material contamination and potential raw materials are traceable to original source and that health related industry wide food scares and issues.
Such the manufacturing, storage and distribution systems of incidents may lead to product recall costs, reputational both Group sites and suppliers are continually monitored damage and regulatory penalties.
by experienced and well trained site based and Group technical teams.
Business continuity The Group faces the risk of incidents such as major fire, Detailed business continuity plans are in place across the flood or loss of key utilities, which may result in significant Groups manufacturing sites and appropriate insurance and prolonged disruption to its operating facilities arrangements are deployed to mitigate any financial loss.
resulting in loss of sales and reduced profitability.
Potential business disruption is minimised through multi-site operations across the Groups key product lines.
Recruitment and The success of the Group is dependent on attracting and The Group mitigates the risk associated with the loss retention of key staff retaining high quality senior management and staff.
of key staff through robust succession planning, strong recruitment processes, competitive remuneration packages and ongoing training and development plans.
Food safety and health A breach of food safety or health and safety standards, The Group conforms to all relevant food safety and and safety legislation or ethical standards may lead to reputational health and safety regulations and adopts industry best damage and regulatory penalties including restrictions on practice across its production sites and within its supply operations, damages or fines.
All sites are subject to frequent audits by internal teams, customers and regulatory authorities to ensure standards are being adhered to.
Pig herd infection and An infection or disease outbreak may result in the loss of The Group mitigates against this risk with farming disease livestock, or the inability to move animals freely, impacting facilities which have a broad geographical spread to avoid on the supply of raw materials into the Groups abattoirs.
reliance on a single production area.
In addition, robust vaccination and herd operating procedures mitigate the risk of common diseases and infections.
14 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements Report & Accounts 2014 Cranswick plc 15
