Strategic Report Our Risks Protecting value The effective management of our risks and opportunities helps to achieve our strategicobjectives, protects our people, our local communities and our reputation, and demonstrates good corporate governance.
It is essential for creating and protecting value for our shareholders and customers in line with our business model.
Risk Management Framework Board of Directors Audit Committee Risk Management Committee Market sectors Functions Manufacturing sites Sales offices Business continuity The Board of Directors determines our overall risk appetite.
It Market sectors and functions identify and own the risksarising alsooversees the Groups risk management and internal control from their day to day operations via sector boards andsteering systems, defines risks and monitors risk exposures and ensures groups.
They allocate owners to monitor and manage each risk, that the nature and extent of the risks we take align with our strategic undertake a full review of risks, mitigating controls and theadequacy objectives, see page 50. of these controls, at least half yearly, identify actions toimprove control, and monitor the progress of these actions.
The Audit Committee supports the Board in risk mitigation by approving and directing Internal Audits plans to perform assurance Manufacturing and selling locations manage the risks involved audits over controls in key risk areas, and in reviewing the findings.
intheir day to day operations.
They allocate owners to monitor Italso monitors the effectiveness of risk management and internal andmanage each risk, and undertake a full review of risks, at least control systems and reviews the reliance placed by management annually, during which they assess the mitigating controls in place onmitigating controls, including internal and external assurance, andany necessary actions to improve controls.
Internal Audit supports the Audit Committee by providing The Risk Management Committee of the Executive considers assuranceover the effectiveness of the mitigating controls identified external and emerging risks and their relevance to the Group, for key risks.
It reports to the Audit Committee quarterly and assesses bottom-up risk registers to identify Group wide impacts reportson risk to the Board twice yearly.
The Vice President Risk and trends and to compare them with key risks, and evaluates andControlattends the Risk Management Committee, and is whether any risks have escalated and require further attention.
Its responsiblefor coordinating Internal Audits reports and updates quarterly meetings feature a presentation by the Executive member tothe Audit Committee andBoard.
responsible for ensuring best practice and continuous progress for each key risk.
This covers the risk itself, the mitigating controls, and continuous improvement actions.
28 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Internal Audit assurance Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Our Risk Management Framework The table on page 30 shows the key risks identified in 2014 and any We implement a structured risk management framework throughout changes in risk ranking from 2013.
Our Board and management the Group.
This includes a standard set of risk categories, generic consider that these pose the greatest threats to our business riskdescriptions and a scoring methodology, together with a process andtheyscore highest on our pre-mitigation risk table.
They fall into to analyse and manage risk.
All our locations use this framework categories that relate closely to our business model or sustainability toidentify their specific risks.
We rank risks by combining their Material Areas.
We do, of course, face other risks and uncertainties, economic, operational or environmental impact and the likelihood but thesehave been assessed as lower risk, and so are not included thatthey may occur.
We do this both before and after we identify here, or are beyond the direct control of the Group.
All risks current thecontrols we have in place to mitigate each risk.
Those risks and emerging are reviewed regularly by the Board and the Risk thatpose the greatest threat to our Business and score the highest, Management Committee: if their possible impact or likelihood pre-mitigation, are identified as key risks.
increases, they willbereclassified as a key risk.
All our people are responsible for managing risk.
By using a common Our risk management programme can only provide reasonable, framework, we are able to view risk from both a top-down and notabsolute, assurance that key risks are managed to an bottom-up perspective and so ensure it is considered and managed acceptablelevel.
at every level of our Business.
How our Risk Management Process Evolved in 2014 Our safety, health, environmental and quality SHEQ risks are We improved the alignment of our sustainability Material Areas reviewed and considered by a dedicated Executive level committee.
withourrisks This meets quarterly to consider the results of assurance audits We carried out risk assurance reviews of the mitigating overSHEQ controls and to monitor defined and agreed key controlsforcertain key risks, based on our 2013 integrated performance indicators.
assurance mapping exercise Our Key Risks We restructured our risk registers in line with our new Risks affect every area of our Business.
Their nature and potential globalorganisation impact changes constantly but regular reviews enable us to identify risks that could derail our strategy and to set up controls to mitigate There were detailed presentations on chemical regulatory their effects.
andproduct liability risks by the Executive risk owners, in line withourpractice of the Board reviewing two key risks each year.
We categorise our risks into the following areas: Theseincluded summaries of the risks themselves, emerging Strategic: Risks that could prevent us from achieving our issues, controls and scoring.
The Board was able to question strategicobjectives.
therisk owners and gain a deeper understanding of the risks andthe controls that operate to mitigate them Operational and regulatory: Risks which, if not successfully managed, wouldthreaten our viability.
These relate to our ability tooperate a sustainable, safe and legal business.
Business systems: Risks relating to IT systems and informationsecurity.
Financial: Risks relating to the funding and fiscal security of theGroup.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 Strategic Report Our Risks continued Key risk Potential impact on our business How we respond What we have done in 2014 Failure to follow our customers as they Our local sales teams sell directly to customers and Moved to a global organisation Revenue generation move into emerging markets, or to maintain excellent relationships at all levels in their structure.
We have expanded continue to grow in established markets organisation.
They speak our customers language, capacity in Asia and Latin in established and will adversely impact delivery against our with market and industry training and backgrounds.
America to shorten our emerging markets strategic objective of delivering consistent We have established research and development customers supply chain.
top and bottom line growth.
centres, customer centres and manufacturing Weopened up a new sales closer to our customers.
officein Houston and created a Delivering consistent top 1 dedicated EEMEA commercial andbottomlinegrowth team separate from Western Europe.
We expanded our R&D groups in China, Singapore, Brazil, France and the UK.
The Group has grown through The new Executive position of President of Corporate We appointed a President Identification and acquisitions and continues to pursue Development has a remit to identify new strategic of Corporate Development, them to meet its strategic objectives.
acquisition opportunities and to work closely with anExecutive position, from integration of Afailure to identify new business areas our market sector Presidents.
Each business April 2014 to identify strategic acquisition targets or extend our portfolio could impact our areahas a strategic plan which includes a review growth opportunities.
Our success in realising ofdemand and of potential new opportunities, Acquisition opportunities the benefits of acquisitions depends which are regularly monitored and challenged.
havebeen identified with 1 Delivering consistent top onfocused due diligence before the full engagement of the andbottomlinegrowth Our Technology Investment Group is integrated acquisition, the integration of the market sectors.
within our market sectors to identify new acquired businesses, and their technology acquisition opportunities.
Responsibility for the performance in relation to expectations.
integration of our recent acquisitions Sipo, JD Horizons and AM Coatings has been assigned to senior managers.
Innovation plays a critical role across We have a Chief Technology Officer at Board level.
Established a new process Product and ouroperations: it differentiates us from We have identified seven key technology platforms innovation team from January the competition, protects sales and which we believe will drive innovation.
2014 to consider, differentiated technologyinnovation improves our margins.
Failure to drive class leading technologies to We have outstanding technical resources in place, innovation will impact ongrowth.
give our products a technical who focus on internal innovation projects.
We Increasing the proportion ofNew 2 edge.
Globalised the partner with customers, universities and developers andProtected Product sales technology group.
of emerging technologies and invest in external acquisitions to remain at the cutting edge.
Two external acquisitions brought new technology andexpertise to the Group.
Expansion into new markets and We have a dedicated professional Intellectual Differentiation and protection Protect new technologies has increased our risk Property IP team who participate in the technical of many of our new products, offailure to protect our intellectual and business planning and strategy meetings including our range intellectualproperty property, which could undermine toidentify new products and technologies which ofexcipients for the ourcompetitive advantage.
They monitor our IP and pharmaceutical industry, Increasing the proportion ofNew 2 challenge infringements where necessary.
seepage 16. andProtected Product sales 30 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Risk decrease Risk increase No change Link to Strategic Objectives 1 2 3 p20 Key risk Potential impact on our business How we respond What we have done in 2014 The vision and experience of our Our framework of development and reward The Executive has focused Employee recruitment, knowledgeable and specialist programmes, strong culture and world class ondeveloping a people employees is critical to maintaining learning and development opportunities support strategy for each of our market retention and motivation theGroup's success.
A lack of the retention and career development of the high sectors which fully supports appropriately skilled people could quality teams we need.
All Croda regions offer and aligns with the Business 3 Investing in a adversely impact our ability to graduate development programmes, involving strategy and ensures that our sustainable future performinline with expectations.
stretching and high profile assignments, and our current high retention rates structured development programmes, such as the continue.
Importantly, delivery Croda 2020 network and Leadership Development of the strategy will ensure that Groups, nurture internal talent.
Our global appraisal the pipeline of talent will system, Aspire, supports the annual personal continue to be filled.
We rely on key employees whose vision On an annual basis our talent review process Our new Group HR Director Succession planning and knowledge is critical tomaintaining considers succession plans for critical roles appointed in April 2014 has our success.
If these individuals were to throughout the organisation.
Output and actions provided focus and leadership for senior positions leave with no succession plan in place, arising from these reviews are monitored bythe to a renewed andmore rigorous itwould takesome time to replace them.
Executive and the Board to ensure that succession succession planning process.
Investing in a 3 planning continues to be a focal point.
Areas of higher risk have sustainable future beenidentified and are beingaddressed.
We sell into a number of highly regulated Our Head of Global Quality Assurance leads our The Board reviewed this risk Product liability claims markets.
Non compliance withquality quality programme.
Many of our sitesare EFfCI with a presentation from the regulations could expose usto liability GMP-certified and several have theEXCiPACT Executive risk owner.
We and reputational damage especially quality standard.
These are demanding quality communicated a new Group Investing in a 3 inthe light of our commitment standards valued by our customers.
We work Quality policy andstarted sustainable future tosustainability.
proactively with relevant trade associations working on a supporting toshape future regulation, see page 36. manual.
Quality reporting isnow incorporated into thequarterly Group SHEQmeetings.
We rely on the continued operation We have comprehensive global Safety, Health The Croda Hazard Study Major safety incident ofour manufacturing sites around the andEnvironment SHE policies, procedures Leaders Academy marked its world.
Certain sites are particularly andguidelines which are defined in the Group first full year since its diploma critical to the Group due to their size SHEmanual.
Our network of SHE specialists was certified by the University Major environmental orwhat they produce.
andprocess safety engineers at each site ensure of Derby.
compliance on a dayto day basis, and all site incident A major event causing loss of A new Group SHE manager processes undergo aProcess Risk Review at production, or violating safety, health was appointed to develop fiveyearly intervals.
A rotational SHE assurance orenvironmental regulations could limit andleadour specialist Group programme isundertaken by our specialist audit our operations and expose the Group SHEaudit team.
Investing in a 3 team to assess compliance with the Group SHE toliability, cost and reputational damage, sustainable future manual with a comprehensive issue follow up We continue to develop our especially in the light of our commitment process.
External audits assess compliance with balanced score card of leading to sustainability and customer service.
our OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 certifications.
lagging process safety KPIs, which are subject to formal The SHEQ steering Committee meets quarterly quarterly review by the SHEQ tomonitor and review progress against safety Steering Committee, and can andenvironmental KPIs and targets.
provide an early warning We have business continuity plans in place for system for any problems.
eachsite and a Group crisis management plan which is tested at least annually.
We go beyond the basic regulatory requirements setting stretching safety, health and environmental targets, see page 34.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31 Strategic Report Risk decrease Our Risks continued Risk increase No change Link to Strategic Objectives 1 2 3 p20 Key risk Potential impact on our business How we respond What we have done in 2014 An interruption in the supply of key We have professional purchasing teams based Some critical raw material Global raw material rawmaterials would significantly affect inour regions.
They monitor supply to identify supplies secured to 2016 ouroperations and financial position.
We look to develop andbeyond.
shortage Such adisruption could arise from goodrelationships with our suppliers and to agree Our significant investment new, morerigorous legislation or from long term contracts.
To protect supply, we aim atAtlas Point will enable us to 3 Investment in a sustainable future marketshortages.
Where this is produce our own sustainable notpossible, we build up our own inventories.
non-ionic surfactants by 2017 andreduce our reliance on petrochemical based ethylene oxide as a raw material in duecourse.
As a global chemical producer, we We have a global team of technical and regulatory The Board reviewed this Chemical regulatory operate in highly regulated markets, specialists who have in depth knowledge of the riskwith a presentation from which are subject to regular change.
regional chemical regulatory frameworks within the Executive risk owner, compliance Violation, or incomplete knowledge, of which we operate.
They are integral in our new seecasestudy on page 51. the appropriate regulations could limit product development processes and can call Werestructured the regulatory Investment in a sustainable future 3 the markets into which we can sell, or onthe support of local consultants where required team to support the market expose the Group to fines or penalties.
The use of the EHS module sectors and to build in depth inSAP ensures that changes in regulatory knowledge of both market requirements are also applied to existing products.
We are subject to UK legislation and the We have training and education programmes A review of agents and Bribery Act breach Bribery Act is far reaching in terms of whichare rolled out globally and which all relevant distributors contracts was global scope.
employees are required to complete.
Letters were sent byusor ouragents training is required periodically.
to key suppliers to confirm our anddistributors terms of business.
Completion of gift registers is a requirement for gifts given and received.
Following our acquisition of Sipo we rolled out a Chinese language version of the online training.
We also introduced aGroup wide third party hosted whistleblowing service.
As we expand our use of mobile Our information security manager monitors our IT We worked with the Security of business technology and move into emerging services and network, and oversees PC protection, Government CPNI on markets, which are potentially subject in line with our established policies and processes.
security and there was a informationandassets tohigher risk, there is a greater chance Our Internal Audit function reviews these processes presentation to the Board oflosing electronically stored annually.
Regular penetration testing is undertaken.
We go further and identify that corporate We continued to make good knowledge is a valuable asset whether held progress towards obtaining electronically or not.
our ISO 27001 certification Information Security Management.
We conducted penetration testing and followed up onactions.
We established a new Corporate Knowledge competency in ourappraisal framework.
We rely heavily on IT systems for We run our key systems with full parallel Failover testing carried out IT application or effectiveand efficient operations and processingwith regular failover testing.
Ourdisaster withno impact on operations.
A lengthy recovery plan is tested regularly.
IT internal audit system infrastructure systems failure would impact our reviews and reports totheAudit Committee on the failure operations and, ultimately, our operation of controlsannually.
The Group has an open defined benefit The pension fund investment strategy, developed Comprehensive pension risk Ineffective pension scheme which constitutes a by theInvestment sub committee of the Trustee review undertaken in 2014. higher risk than a defined contribution Board, is prudent and delivered with the support of management The Board reviewed the scheme.
A change in market conditions professional advisors.
Trained pension fund Trustee pension investment risk ofpensionfund could increase future funding Directors take professional advice and monitor withapresentation from requirements and may adversely andreview arrangements quarterly.
maintains close dialogue with the Trustee Board.
32 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Croda has proved to be a first mover Our Responsibility and early adopter of solutions to Leading the way to Sustainable Palm Oil source and deliver physical certified sustainable palm oil products.
Engage Through commitment and Palm oil PO is used in many everyday products, from soap to engagement with suppliers and cooking oil and around 70% of the worlds cosmetics contain palm derived ingredients.
With many consumers concerned about the clients, in 2014 Croda has played deforestation to grow palm, our customers are increasingly looking akey role in influencing others in forsustainably sourced PO ingredients.
Create Darrel Webber We have been members of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Secretary General RSPO since 2006.
In 2010 we became one of the first chemical RSPO ingredient manufacturers to supply PO and palm kernel oil PKO volume equivalent calculations for our derivatives.
This enabled Croda has made an important ourcustomers to declare that they are supporting sustainable POthrough a Book & Claim certificate process, working with our contribution to our initiative suppliers to further develop physical certified sustainable PO CSPO.
Make We now have seven manufacturing sites certified to the RSPO Mass Eric Bollens Balance process, which enables certified and conventional PO to be Corporate Raw Material PurchasingDirector mixed, but with the certified oil volume being traced throughout the LOral supply chain.
These sites handle more than 80% of our total volume ofpalm derivatives: an important step in developing a certified physical supply chain.
Sell Our leading role in driving the change to sustainable PO has been recognised by our customers and RSPO.
Our significance reflects thefact that we produce the widest range of personal care ingredients globally and touch the majority of cosmetic formulations.
We supply sustainable PO ingredients to more than 300 customers around the world.
Many ofour businesses offer these ingredients, including Coatings & Polymers, Health Care, Home Care, Lubricants, Personal Care and Polymer Additives.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33
