Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Governance The Board is responsible for setting the risk appetite of the Group.
In so doing, it recognises that in seeking to execute on its strategy and objectives, events will arise that can adversely affect the Group.
However, the Board also seeks to ensure that the potential impact of such events on the business are understood and, where possible, appropriate and proportionate measures are adopted that seek to avoid or mitigate the impact of those events.
The systems and processes established by the Board are therefore designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the review of practices and procedures to the Audit Committee.
The Companys senior management, assisted by external advisers, are responsible for undertaking periodic reviews of the suitability of current systems on which they report to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee considers the findings from such reviews to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of the processes implemented by senior management.
This includes discussions with senior management of the Group and consideration of reports that have been submitted.
These findings are in turn considered by the full Board.
At the management level, there is an ongoing process to identify and evaluate risks which might adversely affect the Group and impact the achievement of its objectives.
These include matters directly under the inuence and control of the Group, such as strategic, operational and financial issues, as well as broader risks which require ongoing assessment and for which the Group may need to adapt, such as compliance with laws and regulations, macroeconomic and political risks.
Management conducts regular meetings and engages with external consultants where, in its opinion, it is appropriate to do so.
The assessment of prioritised risks is refreshed on a regular basis to reect changes to the business and any observations or proposals arising from events since the last review.
A schedule of the prioritised risks is developed and reviewed by management each quarter to ensure that possible mitigation measures are considered and plans for action agreed.
Responsibility is assigned within the Group for carrying out proposed actions which are also reviewed and updated by management.
As part of its annual review, during the autumn of 2014, the Group engaged outside consultants, Marsh Risk Consulting, to support management in the identication and prioritisation of risks to the Group.
Interviews were conducted with personnel across a range of business functions and locations to identify the potential risks which might impact the Group.
The results from this assessment were considered by management in supporting the formulation of appropriate mitigation measures and in cascading across the organisation engagement in the awareness and attention to risk management.
Findings from the annual review are reported to the Board together with recommended actions for managing the risks and a timetable for implementation of appropriate mitigation.
On page 64 in the Corporate Governance Report, we report further on the process for identifying and managing risk.
For each material risk, potential mitigation measures are identied for which a member of management is assigned lead responsibility.
These measures are tracked on a regular basis.
Management also evaluates whether there are any significant changes to the risks which have the potential to affect the business conducted by the Group.
The Board is informed of material changes to risks through reports which it receives and considers at its meetings.
This may be as part of regular reports which feature at most meetings, for example the report from the Chief Executive officer, or specic reports prepared in response to matters that might be raised by members of the Board or initiatives from management.
For example, the Board is regularly advised within the CEO report on the performance of each of our business segments.
This includes analysis of the impact of the activities of current and emerging competitors and the measures being taken by the Group in order to respond to events such as the introduction of competing technologies or changes in pricing strategies.
The reports submitted to the Board also consider circumstances which, whilst recognised as being beyond the direct control and inuence of the Group, nonetheless require consideration as to how the strategy of the Group might be affected, or should be adapted to take account of external factors.
For example, the Board is kept informed of wider emerging macro-economic and market trends and will consider, for each segment in which the Group operates, how management should address such matters.
This might have an impact on the Groups strategy for future products and technologies.
As an example, in 2014 the Company disposed of certain Imaging intellectual property IP, formerly part of the Groups Camera business which was no longer part of the Groups core strategy and in which further investment had ceased.
Also, updates are from time to time provided to the Board by members of the management team on specic areas of their responsibility.
During 2014, updates were received on work undertaken by members of the Technology Platform Engineering group to implement new measures to improve the development of highly complex software which the Group incorporates into its products.
Responsibilities framework for identication and management of risk The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk management process explained above.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of this process through reports it receives from management and, where necessary, external consultants are engaged to support the identication and progress in implementing mitigation measures.
Areas considered by the Audit Committee are mentioned in its report on pages 60 to 65.
Day-to-day oversight of risk is delegated, initially through the members of the management team who are responsible for the implementation and management of risk mitigation activities.
The Board recognises that the Group operates in a dynamic environment and over time the risks which have the potential to most signicantly affect the Group are likely to change.
Accordingly, during the course of any period, those risks which receive the most attention will reect these dynamics.
Board consideration of principal risks and uncertainties The following paragraphs describe the areas of risk and uncertainties faced by the Group on which the Board and the Audit Committee have focused during 2014 and which are expected to be included as areas of focus in 2015.
These are therefore regarded as the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group.
The Group faces a range of risks which are described in the section headed Risk Factors on pages 43 to 51.
32 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report Risk: failing to provide technological innovation for new products The success of the Group is dependent upon technological innovation the creation and implementation of new ideas that represent improvements over the capabilities and features of existing products in the markets where we operate.
Success can also depend upon whether we are able to provide solutions that allow our products to function in a way which had not previously been thought possible.
Sustaining an environment that promotes creative thinking as well as capturing and evaluating new ideas is an important part of technological innovation.
The Group has established various forums within which employees evaluate ideas and consider the potential commercial application, the findings from which are considered by management.
In 2014, the Board considered measures to enhance sharing of ideas by our engineers, which were intended to improve how we develop the complex software which forms part of our platform solutions.
We invest signicantly in research and development to identify such new ideas and technologies which might be attractive to our customers and which we believe may enable us to differentiate ourselves from our competitors.
This includes, for example, the development of new technologies for nascent or recently emerging markets, such as Bluetooth Smart and Indoor Location, as well as the development of new products that incorporate enhanced features or improved performance for more established markets in which the Group operates.
One example of such innovation introduced by CSR is CSRmesh.
For more information on this product, see page 15.
The Board takes a disciplined approach to the allocation of capital to our research and development activities.
As part of making informed investment decisions, we evaluate how the financial and human resources available should be assigned to our R&D activities.
The Board receives and considers reports on new ideas which are under evaluation and on how these progress over time.
The Board also considers the priorities for the Group in allocating its resources in support of its strategic objectives as well as assessing the capabilities of the organisation to support these objectives.
The process of technological innovation is highly complex and brings many challenges, some of which can be unknown at the outset of a project.
These challenges have the potential to arise during the development of new products and can disrupt the fulllment of objectives.
In seeking to mitigate such risks, management keeps under review how ongoing investment compares to the original business case.
This includes updates on critical phases during research and development and feedback from engagement with customers on their interest in adopting our technology and solutions.
These are kept under review as part of the execution of the project and are reported to management and the Board.
Risk: failing to achieve target timelines for delivery and successful launch of new products Meeting our strategic objectives and growing our business is dependent on our ability to develop, on a timely basis, innovative and differentiated semiconductor and platform solutions for existing and new markets.
In our industry, being early to market is increasingly significant for sustaining a leadership position and being able to set appropriate selling prices, which in turn impacts our profitability.
The technology industry is characterised by rapid change.
Companies that are successful are typically those who are consistently at the forefront in the timely transition of innovative ideas into nished products and the successful launch of those products into the market.
Executing on targets for the delivery of new technologies or products on a timely basis to our chosen markets is important if the Group is to secure revenues, maintain strong working relationships with our customers and create and sustain leading market positions.
Developing new technologies is highly complex.
Management and the Board monitor the progress of projects against pre-determined milestones, including project timelines and costs incurred.
Programme management resources conduct reviews in order to assess variance from the project plan in fullling these objectives and to propose corrective action if necessary.
During 2014, the Board received and discussed reports provided by management on the processes which support execution of product development through to market launch.
The Board also considered ongoing measures to improve our processes that support the development of new products and technologies.
Launching our products successfully involves not only offering products and technologies that meet our customers requirements and market expectations on a timely basis, but also promoting and marketing such products effectively so that our customers have good visibility of the products and technologies we offer.
Risk: failing to anticipate the requirements of our customers and compete eectively in a highly competitive market It is important that we understand and accurately anticipate what future products, features or technologies our customers want.
In the highly competitive and fast moving environment of technical innovation in which the Group operates, we face the possibility that our own technologies and solutions are superseded by alternatives offered by our competitors that are adopted by our customers.
Understanding the trends in the markets in which the Company operates, the requirements of our customers and the emerging demands of end users is important if we are to remain competitive.
One example of this is the emerging market of the Internet of Things IoT.
This new and dynamic market is attracting significant investment by companies seeking to adapt advances in methods for the capture and communication of data to assist people in their everyday lives.
Applications range from how people manage the energy they use for heating and lighting in homes, to monitoring a persons temperature, heart rate and blood pressure or allowing cars to share data that gives instant trafc updates, to enable drivers to change their route.
CSR is actively competing with other companies to secure new business in the many diverse applications, potential markets and with customers that might use connected technologies.
The companies with which CSR is competing are not only traditional competitors, but also those parties whose own industries and markets now recognise how IoT may play a part in improving their own products or services such as is security companies who are seeking to provide solutions that provide instant access to monitor and secure homes and ofces.
com 33 Principal risks and uncertainties continued An important part of understanding customer requirements is through effective engagement with them.
The Group seeks to work with current and potential future customers to understand their product plans and to identify the innovative features of existing and new technologies that could be attractive.
However in new emerging and dynamic markets there are an increasing number of potential customers with diverse requirements.
We recognise that the traditional methods of engagement with customers using our own sales teams and those of partner sales distributors needs to be adapted, including greater utilisation of what are commonly referred to as low touch methods, for example deploying greater use of web-based tools to more readily respond to requirements for information, as well as products and services.
During 2014, management initiated a review to assess alternative methods required for supporting customers and investment has been made, in identifying and appointing additional third parties to support our sales and distribution infrastructure as well as enhancing our website and business systems.
The Board receives regular reports on such matters, for example from our VP of Worldwide Sales and our Chief Technical officer.
As part of those discussions, the Board has also been kept informed about current and anticipated trends in the adoption of new technologies for example, how competing alternative technologies compare to those in which the Group is investing.
During 2014, the Board considered the challenges faced by the Group arising from competitors seeking to gain traction in our established markets, such as Voice & Music and Auto, predominantly in China, by introducing products at signicantly lower prices.
As part of its review, the Board has considered how the Group might most appropriately respond to such challenges, which has included the continuing focus on providing highly differentiated products that offer superior features and capabilities as well as understanding how our portfolio of more mature products might be used to support customers seeking lower cost alternatives.
Risk: the markets in which we operate may be subject to significant change which could adversely aect our business performance The products and solutions which we develop are adopted by our customers into their own end-products primarily for end-consumer based markets.
Changes in demand from consumers for the products in which our technologies feature can affect the success of our business.
The Board receives regular reports on each of the business areas that comprise the Groups reportable segments, to assess performance generally and relative to strategic objectives and annual targets, as well as to understand wider market trends.
Actions that the Board considers appropriate are initiated, taking into consideration the long-term interests of all stakeholders.
For example, as announced in December 2013 and also considered within our annual report for the 52 week financial period ended 27 December 2013, the Board determined to cease development of future camera-on-a-chip COACH platform products which had been acquired as part of Zoran Corporation in 2011.
In June 2014, we completed the sale of certain Imaging IP assets associated with the camera business, together with the team devoted to their development, for a total consideration of $44 million.
Because a significant proportion of our business is dependent on consumer demand which is directly impacted by economic conditions, the Board also seeks to understand wider economic forecasts and trends.
As part of routine reports, the Board is given information on expectations for future quarters for our own products which is based on the assessment of managers and employees, the feedback from our customers on their demand, as well as industry reports.
Risk: our automated information systems may not develop in line with our business requirements, may experience interruption or be subject to malicious attack We rely on our IT systems to support our operations globally.
These hold information and related data management tools which are important for our day-to-day business.
Reecting this, the Group has established forums for discussing the IT requirements of the business and for ensuring that the strategic needs and priorities of the Group give due consideration to how our business systems need to evolve in response.
Much of the information maintained by our systems is condential and commercially sensitive either to us or other stakeholders, for example, information about our customers and employees.
We recognise our obligations to safeguard this information and as well as having our own resources, we engage with third parties, including advisers and our customers in relation to developing IT and related data management systems.
The Board is mindful of the growing prole of cyber-related threats faced by companies and governments and the challenges arising from increasingly sophisticated attempts by individuals and groups to cause disruption using cyber-based techniques.
In 2014, we identied incidents where attempts were made to gain access to our systems and data.
With the aid of third-party experts in evaluating the threats posed and the measures taken by the Company, we believe the data that we hold and systems were not compromised.
However, we may be subject in the future to attempts to gain access to our data and those attempts could be successful.
Whilst we continue to invest in measures intended to safeguard our systems and data, these measures may not be effective against certain methods used by third parties.
During 2014, further work was undertaken into procedures concerned with access, use and distribution of data, supported by external consultants.
The review considered the prevailing practices and actions being taken by the Group in seeking to respond to threats to data security, including malicious attack so-called hacking, which could result, for example, in loss of data or disruption to our business.
The findings from this review were considered by the Board and Audit Committee and they have been kept appraised of managements responses in addressing those findings.
This will remain an area of focus in 2015.
34 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report Risk: failing to protect proprietary information Protecting our proprietary technology is an important part of being able to compete successfully and in support of our business with customers.
We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, non-disclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights.
The Board and management recognise the importance of implementing a considered strategy in respect of intellectual property matters, including protecting the Groups proprietary technology.
The Board, or within its delegated responsibilities, the Audit Committee, receives periodic reports from management on initiatives and workstreams connected with the development of the Groups portfolio of patents and trademarks which includes a cross-functional team of senior managers under a rolling programme supporting the Groups strategy of extending protection of the Groups intellectual property.
Risk: the need to defend the Group against claims associated with alleged breaches of intellectual property rights We are, and expect to be on an ongoing basis, involved in litigation, including that associated with intellectual property.
It is recognised that intellectual property litigation is commonplace in our industry and poses risks and uncertainties that may materially and adversely affect or disrupt our business, customer relationships, expenses or results of operations.
From time to time in the ordinary course of our business, we have received, and may continue to receive, communications from customers, competitors and others threatening litigation in respect of claims that we have breached rights or obligations belonging or owed to them concerning patent and other intellectual property rights 'IPR'.
The Audit Committee receives reports on actual or potential litigation involving the Group and monitors the developments and potential impact of such litigation on the Groups business and financial condition.
Risk: continuity of supply and capacity constraints We do not own or operate a fabrication facility and, therefore, rely on third parties, in particular TSMC and ASE, to manufacture, package and test our products on time and on budget.
Because of this reliance on third parties, we face the risk that our suppliers are unable or unwilling to satisfy the orders placed by our customers at all or on a timely basis.
During 2013, the Company experienced significant growth in demand in China for our products used in mono headsets as a result of stricter enforcement of legislation regarding hands-free driving.
This unexpected development meant we required greater than expected volumes of our products from suppliers on shortened delivery schedules.
Through the actions taken by management and the support of our supply chain partners, we were able to satisfy the requirements of our customers and benefit from the increased revenues.
As part of the CEO report, the Board receives regular updates on matters concerned continuing engagement with key suppliers.
