CSR in review Strategic report Financial statements Other information Governance Risk factors The following section sets out the risks that we believe could We may fail to develop new products on a timely basis or implement havea material adverse eect on, among other things, the our product development roadmaps eectively.
execution of our strategy, our market share, competitive position, In our industry, being early to market is increasingly significant for business performance, results of operations or financial condition.
sustaining a leadership position and being able to set high selling Itincludes the risks that we have identied as a result of the review prices, which in turn impacts profitability.
Meeting our strategic process undertaken by our executive management and Board, which objectives and growing our business is dependent on our ability, on is explained in more detail on pages 64 and 65 of our Corporate a timely basis, to convert the ideas in which we invest our research Governance report.
and development resources into innovative and differentiated semiconductor and platform solutions for existing and new markets.
The management of risk and the ways in which we seek to mitigate Various factors could result in us not obtaining an early mover the impact of risks forms part of our day to day operations and of advantage and missing windows of opportunity for introducing new each function.
In the Strategic Report, on pages 32 to 35, we products and technologies.
Executing on product and technology describe the subject matter of the reviews undertaken by innovation is highly complex.
In addition, product design and management and the Board during 2014. development can take 36 months and, in some cases, even longer.
During this time, we may not allocate sufficient resources to Risks associated with ownership of our ordinary shares and projects or may fail to plan or monitor the conduct of the project American Depositary Shares ADSs can be found on pages 162 adequately.
These factors can mean that during the course of and 163 of the Directors report Corporate and Share development we may encounter unforeseen technical challenges or Information.
be unable to fulll the objectives as expected, which may result in delays and impact our delivery schedules.
We may fail to understand our customers needs, anticipate technology trends, or create products for which there is no market.
Moreover, we may be required to meet industry dened standards, We may not understand or accurately anticipate what future or make changes to reect the requirements of our customers.
products, features or technologies our customers want.
While we We may also fail to understand market requirements during the invest signicantly in research and development to identify potential planning phase, which may require us to make changes during new ideas and technologies, in 2014 we invested $240.9 million the development phase.
on Research and Development, we may invest in the wrong areas, develop products which fail to meet our customers needs, or fail In addition, in the event of an unplanned business continuity event, to pursue product development opportunities that our competitors such as denial of access or loss of any of our business locations, at successfully undertake and bring to market.
a critical point in the lifecycle, we may be unable to execute to plan.
The risk is also compounded because of the lengthy product Each of these issues could delay the development of products design and development cycle of our products and technologies, or technologies, which could impact their launch and delivery, which can take 36 months and, in some cases, even longer.
thereby causing us to miss market opportunities.
Such delays Therefore, ideas for new products, features or technologies that could also lead to existing or potential new customers seeking we consider to be in line with our customers expectations may, alternative solutions and placing their business with competitors, due to the timeline for design and development, become obsolete which could have a material adverse effect on our market share and be replaced by more compelling products, features and and results of operations.
We may fail to eectively launch new products to the market, In addition, we may not have access to the appropriate technology or fail to successfully engage with the right customers due to or the resources needed to translate the ideas under development misunderstanding technology trends, customers or markets.
into products that our customers and the market require, or those Our success depends on the adoption by our customers of the that we have may be replaced by superior technologies developed technologies we offer, as well as the development and subsequent by competitors.
growth of the markets to which our products are targeted.
Launching our products successfully involves not only offering If we fail to correctly anticipate technology trends, we may create products and technologies that meet our customers requirements products or technologies for which there is either a smaller than and market expectations on a timely basis, but also promoting expected market or no market at all.
If we fail to identify the needs and marketing such products effectively so that our customers are of either our customers or the market, on a timely basis or at all, able to understand the products and technologies we offer.
or we fail to develop the right products or technologies, we may lose market share to our competitors if they are able to offer Effective engagement with our customers is important.
We may customers the products and features which customers want.
launch products and technologies at a time which is in accordance If our products do not have the features or capabilities which our with our own plans and intentions, but such launches may not be customers want, we may not achieve the expected demand for successful if we are not able to demonstrate to our customers the those products or be able to achieve the desired selling price.
capabilities or differentiated features of our products.
We may not This may result in us achieving margins and returns on our provide the necessary support to ensure our customers are able to investment which are lower than anticipated.
Further, if we need integrate their products with our own, because we do not allocate to make changes to our products, to meet customer requirements, sufficient or the right sales, marketing or technical resources.
In we may incur additional research and development expenses and addition, our customers may change their requirements, they may delay the delivery of the re-designed products.
Any of the foregoing wish to adopt similar or equivalent technologies at a stage in their could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations own development cycle which we are unable to satisfy, or decide or financial condition.
com 43 Risk factors continued that the technologies or products we have been developing are no Despite our data security measures, third parties may attempt to longer suitable or may determine that the products we supply will not obtain, use, copy, disclose, distribute, offer for sale or make our fulll their particular requirements.
Our technologies may, as a result, products, services or technology without authorisation, including decline in importance or be replaced entirely as the prevailing through hacking our systems to misappropriate our proprietary technology, particularly if customers consider that superior information and technology or interrupt our business.
Because technologies are being offered by competitors.
the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not Furthermore, our success depends upon the success of our recognised until launched against a target, we may be unable customers products in the marketplace.
Even if customers do adopt to anticipate, counter or ameliorate these techniques.
In addition, our solutions, in the event that their own products are unsuccessful, our procedures and protocols for protecting our systems and or expected adoption of new ideas fails to occur, on a timely basis regulating the appropriate access to our data by our employees or at all, our business may also be materially adversely affected.
may not be sufciently robust, and our information technology and Moreover, our customers may not have or be able to maintain infrastructure may be breached due to employee error, malfeasance market leading positions in their product segments, may suffer or other disruptions.
The incidences of such attacks upon delays in the introduction of the end-product in the market, may not businesses and governments have increased signicantly in the have the required marketing and distribution capabilities, or may fail past few years.
In 2014, we identied incidents where attempts to anticipate demand for their product.
Any of the foregoing could were made to gain access to our systems and data.
With support have an adverse impact on the success of the end-product and, from third parties in the evaluation of the threats posed and the therefore, on our business and results of operations.
measures taken by the Company, we believe the data that we hold and systems were not compromised.
However, we may be subject Our Information Technology IT and automated systems may not in the future to attempts to gain access to our data and those develop in line with the requirements of our business, could suer attempts could be successful.
Whilst we continue to invest in an interruption or chronic failure or be subject to hacking by third measures intended to safeguard our systems and data, these parties, all of which could disrupt the conduct of our business and measures may not be effective against certain methods used by or result in unauthorised disclosure of sensitive information.
For additional information see page 34.
We rely on IT and automated systems to support our operations globally.
Our IT systems are important in supporting effective Interruption of our IT systems or loss of data could also disrupt decision making including the conduct of research, development or cause delays in the performance of our day to day business, and introduction of new products, and also for the planning as in decision-making, recording and satisfying customer orders, well as for day to day management of our strategy and business or result in errors in ordering products from our suppliers.
activities, such as scheduling deliveries, invoicing and recording costs.
Our systems also store commercially sensitive and highly An inappropriate exposure, disclosure, loss or misappropriation condential information which includes the intellectual property and of condential information, including IP, could result in us breaching proprietary information owned by us, our suppliers and our the intellectual rights of third parties or undertakings we have given customers, as well as personally identiable data of our employees to safeguard third-party information, and could result in legal claims and individuals with whom we conduct our business.
or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disruption of our As we grow and evolve our business, we need to ensure that our operations, a loss of confidence in our products and damage IT infrastructure is able to handle the larger and potentially broader our relationships with third parties and wider business reputation, scope of our business and that we implement and maintain suitable which could have a material adverse effect on our business and data security procedures to protect and safeguard the data and results of operations and financial condition.
information we use in accordance with our requirements and the expectations of our customers.
This could require the expenditure of Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our significant funds and management resources, which could adversely business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.
impact our business and results of operations.
If our IT systems fail to evolve along with the needs of our business, due to our lack of Intellectual Property Rights may provide insucient protection.
investment, failure to predict future business needs or otherwise, Protecting our proprietary technology is an important part of being our ability to develop new products, maintain adequate operating able to compete successfully.
We rely on a combination of patent, systems to support our day-to-day activities or grow our business trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and could also be adversely affected.
other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights.
Our IT systems could also suffer an interruption or a chronic failure, which may occur, for example because of power shortages, natural These measures and the scope of rights may not be sufficient to or man-made disasters, or failure of a service supplier.
This could protect our technology from third-party infringement, invalidation, affect our day-to-day business activities including our development challenge, circumvention, or to protect it from the claims of others.
work, for example by disrupting the performance of projects, causing If our intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our errors to occur in the complex hardware and software we develop technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to for our products, or preventing us from launching new products ours.
Also, the laws of some countries, such as China, in which we on time.
operate and or from which we derive significant amounts of revenue 54% in 2014, may not protect intellectual property to the same extent as, for example, the laws of the United States and Western Europe, and our products may be at risk of misappropriation by third parties.
44 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic report Financial statements Other information Governance Our patent applications may not provide sufficient protection for We may also incur fines or penalties, which may be imposed by all competitive aspects of our technology or may not result in regulators or arise from a claim brought by a customer, because issued patents.
Issued patents may also not provide us competitive for example, we did not fulll the requirements of contracts we advantages.
If competitors are able to use our technology, our have with them.
Any of the foregoing could have a material effect ability to compete effectively would be affected.
Moreover, while on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition.
we hold, or have applied for, patents relating to the technology used in our products, some of the products are based in part on We are regularly, and may continue to be, subject to lawsuits, standards, for which we do not hold patents or other intellectual including lawsuits alleging claims that we infringe third party property rights.
Even where we have an issued patent, we may intellectual property rights IPR, and may also be subject to choose not to pursue all instances of patent infringement.
indemnification claims each of which may be costly, time Competitors may also independently develop technologies that consuming to contest and may result in loss of IPR.
are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology and may From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we have obtain patents that restrict our business.
received, and expect to continue to receive, communications from customers, competitors and others threatening litigation, alleging Our failure or inability to obtain sufficient intellectual property rights that we have breached rights or obligations belonging or owed to protection could increase our expenses and harm our competitive them concerning patent and other IPR.
Additionally, we have in the position and or result in increased litigation.
past received, and may in the future receive, notices that challenge the validity of our patents.
These claims may involve technology When expanding or evolving the technologies in which we choose and patents that apply to a wide range of our products and know toinvest or the regions where we conduct our business, we may how.
Furthermore, in some circumstances we agree to indemnify notproperly understand the regulatory environment applying to some customers for costs and damages arising from claims of those technologies or regions.
infringement of IPR brought against those customers, and we have In order to remain a leader in our chosen markets, CSR must received, and expect to continue to receive, indemnification claims innovate and develop new ideas, technologies and products that from customers that are involved in intellectual property litigation are attractive to customers and end-users.
When working on these implicating, directly or indirectly, our products.
These claims have ideas we may identify applications for our technologies or products in the past been, and may in the future be, material, and as we in end markets with which we or our customers have limited grow and expand our business, there is an increased likelihood experience.
These applications may be in markets which are of IPR claims against us and or our customers.
subject to extensive regulation, for example in areas concerned with public health or safety where products may have to satisfy Companies in the semiconductor industry can be expected to specic standards, undergo testing or registration.
aggressively protect and pursue their IPR.
In addition, it is common in our industry to nd third parties focused solely on bringing IPR We conduct our business in multiple territories, each of which has claims.
IPR litigation typically involves allegations of infringement their own laws and regulations that apply to us and that are subject and seeks unspecified damages, a permanent injunction against to change from time to time.
These include, for example, business further infringement, a nding of willful infringement, and attorneys registration, periodic reporting, ling of returns, laws and regulations fees and costs.
IPR claims may also involve the ling of complaints concerning our corporate activities or with the conduct of our with United States courts or administrative bodies, such as the business, including for example securing business with customers United States International Trade Commission ITC, urging it to and suppliers, employment, or health and safety.
While we seek to investigate the import and sale of allegedly infringing products.
In ensure that we comply with the laws and regulations which apply these cases, plaintiffs typically seek an exclusion order against to us, there may be circumstances or occasions where we are not future import of the infringing integrated circuits, chipsets and in compliance, for example in the storage, use or tracking functions products, including a cease and desist order in relation to which can form part of the capabilities provided by our products.
marketing, advertising, demonstrating, warehousing for distribution, In addition, new laws or regulations may be introduced which offering for sale, selling, distributing, licensing or using the infringing impose immediate compliance or require us to adapt our practices products in the United States or transferring them outside the or procedures in order to comply.
We may nd that we do not United States.
implement the required changes on a timely basis.
This may result in actions being brought against us and we may incur fines, We may not prevail in any particular litigation and we may, among penalties or disruption to our business as a result of our nonother things, be required, whether as a result of litigation against compliance, which could have a material effect on our reputation, us or because of indemnification obligations, to: results of operations or financial condition.
pay damages, royalties, lost profits, exemplary damages, the We may not possess a detailed understanding of these regulations third-partys attorneys fees and costs, court costs, licensing for example, due to inadequate assessment of the regulatory and or settlement costs, any of which may be material, requirements or they may change during the time in which our including payment of attorneys fees for both our attorneys and products or technologies are under development which may mean our customers attorney s in instances where we have that our products and the way in which those products are used, indemnified our customers: do not comply with some or all of the regulations.
This may cause us cease the development, manufacture, use, marketing and or to have to cancel a project altogether, or undertake additional work sale of products that use the intellectual property in question in order to meet the required regulations.
In such circumstances, in light of a court-imposed order or injunction or in light of an we may incur significant extra costs, have to write off research administrative order including an ITC order : and development, or incur delays in the launch of our products cease the importation of products into the United States or or technologies.
other countries in light of a court-imposed order or injunction or in light of an administrative order including an ITC order : www.
com 45 Risk factors continued expend significant resources to modify or redesign our in our products and solutions.
We may not be able to detect errors products, manufacturing processes or other technology so or defects during the research and development of the hardware that we do not infringe others IPR, or to develop or acquire and software that are used in our products or in their manufacture, non-infringing technology, which may not be successful or or we may fail to identify bugs or susceptibility to compatibility solve the underlying legal claim: issues before the products are supplied to customers or installed obtain licenses to disputed rights, which could require the in the customers own nished products.
This may occur due to payment of substantial upfront fees and future royalty payments inadequate design of the product or manufacturing testing schemes, and may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, or insufficient or inadequate and suitably trained resources capable and potentially be at a competitive disadvantage relative to of identifying potential problems.
competitors who are able to obtain such licenses: cease marketing the challenged products: or Errors, defects, bugs or viruses that may be present in our pay for alternatives for a customer if an injunction is issued against products could result in our customers devices being faulty, the customer, which alternatives may or may not be available, and which would result in returns from customers.
If failures occur in pay customers losses resulting from the injunction.
such faulty devices which are considered to be attributable to our products, we may face claims for losses or damages, incur costs Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on for rectifying the defects or replacing the product, and experience our results of operations, financial condition or cash ows.
order cancellations, any of which would adversely affect our business reputation and results of operations.
In addition, if any Furthermore, certain of our products are designed for use in of our products failed to comply with customer specications devices used by significant numbers of consumers, such as, for including, for example, compliance with certain environmental example, automobiles, including in-dash navigation units, personal requirements, customers could have a right to reject or return navigation units, mobile telephones, headsets, sound systems and products to us.
The risk of returns from customers could increase gaming devices.
Our server software is placed on servers providing in the event we participate in new or evolving markets for our wireless network services to end-users.
Because of the widespread technology, for example health-related applications for developing consumer uses of devices incorporating our products, we could be technologies, such as Bluetooth Smart.
subject to considerable exposure should an infringement claim against us or our customers occur, which, if successful, could have Certain customers have a more stringent policy regarding defects or a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
For example in the automotive industry, a market in which CSR is a supplier, if errors allegedly arise and such errors are our Regardless of the outcome, litigation brought against or involving responsibility, the expenses in responding to such alleged defects us, may require the expenditure of significant funds and resources, and any claims brought by our customers for rectification could have including significant attorneys fees, and time to litigate, defend or a materially adverse impact on our financial condition and results.
It can also divert the attention of our management or other key employees.
Litigation can take months or years to We have agreements with customers that provide warranty resolve, even if ultimately settled.
While a claim is pending against us, protection or indemnities.
Some of these agreements have no our customers may be reluctant to include our products as part of limitations on liability and for those that do, the limitations may not their future product design, including if they believe that our products be enforceable.
Product defects could have longer term harmful might ultimately be subject to an injunction or other legal remedy effects on our reputation or our relationships with our customers preventing their sale, import or use.
To the extent we dispute a or the market acceptance or sales of our products.
customers right to indemnification, such dispute may harm our goodwill and reputation with the customer and may harm the We rely on a limited number of third party foundries and possibility of future business from that customer.
In some instances, subcontractors in some cases sole suppliers to support product a customer may seek discounts or refuse to pay outstanding development, supply materials, manufacture, package and test invoices in light of pending demands for indemnification.
Even if integrated circuit products who may be unable to meet the we ultimately are successful, negative publicity could harm our requirements of our business.
reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, in We do not own or operate a fabrication facility and, therefore, rely addition to the expense, time, delay and burden on management on third parties, in particular TSMC and ASE, to supply materials, of the litigation itself, each of which could have a material adverse manufacture, package and test our products on a timely basis and impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
In 2014, TSMC was responsible for the manufacture of a significant proportion of our integrated circuits Design errors could go undetected during the development or or silicon chips and ASE provided a significant proportion of validation phases of our products or technologies, which could the testing and packaging support for our products.
For the result in errors or inadequate performance, which may lead to manufacture of our products, critical components are purchased product recall or customer dissatisfaction.
from a small number of suppliers, and for certain raw materials The products that we supply to our customers are required to a single supplier, in supporting the manufacture of our products.
operate in accordance with very precise specications.
In addition, as we innovate in the development of new products and technologies, there is a risk that we lack the necessary level of understanding and technical capabilities, particularly with the growing complexity of software related features which are required 46 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic report Financial statements Other information Governance Furthermore, during the research and development phases, we We have experienced some of the foregoing in the past and similar may from time to time use third parties to support us in the disruptions could occur in the future and could materially adversely execution of our projects to assist in creating products and affect our business and results of operations.
technologies, in circumstances where we lack the required resources or specialist capabilities.
Any of the risks listed above could require us to nd alternative suppliers, which we may be unable to do on a timely and cost We have no long-term supply contracts and, therefore, our efficient basis.
Failure to nd alternative suppliers on a timely suppliers are generally not contractually obligated to perform and cost efficient basis, in turn, could result in delays in the services or supply products to us for any specic period, in any manufacture and shipment of products and increased costs.
specic quantities, except as may be provided in a particular We could as a result suffer strained relations with one or more of purchase order.
our customers and impaired margins.
These consequences could undermine perceptions of our reliability, result in lost business and Our reliance on suppliers exposes us to a variety of risks ultimately could adversely affect our results of operations.
Even if associated with their operations, including: we were able to nd alternative suppliers which may prove difficult, processes necessary to qualify a supplier including changes to the terms on which they are able or willing to satisfying preliminary quality assurance clearances could take supply products and services to us, including adverse changes several months to complete and we, or our customers, may still to pricing, inadequate capacity made available to us for the experience problems arising from the use of new supply partners.
manufacture or testing of our products or to support the delivery of nished products, for example by providing that In addition, we are subject to price volatility in the marketplace of capacity to other customers in preference to us: the raw materials required to manufacture our products, for natural disasters, including earthquakes and tsunamis, example we have seen in the past, and may expect to see in the pandemics or geopolitical instability or events causing future, volatility in the price of the metals such as gold and copper disruption within the suppliers own supply chain, interruptions which are used in the integrated circuits which are contained on or disruption to the conduct of normal business including our chips.
This volatility makes it difficult for us to predict our cost research, manufacturing or testing conducted at the supplier of sales and may cause our results of operations to uctuate sites, plant shut-downs, closures or cessation of business signicantly.
If the cost of raw materials increases, our profit altogether, resulting in our suppliers being unable to meet their margins may decrease substantially.
obligations, including sourcing the raw materials they need in order to satisfy particular orders: The average selling prices of our products have historically disruption to the suppliers manufacturing process due to declinedover their life and this is likely to continue.
government imposed restrictions on use, or lack of availability, In the highly competitive markets in which we operate, the pricing of natural resources: of products which we supply can have a material bearing on a changes in senior management personnel with whom we deal customers decision to award contracts, particularly though not most closely: exclusively for products where technical or feature differentiation undetected errors caused by our suppliers during the is limited or which have been superseded by subsequent performance of their work on our behalf resulting in the generations of new products.
products or service supplied not meeting our requirements or those of our customers: In addition, competitors may adopt much lower prices as part of financial difficulties that may result in our suppliers being unable a strategy either to disrupt the position of incumbents particularly to obtain raw materials or services to satisfy particular orders, in an attempt to undermine market leaders who possess significant to maintain their operation at the level necessary to meet our market share, or where they are seeking to establish a significant needs or to remain in business altogether: share in a new or emerging market, with the intention of attracting failure or interruption of IT systems resulting in an inability to the business of existing or potential customers of CSR.
Such provide the required goods or services, which in turn affects measures may mean that our existing customers or potential new our ability to supply our customers: customers decide to place their business with third parties, rather quality problems at manufacturing sites, resulting in lower than CSR.
We recognise this risk, particularly in markets where yields, product failures and product returns: CSR has high market share, such as Voice & Music, in markets limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and which have experienced a proliferation of the adoption of wireless control and production costs: connectivity, communication and information systems, such as enforcement by regulatory bodies for alleged or actual failure Automotive and in rapidly emerging markets in which CSR is to comply with laws or regulations in the operation of the competing for market share, such as the Internet of Things.
suppliers business including those for the protection of the Competitors taking such steps may include those who are larger environment or that regulate working conditions : and than CSR or whose business is predominantly conducted in other developments that cause suppliers to modify their regions that have a lower cost base for example in Asia and operations in a manner that has the affect of adversely who are better placed to withstand the effects of lower prices impacting their ability to meet our needs.
and therefore lower operating margins.
com 47 Risk factors continued We have in the past reduced, and we expect in the future to reduce, resources to work with customers who ultimately are not the average selling prices of our products in response to competitive successful in developing or launching their own products.
As a pricing pressures, or new product introductions by our competitors.
result, we may not be successful in potential markets and fail to However, we may not respond on a timely basis to actions taken by secure new business opportunities, which would have a material our competitors, resulting in customers placing their business with adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations and our competitors.
Even in instances where we do reduce our prices, financial condition.
we may fail to effectively offset the impact of reduced prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing costs or successfully We may not hire, retain or develop people with the essential introducing new products at higher prices.
Any of the foregoing skillsneeded to support our business objectives.
could adversely affect our profitability, and financial condition.
We depend on the specialist skills and capabilities of our employees to develop new technologies and products to compete We may fail to operate an eective sales and distribution effectively and secure new business.
In some cases these skills infrastructure to be successful in new and developing markets.
are rare and the demand from businesses in acquiring the people We have traditionally operated in markets where a significant with such skills is intensely competitive.
Key personnel may leave proportion of the potential customers are large global companies our Group without us being able to replace them with new suitably with established protocols and methods of doing business.
As a qualied and experienced personnel.
result, the conduct of business with these customers has been supported through well-established direct and indirect sales and Our people have experienced significant changes, arising from third party distribution channels.
transactions in recent years including the acquisition of Zoran in 2011 and the disposal of the handset connectivity and handset In the recent past this has changed.
This has in part been affected location development operations in 2012, as a result of which by our strategic transition away from the mobile handset business, more than 300 employees were transferred out of the Group.
towards the development of emerging technologies and products More recently, on 15 October 2014, we announced the terms and the adoption of technologies such as Bluetooth Smart and of a recommended offer of an all cash acquisition of the Company Indoor Location.
In addition, certain potential end markets for these by Qualcomm Global Trading Pte.
Ltd. QGT, an indirect wholly products and technologies, such as the Internet of Things, are new owned subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated Qualcomm, to be and therefore the possible demand from users and areas of greatest effected by a scheme of arrangement under the Companies Act growth are unpredictable.
There have also been changes in the 2006 the Scheme.
The court meeting and general meeting business and strategy of our customers, as well as a broadening in held on 4 December 2014, resulted in the approval of the Scheme the number of potential customers, with different requirements due by the Companys shareholders and the passing of a special to the proliferation and increasing investment in recent years in resolution to approve certain matters relating to the Scheme and smaller companies looking to develop niche products or the transaction.
The transaction is subject to a number of technologies for potential high growth markets such as the Internet regulatory and other conditions, which are set out in full in the of Things.
We believe that the unpredictable nature of how they will Scheme document and which include clearance by competition develop, including which customers are best positioned to succeed authorities in China, Germany, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the and how their requirements can most effectively be supported, USA.
Subject to these conditions being satisfied, the Scheme is create considerable uncertainties as to our strategy and how we expected to become effective by late summer 2015. should most effectively engage with customers in order to position the Group to grow.
In addition, markets in regions such as China and It is recognised that such matters, including the expected India have seen a greater number of companies being established future closing of the transaction can be unsettling and disruptive, with diverse demands and product requirements.
We therefore which could affect the retention of key people.
anticipate an increasing need to adapt our approach to engaging with a greater and more diverse group of customers, including Whilst CSR continues to invest in its personnel, including smaller and emerging customers, who are new to the markets supporting them in the development of their capabilities which are expected to utilise these technologies.
including technical capabilities, we may be unable to identify, acquire and retain skilled resources, which in turn could affect our We may fail to invest sufciently in the business systems and ability to execute on our strategy.
The failure to recruit people or infrastructure that may be required for us to support a broader to provide adequate training or development may result in our and more diverse customer base in an effective and timely manner.
employees not having the required knowledge and skills for us We may also be unable to establish the right sales team for the to pursue our strategy.
This could adversely affect our business.
given markets, or to adapt our systems or establish business relationships with third parties, including distributors, for the wider and more diverse customer base and end markets.
We may, as a result, not be able to promote our products to the right customers or support the right customers effectively.
We may also use our 48 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic report Financial statements Other information Governance We do not have long-term contracts with our customers.
uncertain demand patterns, which could result in distributors In keeping with wider industry practice, we do not generally ordering more products than they require to satisfy our end enter into long-term purchase contracts with our customers, customers, resulting in them holding excessive inventory: and we cannot predict whether our current customers will restrictions on credit terms, which could result in distributors continue to place orders or whether existing orders or contracts experiencing difficulty in selling products because end will be cancelled.
customers do not have the cash ow to enable them to buy from the distributors: and Customers generally purchase our products subject to short-term uctuating order patterns, which could result in end customers purchase orders, which, in some cases, the customer may revise amending existing orders or ceasing the purchase of products or cancel altogether for example, due to slowing demand, because of insufficient demand, each of which could affect our economic conditions, change in end-consumer purchasing distributors ability to continue in business.
preference or other events beyond the control of the customer, including natural disasters.
If our customers stop placing orders Our business would be disrupted if end customers were unable to for our products or cancel or modify existing orders or contracts, obtain our products from the distributors on a timely basis.
In the our results of operations and financial condition could be materially event a distributor fails, we may be unable to collect amounts owed adversely affected.
to us, for products that we have supplied or recover those products in default of non-payment.
Macro-economic conditions may continue to adversely aect demand for our products and hence our financial performance.
We are exposed to the political, economic and regulatory conditions We are a global company, with operations and business conducted in the countries in which we and our customers operate, which may in many parts of the world.
Depressed economic conditions have adversely aect our operating results.
persisted to varying degrees through 2014 in different parts of the We derive nearly all our revenue from sales outside the UK.
For world and these macro-economic variations, and the general example, our sales in China, where we maintain three ofces and uncertainty as to the potential for economic recovery, linked in part approximately 200 employees, accounted for 54%, 59% and 55% to concerns about the persisting high levels of personal, corporate of our revenue in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
Further, one and government debt are expected to continue in 2015. of the factories that manufacture our products has operations located in China.
During 2014, there has been heightened unrest Our products predominantly are, and will continue to be, supplied for which has affected a number of the worlds established and incorporation into devices intended for the consumer market.
Examples include the widespread If economic conditions worsen and sales of such consumer devices demonstrations in Hong Kong, geopolitical tensions, such as those decline, demand for our customers products, and, therefore, for our resulting in the introduction of trade embargoes involving Russia own products, is also likely to decline.
Any difficulties experienced by and Western governments and an increase in terrorist attacks in our customers and suppliers in accessing sources of liquidity could various parts of the world.
We recognise that because of our global also seriously disrupt their businesses, which could lead to a business activities in regions spreading from China, through India to significant reduction in future orders of our products or difficulty on the US, we are subject to economic climate, political environment, their part to meet their payment obligations to us or the inability of government policy and other risks that affect these countries in suppliers to meet their obligations to us in supplying products or which we and our customers operate, including regions, where the continuing to support our business needs.
political, legal and economic climate, both nationally and regionally, can be volatile and unpredictable.
Any of the outcomes above may materially and adversely affect our business.
We may face difficulties in complying with business practices or managing cultural differences, difficulties in working with local We could be adversely aected as a result of financial diculties infrastructure and transportation networks, as well as difficulties in ofor failure by, our distributors.
complying with local regulatory requirements in the design of We supply a significant proportion of our products to end customers products in each of the countries in which we and our customers through third party distributors.
Our largest distributor accounted for operate.
In particular, we are exposed to the evolving legal and approximately 29% of our revenue in 2014, compared to 21% of our regulatory environment and enforcement in China, which is subject revenue in 2013 and 16% of our revenue in 2012.
The distributors to inherent uncertainties.
Examples of economic and political are independent third parties who support our own direct marketing developments that could adversely affect us include government and sales.
Distributors will continue to play an important role for CSR control over capital investments, increased taxation, restrictions on in delivering on our strategy, as we evolve our business model, imports, import duties or currency revaluations.
In addition, supporting us in winning new business as we broaden the number protection of intellectual property rights and condentiality in China of customers to whom we expect to supply our products and may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries services.
Continuing economic uncertainty in addition to changes in or regions.
We may also incur costs in complying with new laws the Companys customer base presents significant challenges for our and regulations for example, labour laws and regulations have distributors, including: been recently enacted in China.
com 49 Risk factors continued Moreover, we and our customers are subject to various import and Within the markets in which we operate, we face competition export laws and regulations.
Government export regulations apply from public and private companies, as well as the in-house design to the encryption or other features contained in some of our efforts of our customers.
In addition, we have seen increasing products.
As a result, we and our customers may face restrictions competition from a number of companies who have exited markets on imports and exports or incur costs or operational limitations in in which they were established and become new entrants in obtaining and complying with the required permits.
For example, markets where we operate.
A number of our competitors have the Chinese government imposes controls on technology import.
signicantly greater financial, technical, research and development, If we fail to continue to receive licenses or otherwise comply with marketing, sales, manufacturing and other resources than us.
these regulations, we may be unable to manufacture the affected Some of our competitors bundle their connectivity and location products at foreign foundries or ship these products to certain products with baseband processors, and we may lose those customers, or we may incur penalties or fines.
customers that prefer to use platform suppliers for the full suite of connectivity and baseband modem solutions.
Other competitors Our product or manufacturing standards could also be impacted conduct business in regions that have a cost base lower than we by new or revised environmental rules and regulations or other do for example in Asia, which allows them to withstand the effects social initiatives.
For example, in August 2012, the US Securities of lower prices and lower operating margins.
If we fail to compete and Exchange Commission the SEC adopted annual disclosure successfully, our results of operations and prospects would be and reporting requirements for companies that use conict adversely affected.
Competitors taking such steps may include minerals tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold mined from the those who are larger than CSR or whose business is predominantly Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in their conducted in regions that have a lower cost base.
Because our products contain one or a combination of tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold to improve their functionality, we We may fail to manage the transition to smaller geometry have since May 2014 led and are required going forward to le processtechnologies.
with the SEC Form SD, a specialised disclosure report.
Such future To remain competitive and sustain our prospects for growth, requirements could involve additional costs, including those related we need to provide products and solutions which incorporate to the due diligence process of determining the source of minerals increasingly complex features, whilst at the same time meeting used in our products, as well as the costs of possible changes to increasingly exacting requirements on size, power and cost.
products, processes or sources of supply as a result of such This requires us to progressively transition our semiconductor verication activities.
Moreover, these requirements could affect the and system-on-chip products to increasingly smaller line width sourcing and availability of minerals used in our manufacturing geometries meaning chips of a smaller size whilst incorporating processes, as a result of which we may not be able to obtain faster processing time using less power which helps support products at competitive prices.
Some of our customers may also customer demands for smaller, more powerful and cost effective elect to disqualify us as a supplier if we are unable to verify that all solutions.
This transition requires modications to design and of our products are conict-free.
manufacturing processes, and achieving these modications could result in delays in product deliveries, increased expenses If we or our customers fail, or are unable, to manage these risks in or reduced manufacturing yields.
the various markets in which we operate, our business may be materially adversely affected.
Failure to transition to smaller geometries, on a timely basis or at all, particularly in the development of system-on-chip solutions, We may fail to compete successfully in a very competitive market.
could materially and adversely affect our competitive position.
The markets for our products are highly competitive and rapidly evolving.
Competition has been intensifying and is expected to We may be unable to obtain or fail to procure sucient insurance continue to intensify in the future due to the emergence of new toprotect our business.
companies as competitors in our markets or new markets where We are engaged in business activities which are technically we choose to operate, or due to consolidation of market complex, and involve us in developing new and innovative solutions participants.
that are adopted by our customers.
Because of the complex nature of our business, we have in the past, and expect to continue to We compete in different markets to varying degrees on price, face, difficulties in obtaining insurance, for example where we might technical performance, product features, product system face claims for breach of third party intellectual property or claims compatibility, product design and technology, timely introduction of associated with errors or defects in our products.
Moreover, our new products, product availability, and sales and technical support.
insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances We are seeing increased competition throughout the markets in and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject, which we operate.
The increased competition could result in more including cyber security attacks which have materially increased in pronounced price reductions, reduced margins and or loss of recent years.
Even where we have obtained insurance, it may not market share.
be sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or such cover may not be available on acceptable terms.
The insurer may also deny coverage as to any future claim.
The successful assertion of one or more claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.
50 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic report Financial statements Other information Governance We may fail to manage inventory levels and those aected by end and the parties expect that it will become effective by late summer of life manufacturing cycles.
The proposed transaction, whether or not consummated, The lead time to manufacture and test our products for delivery may disrupt our operations and business and may divert from our suppliers ready for shipment to our customers can take managements attention and our resources from ongoing business 12 weeks and in some cases even longer.
To ensure we have and operations.
Moreover, we may incur unexpected costs, sufficient product to meet our customers future demand, we have charges or expenses resulting from the proposed transaction, to make assumptions about order levels, relying on customer some of which are payable by us whether or not the proposed projections as well as our own judgment and experience.
Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and Due to general economic conditions and the volatile nature of the financial condition.
consumer electronics markets, actual demand can differ signicantly from our assumptions.
Such uctuations in demand The proposed transaction is subject to closing conditions, such as tend to be more extreme during the initial launch of a new product the satisfaction of certain regulatory conditions, including antitrust and also towards the end of a products economic life, when clearances in China, Germany, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the demand can vary substantially from expectations.
Although pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement, Qualcomm has agreed to use reasonable endeavours to implement Such uctuations can result in us ordering too little product, in the acquisition and satisfy the conditions that relate to antitrust which case we cannot meet our customers requirements which clearances, the closing conditions may ultimately not be satisfied could affect our reputation with our existing or future customers, or on time or at all.
If the proposed transaction is not completed, the too much, in which case we hold excess inventory.
Holding share price of our ordinary shares and ADSs may change to the excessive inventory could cause us to charge lower prices to be extent that the current market price of our securities reects an able to sell such products which could have an adverse effect on assumption that the transaction will be completed, and it may our profitability, or write off inventory which could result in us decline signicantly.
We have in the past, and may in the future, be affected by decisions of our customers to cease the supply of products or particular models that have experienced sharper than expected decline in demand for example, this may occur where the product is superseded by an updated model or by competing products that offer more attractive features.
In addition, some markets for particular products can experience unexpected changes in demand patterns such as we experienced in China during 2013 for our mono headsets in response to enforcement of driving legislation on use of mobile phones.
From time to time, circumstances may arise which require us to order greater quantities of products in order to meet expected demand over the longer term, albeit this is greater than the levels forecasted by customer order schedules.
For example, during 2012, we were informed of the decision by a supplier to cease manufacture of a product.
This required us to place orders at higher volumes in the short term, in order to allow us to support customer demand in the period after manufacturing by our suppliers ceased.
insufficient or excessive inventory may result in us either having to charge lower prices in order to sell the products or being unable to sell the products, write off the inventory, resulting in the Company incurring further material costs.
We believe this risk is enhanced in less mature markets and when engaging with a broader and more diverse customer base, such as the Bluetooth Smart and Indoor Location markets.
The proposed transaction with Qualcomm may disrupt our business and, if the transaction does not occur, the price of our ordinary shares and ADSs may decline.
In October 2014, CSR and Qualcomm announced that agreement had been reached on the terms of a recommended cash offer through which our entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital will be acquired by Qualcomm under a scheme of arrangement pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions.
The scheme of arrangement was approved by shareholders in December 2014, www.
