Risk management process Risk management roles and responsibilities Strengthening for the future 2014 saw the materialisation of Board The Board has ultimate responsibility for risk management.
several key risk factors including This responsibility encapsulates an understanding of the key risks, recognition and oversight of the measures in place to the unauthorised payments issue, manage risks and acceptance of the residual risks.
Any areas where the Board is uncomfortable with the risk exposure are delays to field development and investigated further, to ensure that either additional controls are significant drop in oil price.
implemented to reduce the risk to an acceptable level, or if not possible, that the activities giving rise to the risk are curtailed.
Audit and Risk Committee Understanding and addressing critical The Audit and Risk Committee oversees the business risk business risks management system and regularly reviews the corporate risk register, to ensure it reflects the key risk areas of the business The Companys response to these events has been swift and that controls are in place to mitigate risks.
The other and efforts are underway to resolve the underlying failures.
important role of the Committee is to ensure key controls With respect to the process of risk management in 2014, are audited as necessary, to provide assurance that they are we outsourced the internal audit function and have engaged effective in mitigating risk.
external consultants to support management in addressing some of the findings: in particular, to look at the reporting Executive Directors and escalation of risks to the Audit and Risk Committee The Executive Directors are responsible for ensuring they fully and upwards to the Board.
understand the key risks within their remit and that mitigating An internal audit was conducted into compliance with the measures are in place.
The Chief Executive is generally responsible Bribery Act 2010 early in 2014.
This audit recommended for strategic risks, with the Chief Operating Officer overseeing that a more detailed risk assessment be carried out to ensure the majority of the field delivery and exploration risks and those that all bribery and corruption risks had been identified and associated with environment, safety, community and security.
that effective controls were in force.
External advisors were The Group Finance Director is responsible for finance-related risks appointed to assist in the conduct of this risk assessment including treasury management, taxation and hedging.
and worked closely with the Afren teams across the entire business.
In parallel with this work, and specifically following Business unit and asset managers the suspension of the Directors in the middle of the year, Within Afrens operating business units, risk management is the Code of Business Conduct was reviewed and revised everyones responsibility, but particular responsibilities lie with the to provide a clear framework for how we expect people business unit and asset managers.
They should ensure the specific to behave.
country and asset risks are communicated effectively to both the local workforce, who then implement the mitigating measures, Another key activity undertaken during the year included a and to senior management, to ensure risks are appropriate for wide ranging review of the corporate responsibility risks and the corporate strategy and risk appetite.
in particular those associated with climate change.
This review generated a corporate responsibility strategy that was reviewed Risk manager and approved by the Board in March 2014.
We have been The Risk manager is responsible for maintaining and implementing working against this strategy throughout 2014 and have the business risk management system.
The role involves reviewing made significant advances in many key areas.
and updating the risk management procedures and supporting the business to refresh and review their risks regularly.
The manager works with the risk owners to ensure new and emerging risks are identified and reported to the Audit and Risk Committee in regular updates on business risks.
Internal audit The Internal audit function is responsible for the independent monitoring and assessment of internal controls based on the business risk profile.
This involves preparation of a risk-based Annual Plan, providing an independent review of business activities, making recommendations to improve the internal control framework, and contributing to the development of risk and controls awareness throughout the organisation.
The internal audit function reports directly to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Afren has outsourced the internal audit Iain McLaren function to PwC.
Chairman of Audit and Risk Committee 24 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Summary of key risks and mitigation to Audit and Risk Committee and Board Review of compliance by internal audit Monitoring and reporting by line management Mitigating actions Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Process for ongoing risk management Corporate risk register Corporate strategy Covers key business functions Strategy cascaded to business units Risk registers Nigeria Review risks Business unit plans Kurdistan region of Iraq to delivery East Africa Cte dIvoire Strategy cascaded Project and asset to projects assets risk registers Ebok Okoro OML 26 Project and asset plans What are our key risks?
High Environmental Security Treasury safety incidents incidents management Field delivery unfulfilled Geo-political PSC work risk obligations Taxation and other Bribery and legislation Corruption changes Oil price Loss of key Host volatility employees community action Climate change Exploration failure Management of growth Likelihood of occurrence High Low Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 Magnitude of impact
