Principal risks and uncertainties During 2014 we have continued to monitor and review the following principal risks and uncertainties relating to the Groups business performance.
KPI Performance Strategic Key risk Description and impact How we manage it metric priorities Responsibility See also Change Assessment Operational risk Field delivery risk applies to all phases of the E&P cycle from seismic All operations are subject to risk reviews, to identify as early Net effective working Chief Operating Officer Operations No change.
Field delivery acquisition through to production operations.
At each phase the as possible any potential risks to success.
interest production review High risk Field delivery risks in 2015 will mitigating measures will be different.
However, failure to control risks Our engineers analyse results from appraisal and development wells, Capital expenditure remain high as a consequence of will lead to project delays, cost over-runs, high production costs, early and determine the appropriate course of action for the drilling the installation and commissioning Operating cost per barrel field decommissioning and, ultimately, lower than expected reserves.
of the new Ebok facilities.
In 2014, Afren encountered operational delays which impacted the We closely monitor all projects to ensure they go to plan and so we timing of production ramp-up at both Ebok, with the installation of the can take action to maintain progress.
Ebok CFB extension facilities, and OML 26, due to the declaration of We monitor project finances alongside their budget to minimise over-runs.
Force Majeure at the Forcados Terminal in Q1 2014.
In January 2015, We monitor production operations closely to ensure we minimise Afren announced its intention to review its strategic options in respect unplanned downtime and control operating costs tightly.
of the Barda Rash PSC, following disappointing operational performance at the field and an updated reserves assessment from RPS Energy.
We compare actual production regularly to forecast production.
The maintenance of good working relations with our Partners is also critical We hold regular technical and operating meetings with our Partners to field delivery.
Without this we face potential delays to projects, issues to keep them fully appraised of developments and to get their input with funding and disagreement on how best to develop our portfolio.
and agreement on key issues.
Exploration activities can be capital intensive and may involve Exploration assets are subject to a rigorous peer review process.
Reserves replacement ratio Group Head of Operations No change.
Exploration Medium a high degree of risk.
Sustained exploration failure will affect Exploration review failure We evaluate exploration risk for each prospect by looking in detail at F&D cost We continue to rigorously assess the Groups growth potential.
how to fide-risk the key elements of the subsurface data, source rock, exploration risks and to rank reservoir, trapping and seal mechanisms.
We subsequently rank prospects accordingly.
There is a continuing focus on preventing major pollution or loss We have implemented comprehensive EHSS management systems based LTIF Head of EHSS Corporate No change.
Environmental High of life due to failure of systems, equipment or human action.
on best industry practice, at both corporate and country level, with an responsibility or safety TRIR We will mitigate the increased annual independent audit programme to ensure effective implementation.
risks posed by the installation and incidents Number and volume Afren oversees its contractors closely to ensure they accept and meet commissioning of new facilities of spills our EHSS standards.
by effective planning, monitoring and supervision.
Specific EHSS teams in each area of operation.
Contingency plans in place and tested regularly.
Loss of production interest or exploration licence due to incomplete The operations, finance and legal teams jointly monitor compliance Work plan and budget Chief Operating Operations Increase.
Unfulfilled fulfilment of work or PSC obligations.
Officer review High work or PSC We maintain close working obligations We maintain good, open working relationships with local governments relations with relevant ministries in the countries of operation.
and monitor compliance with licence conditions.
External risk The countries in which Afren operates continue to face political, Through close liaison in each relevant country, we monitor Civil or political unrest Country MDs Operations review No change.
the situation from the perspective of our safety and security.
risk We will continue to monitor 2014 saw particular problems with Boko Haram in northern Nigeria Contingency plans in place and tested regularly.
geo-political risks at the regional and the rise of Islamic State in Iraq.
Whilst these issues received and local level.
Through our contacts in governments and industry, as well as wide international media coverage our operations were not directly though specialist advisors, we continuously monitor and evaluate affected and we continue to monitor the situation closely.
the potential impacts on our business arising from changes 2015 will see elections in Nigeria and we will be conducting a rigorous in the geo-political environment.
business risk assessment of the potential impacts that may arise.
Afren continues to operate in regions where kidnapping, Security teams in each area of operation.
Security incidents Head of EHSS Corporate responsibility No change.
Security High piracy and criminal attacks occur.
incidents Rigorous security management programme.
We will maintain robust security programmes across all operations.
Security risk assessments for each asset and operation.
Oil prices can fluctuate significantly.
In Q4 2014, we liquidated our hedge position, which benefited from Realised oil price Group Finance Finance review Increase.
Oil price Medium the lower oil prices in the second half of the year, to generate cash.
Director volatility In 2014, the Group hedged approximately 35% of production We will review our hedge position through the use of financial instruments.
Our operations both on and offshore have the potential for interruption Afren has a tried and tested system for managing community affairs, Host communities incidents Head of EHSS Corporate responsibility No change.
Host High by our host communities if relations are not well established.
which is applied to all operations.
community CR spend action We have continued our close relationships with our host Community affairs teams are in place where required.
communities and have seen no community action against Contingency plans in place and tested regularly.
26 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance KPI Performance Strategic Key risk Description and impact How we manage it metric priorities Responsibility See also Change Assessment Operational risk Field delivery risk applies to all phases of the E&P cycle from seismic All operations are subject to risk reviews, to identify as early Net effective working Chief Operating Officer Operations No change.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 Principal risks and uncertainties continued KPI Performance Strategic Key risk Description and impact How we manage it metric priorities Responsibility See also Change Assessment Strategic risk As an international oil and gas operator, bribery and corruption We conducted a comprehensive anti-bribery and corruption risk Number of Group General Counsel Business ethics Increase.
Bribery and Medium represent an ongoing risk to our business.
This work was integrated into the review whistle-blowing incidents corruption We will continue to closely and update of the Code of Business Conduct that was completed Number of reportable monitor this aspect of our business, towards the end of the year.
The new Code was approved by the fraud incidents responding swiftly and thoroughly Board in December and all staff and contractors underwent on-line and investigating all whistle-blowing training and testing on the requirements of the Code.
events and other allegations of We have established an independent whistle-blowing hotline to enable inappropriate activities.
concerns about poor practice to be voiced without fear of reprisal.
We review and update specific Anti-Bribery and Corruption policies and procedures annually and quarterly respectively, to meet the stringent requirements of the UK Bribery Act as well as the UK Ministry of Justice Guidance.
We provide new starters and existing employees with training on anti-bribery and corruption as part of the induction process and as an ongoing programme.
We provide quarterly updates to the Audit and Risk Committee regarding anti-bribery and corruption, including any whistle-blowing reports and their subsequent resolution.
Management of growth is a reducing risk following the fall in oil All acquisitions are subject to thorough due diligence, to create an Staff turnover Chief Executive Human Resources Decrease.
Management price and the slowing of Company expansion.
Executive Chairman Low of growth Inability to recruit We will continue to closely We design remuneration policies to incentivise, motivate and retain for key positions monitor our KPIs to confirm key employees as well as to attract new personnel as required.
that this risk remains low.
Loss of knowledge and skills to the Group, in particular in countries We consider succession planning Group-wide, taking into account Staff turnover HR Director Human Resources, Decrease.
Loss of key Medium of operation.
the development of the executive and senior management.
Directors remuneration employees Voluntary staff turnover report We design remuneration policies to incentivise, motivate and retain decreased slightly due to the key employees including Directors.
We set salaries and reward of senior executives, including Directors, at competitive levels using third party benchmarks.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions contribute to climate change.
We recognise the potential impact that energy use and GHG have on GHG emissions Head of EHSS Corporate responsibility New.
Climate Medium Important stakeholders expect Afren to have a strategy and climate change and to seek to reduce emissions associated with flaring: change We will continue to monitor and meaningful reduction targets flaring represents over 50% of We monitor energy use and ensure energy efficiency in all operations.
report on our GHG emissions and Afrens current GHG emissions.
will set flaring reduction targets We monitor and report other atmospheric emissions.
Failure to address this issue risks reputational damage and issues for 2015.
We have developed and disclosed a comprehensive climate change with the Companys shareholders.
strategy and will identify engineering solutions to reduce flaring and This also represents an opportunity for Afren to demonstrate set flaring reduction targets for 2015. a forward-looking approach in comparison to its peers.
Financial risk There is a risk that changes in tax regimes and other legislation may Our financial and legal teams monitor current legislation and proposed Effective tax rate Group Finance Director Financial review Increase.
Taxation High affect our financial results.
As detailed in the financial statements, changes and incorporate these into our working practices.
and other We will continue to actively monitor there are uncertainties surrounding the taxation treatment of marginal legislation Maintenance of good, open working relationships with local authorities potential changes in tax regimes fields see note 4.8: Contingent liabilities and Pioneer status see note in the countries of operation.
that may impact our business.
changes 5.16: Post balance sheet events Company and Group in Nigeria.
Involvement with industry groups in the country of operation to discuss sector issues.
The availability of financing to maintain the ongoing operations The Group is currently in the process of financial restructuring in order Liquidity Group Finance Director Financial review Increase.
Treasury High of the business is key.
to provide liquidity and improved financial stability for the Groups management ongoing operations.
28 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance KPI Performance Strategic Key risk Description and impact How we manage it metric priorities Responsibility See also Change Assessment Strategic risk As an international oil and gas operator, bribery and corruption We conducted a comprehensive anti-bribery and corruption risk Number of Group General Counsel Business ethics Increase.
This Strategic report and the information referred to herein have been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Toby Hayward Interim Chief Executive Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29
