d e i I f i m t n p e r d o i v s e e m v i e t n c t e s j i b m o p o l t e s m t e a n e t r e h d T d e w e i v e r r T o h t r e e s a t s s e v q PRinCiPAL RiSKS AnD UnCeRTAinTieS We manage risk to help us achieve our strategic objectives Commercial risks and protect our reputation Reduced profitability The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups risk management processes and the Board is responsible for the Risk area and potential impact appropriate identification of risks and the effective implementation We operate in extremely competitive markets.
If we fail to compete effectively of mitigating activities.
or are subject to higher input prices that cannot be recovered by raising Internal Audit provides independent assurance to management selling prices without losing volumes we could lose sales and profits.
and the Audit Committee as to the effectiveness of mechanisms put in place to mitigate risks.
This process explicitly recognises mitigating controls the relationship between Internal Audit and Risk Management.
We set ourselves the target of continually reducing our cost base and are able The Audit Committee is satisfied that the processes are adequate to invest in our supply chain to help achieve this.
Further details are set out in the Corporate No one customer accounts for more than 15% of total revenues and we Governance report on pages 35 to 44. continually strive to widen our customer base.
Despite challenging trading Following the reorganisation of the business into One Dairy conditions we have maintained investment in marketing our four key brands.
Crest we have revised how we compile our risk register.
Central, Our innovation programme continues to generate new products that reinforce our appeal to customers.
We recognise the importance of strong customer demand and supply risks are identified separately by members of relationships and the executive team plays an active part in maintaining and the Management Board and senior managers and consolidated developing these.
They are also involved in major customer negotiations.
into an initial register that is then reviewed and refined by the We conduct customer surveys to benchmark our performance and we continuously monitor the service and quality levels provided to our customers Management Board as a whole to create the Group Risk register.
and consumers, and have procedures in place to react quickly to any issues.
The Board formally reviews the Group Risk Register annually when Our commitment to corporate responsibility is an important part of our overall the budget is set.
The Company Secretary and General Counsel proposition to some customers.
is responsible for highlighting to the Board any changes to the Groups Risk Register identified during the intervening periods.
Reduced demand from consumers The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out in the table below.
This is not intended to be an exhaustive Risk area and potential impact analysis of all risks facing the Group.
Consumers could move away from dairy products for economic, health, ethical, or other reasons leading to lower sales and profits.
mitigating controls Consumers are at the heart of our business and we regularly monitor consumer trends.
We continue to promote the health benefits provided by dairy products and develop healthier products.
We also continue to maintain our focus on developing a compelling new product development pipeline, enabling us to react to consumer trends, for example with more  packaging, and healthier variants of our key brands.
We have increased our direct involvement with government to understand and Group board influence future legislation that could affect future consumer demand.
input cost volatility Risk register Risk area and potential impact Volatile milk and non-milk costs vegetable oils, diesel, electricity, gas and packaging could reduce margins unless we can manage cost risk, find other cost efficiencies elsewhere or increase selling prices.
Management board Milk prices could become increasingly volatile as European milk production quotas are abolished from April 2015. mitigating controls This area is closely reviewed by the Management Board which has established a risk committee to monitor and hedge forward non-milk commodity prices as appropriate.
The risks associated with purchasing large volumes of milk have been reduced by establishing milk pools linked to major customers.
We seek to absorb short term cost movements through supply chain efficiencies.
Our purchasing and commercial teams have clear lines of communication between them to ensure customers are kept aware of changes to our cost base and requests for price increases can be fully justified.
We have reviewed the effect that we believe the abolition of milk quotas will have on our business.
We believe it is commodity cheese markets, in which we dont operate, that are most likely to be affected, but we will continue to monitor this closely.
14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 i u t c a e n j t i b f i o e d s s e n i s u B E x d i s e t r i o n t g i n c o o m n t r e o c l s n a a s m s r e o s f s r e e P d operational risks Recruitment and retention inability to source milk Risk area and potential impact Risk area and potential impact We need to retain high quality employees to provide customers and consumers with safe, high quality products and services.
Without milk we would not have a business.
Restricted milk supply due to economic factors, weather, fuel availability or an epidemic which affects mitigating controls dairy cows could restrict milk supply.
This in turn could lead to lower sales and profits.
Consumer confidence in dairy products could also be adversely We carry out rigorous selection procedures and benchmark pay and benefits affected.
to ensure we can attract and retain the best people.
We have a wide bonus scheme and a range of other incentives to reward good performance.
Our mitigating controls Long TermAlignment Planaligns the interest of management to shareholders and helps to retain key senior employees.
There is a performance review We invest significant resources in maintaining strong relationships with and talent management scheme to identify and develop our own people.
To our milk suppliers by attending forums and discussing current issues and encourage two-way communications with employees we invite themall to pressures that affect both the farms and our business.
The majority of our attend an annualroadshow at which they are encouraged to ask questions milk comes directly from farms on contracts that include a notice period of important to them.
We undertake regular surveys to monitor the relationship between three months and one year.
Our experienced milk procurement with our employees and their engagement.
team understand milk production and are alert to changes in supply.
We aim to pay a fair, market related milk price and closely monitor the milk price we Financial risks pay to suppliers in order to ensure we can purchase the right quantity of milk to meet demand forecasts and have established procedures for allocating Pension scheme milk between our businesses if a short term shortfall in supply does arise.
We have contingency plans established for major incidents and work closely with Risk area and potential impact DEFRA and industry bodies to ensure these are appropriate.
These plans are regularly tested and reviewed with the Management Board.
Despite the action we have taken to reduce the risks associated with our pension scheme, including closing the scheme to future accrual in 2010 and buying insurance to meet the liabilities associated with many of our retired Failure of a key supplier members in 2008 and 2009, the deficit could continue to increase and we Risk area and potential impact may then have to increase our contributions.
We are dependent on key suppliers and could lose sales and face financial mitigating controls penalties from customers if suppliers failure leaves us unable to supply.
Failure of key information technology suppliers could adversely affect our We continue to work closely with the Trustee of the Pension Fund to improve financial systems.
the Funds financial position at an acceptable cash cost to the business.
Our one-off cash contribution of 40 million to the Pension Fund in April 2013 reduces the risk of the deficit increasing.
mitigating controls Our purchasing team regularly monitors suppliers ability to supply and puts Legal and compliance risks in place alternative arrangements, including dual purchasing, if appropriate.
We have taken specific actions to reduce our dependency on information Risk area and potential impact technology suppliers.
Our sector is subject to a number of complex statutory requirements.
There is a risk of fines or lawsuits and reputational damage if we fail to comply.
other operational risks Risk area and potential impact mitigating controls An accident, product contamination, the failure of equipment or systems or We have a strong in-house legal function supported by external advisers.
deliberate act could disrupt production, affect food safety, cause injury, and or We have undertaken Group-wide training in respect of competition law and cause reputational damage with adverse consequences.
We are also reliant on actively monitor and adjust to on-going legal and regulatory changes.
We information technology and exposed to losses in the event that systems fail.
have a Business Conduct Policy, and a programme designed to ensure that all relevant employees understand what is and is not permissible under the mitigating controls UK Bribery Act.
Dairy Crest takes product quality very seriously and has rigorous quality major project risk controls in place to minimise potential risks.
Plans are maintained to respond quickly to any product quality concerns and minimise any impact to the Risk area and potential impact Group.
Our business is also committed to the health and safety of all our employees and maintains systems aimed at ensuring everyone is able to To remain competitive we periodically undertake major transformational complete their work safely.
All of our manufacturing sites have a trained projects following strategic reviews.
Successful execution of these projects engineering resource, are supported by our major equipment suppliers and is often key to delivering strategic objectives.
At the same time we have to hold appropriate stocks of spare parts.
They also all have fire protection ensure that major projects do not divert from the on-going day-to-day delivery systems and regular fire drills.
Our information technology systems are of products and services to our customers.
regularly backed up and duplicated in the majority of areas.
We have procedures in place to help us deal with major incidents and insurance cover mitigating controls for property damage and business interruption risks.
We have a good track record of managing projects and use experienced and People risks appropriately skilled senior managers to lead these.
Supervisory governance structures are also put in place to help successful delivery.
We are aware that Disease epidemic too much change concentrated in too short a timescale can be detrimental and manage this by ensuring key project resource is full time with appropriate Risk area and potential impact backfilling and use of third parties.
A disease epidemic such as swine flu could adversely affect the health of our employees and prevent them working, leaving us unable to service customers.
mitigating controls Contingency plans which include working with industry bodies are in place for known epidemic risks.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 15 Strategic report 16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 thinking differently
