S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T P R I N C I P A L R I S K S A N D U N C E R T A I N T I E S 1 2 Risk Impact Examples of mitigation Change Continuing adverse A decline in sales on discretionary The board conducts strategic business reviews which economic conditions purchases leading to a reduction ensure that management is focused on key priorities and inprofit cost control.
These reviews also focus on the four pillars may have a material ofthe Groups strategy to build a leading international, adverse effect on This is a decreasing risk because the multi-channel brand and the operational effectiveness Debenhams results gap between inflation and wage ofthe processes and systems which link the pillars of growth has started to narrow.
However the consumer environment remains volatile and we remain cautious about the outlook Debenhams business Adverse effect on inventory Debenhams product and brand strategy involves selling could be impacted as andprofit a diverse mix of products in order to reduce reliance on those that may be weather dependent.
To help mitigate a resultof weak sales the impact of this risk, should it occur, management during peak selling would review the benefits of strengthening both planned seasons or extreme and tactical promotional or marketing activity in order to orunseasonal drive sales.
weatherconditions Theft of customer Negative effect on reputation Steering groups exist for both data protection and data or breach of leading to loss of stakeholder trust PCIstandards which review andreport on compliance and confidence, with subsequent levels.
Debenhams utilises external specialists as payment card impact on profitability as well as required to assist in achieving its compliance goals, with industrystandards diverting financial and management compliance levels versus the PCI standard monitored by could adversely resources from more beneficial uses management and reported to theAudit Committee.
affectDebenhams Anumber of security tools are employed to protect business operations, This is a decreasing risk because of data, including encryption, intruderdetection and reputation and results the ongoing work and progress dataloss prevention.
made around payment card industry PCI compliance Debenhams business Place pressure on our pricing Debenhams product and brand strategy gives customers could be impacted as strategy, margins and profitability a unique, differentiated and exclusive choice of brands, products and categories within a good better best pricing a result of failing to Divert financial and management architecture.
An understanding of customers and their compete effectively resources from more beneficial uses needs is developed by listening to their views, market intelligence and reviewing key performance indicators, which ensures that pricing is competitive and promotional activity is appropriate.
Debenhams continues to invest additional resources in customer analytics and insight using tools such as the single customer view.
A number of initiatives have been put in place to address the causes of lower than expected sales in the first half of the year and to improve competitiveness.
More details canbe found in the Chief Executives report starting on page 10.
In addition, a robust systems infrastructure is required to support the delivery of our strategic objectives.
Tosupport the efficient and effective delivery of strategic andbusiness critical projects, a business change roadmap has been developed, the governance framework has beenenhanced and a series of projects are under way tostrengthen business continuity to maintain and protectperformance.
1 2 Ranked based on overall risk to the business.
Change in severity and or likelihood of risk during course of 2014.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 28 1 2 Risk Impact Examples of mitigation Change Debenhams business Sales will be lower, market share will Delivering a compelling customer proposition is at the heart may suffer if it is be reduced and may be forced to of Debenhams strategy.
In developing our product and rely on additional markdowns or brand strategy, we take into consideration market, trend and unable to predict promotional sales to dispose of customer research to help us predict likely demand for our accurately or fulfil excess or slow-moving inventory or products and services.
We continue to invest in our product customer preferences may experience inventory shortfalls and brand strategy to ensure it remains competitive.
We are or demand through on popular merchandise also investing in buying and merchandising systems competitive, capability to achieve greater alignment across all sales economic and Channel shifts away from stores channels and geographies.
profitable channels toonline could lead to higher operational costs within the online A number of specific actions are being taken to address channel and lower profitability, or theissues of the channel shift.
These include: even impairment, of store assets Building a more competitive and economic multiAny of the above could have a channel business to drive sales, increase the recovery material adverse effect on of fulfilment costs and reduce the cost per unit of Debenhams business, financial fulfilment.
To this end, a range of competitive delivery condition or profitability options has been introduced.
Driving a better return on UK store assets through theintroduction of additional products, brand and services as well as ensuring stores are fully configured for multi-channel shopping.
Debenhams fosters mutually beneficial relationships with Factors influencing Any of the risks associated with its suppliers.
Both parties work towards the objective of thesustainability of doing business in international optimising sustainable fulfilment and costs, which is markets and or importing the supply chain measured regularly by management through key merchandise from these regions performance indicators.
You can read more about how could place pressure on margins and we build relationships with our suppliers on page 20. profitability or require the Group to divert financial and management Debenhams continues to develop its supplier base to resources from more beneficial uses mitigate the potential of cost price inflation without This is a decreasing risk as compromising the quality of its products.
In addition, Debenhams is developing multiple thesourcing division has been strengthened to include sourcing routes to ensure that additional expertise which assists with sourcing pricing remains competitive and decisions, production consolidation and lead time that demand can be supplied reduction, amongst other things.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 29 S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T P R IN C IP A L R I S K S A N D U N C E R T A IN T IE S C O N T IN U E D 1 2 Risk Impact Examples of mitigation Change Any disruption or Any of the following factors could In order to minimise the impact of any third party other adverse event impact or reduce profitability: relationship or performance issues, Debenhams objectives are to: maintain mutually beneficial third party affecting Debenhams Costs associated with the transfer relationships by ensuring strategies are aligned: have relationship with of the operations or the potential appropriate, unambiguous contracts in place: ensure anyof its major of extra operational cost from a third parties are financially robust: and have contingency suppliers, franchise new provider plans in place in the event of a failure eg conversion of partners, store card Changes in exclusivity space to own bought for concessionaire failure, multiple providers, designers, arrangements with designers or sourcing routes for supplier failure, shipment embargos concessionaires, or any decline in their popularity for franchise failure.
outsourcing partners The loss of a number of Policies, controls and financial support behind important concession or receivables are in place to help mitigate the risk of franchise partners franchise partner failure.
Adverse events within the supply Management is closely monitoring any potential impact chain could restrict the availability on our Russian franchise market as a result of the or significantly increase the cost situation within Ukraine.
of goods Credit insurance difficulties for a significant number of suppliers could lead to a detrimental variation of terms or alternative suppliers used to source some goods This is an increasing risk based on unpredictable instability of various territories around the world Any events that Unfavourable publicity concerning Ethical sourcing, legislative change and corporate Debenhams, its ethical trading responsibility matters are key areas of focus for the negatively impact policies, its business policies sustainability committee.
To ensure that Debenhams thereputation of, including health and safety, its hasthe most current information available, it is a member orvalue associated corporate responsibility practices, of relevant industry bodies that provide awareness of with, Debenhams any of its brands or products, its changes to standards and legislation.
All suppliers are brand could adversely supply chain practices or any of its expected to adhere to Debenhams own supplier code affect its business franchisees or manufacturers or a ofconduct, which is underpinned by Debenhams robust substantial erosion in the reputation policy on compliance which includes a real focus on social of, or value associated with, the and ethical standards.
Debenhams brand may lead to A reliance on third party suppliers and franchisees, the aloss of stakeholder trust and challenges of the current economic environment and the confidence and could have a complexity of the new and existing legislation make this material adverse effect on anongoing risk which Debenhams and its suppliers and Debenhams ability to attract and franchisees have to manage.
retain third party brands, suppliers, An executive health and safety committee exists to review designers, concessions and compliance with legal and regulatory obligations and a franchisees, which could number of participants are members of various relevant consequently impact Debenhams industry bodies.
The committee receives input from business, financial condition specialist teams which focus on discrete aspects.
These orprofitability include health and safety, building services, insurance and retail operations.
To support compliance and to maintain high operational standards, health and safety awareness programmes are in place and each site has its own health and safety committee.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 30 1 2 Risk Impact Examples of mitigation Change The business continuity management committee is Factors outside Unable to continue operations comprised of senior executives and works to a framework Debenhams control, smoothly in the event of a major based on the most recent international standard.
The key incident which may have an adverse such as damage or objectives of this committee are to ensure that potential effect on inventory and profitability interruptions due threats to the organisation and the impacts that those and divert financial and management tooperational threats might cause have been identified, that a resources from more beneficial uses.
disruption, natural framework to build organisational resilience to known Any terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, disaster, pandemics, threats is in place and that the framework has the social unrest or other geopolitical terrorist activity, capability to deliver an effective response to safeguard uncertainty could result in a strikes or riots may the Group.
significant reduction in consumer have a material confidence and spending levels A business continuity policy, describing roles and adverse effect on Risks associated with systems failure, responsibilities across the Group, ensures that an itsresults external attack of systems ordata effective framework is in place to enable the recovery inaccuracy may also significantly and continuation of normal business operations as soon damage ability to manage as possible in the event of any disruptive incidents.
Key information technology systems business systems are managed and monitored by orcould cause inappropriate specialist teams.
decisions to be made using wrong Insurance policies have been placed as appropriate to or ambiguous information minimise the impact of specific risks.
This is an increasing risk based on unpredictable instability of various territories around the world and the increased threat level within the UK Debenhams business Adverse effect on inventory and Debenhams has specialist accounting, taxation, may be materially profitability and will divert financial information systems and legal and secretariat teams and and management resources from is also a member of key industry bodies which provide adversely affected more beneficial uses awareness of changes to standards and legislation.
bychanges to, or a breach by the Group Forums exist to focus on specific areas of legislation, and of, laws or regulations specific business policies and procedures are in place to ensure roles and responsibilities are understood across the Group.
Factors outside Place pressure on margin and A key objective of the energy committee is to control Debenhams control, profitability, will also divert financial energy usage, including the impact of the Carbon and management resources from Reduction Commitment scheme.
An energy hedging such as increases in more beneficial uses policy is in place to provide a high degree of cost certainty energy or fuel costs in the short term.
may have an adverse This is an increasing risk due to the effect on its results current situation in Ukraine and management is currently monitoring energy costs even more closely Acts of fraud, theft Negative effect on reputation, In order to mitigate fraud across all channels in which and industrial andwill divert financial and Debenhams operates, a number of preventative management resources from more measures are in place.
These include: accounting policies espionage could beneficial uses, reducing and procedures to ensure, for example, that the retail adversely affect profitability methodology for valuing stock remains appropriate: Debenhams business systems access restrictions: expenditure authorisation operations, reputation levels: whistleblowing and anti-bribery and corruption and results policies and a code of business conduct, all of which provide employees with guidelines on how to escalate an issue confidentially.
A variety of monitoring mechanisms are used to identify fraudulent activity including data mining across point of sale and head office functions.
As part of the organisation-wide risk assessment, individual managers sign an anti-fraud, bribery and corruption declaration.
Issues identified are investigated and reported to the Audit Committee.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 31 In this section 34 Financial review P E R F OR M A NC E Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 32 P E R F OR M A NC E Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 33
