S d E r a T o B 46 How the Business Manages Risk Risk Agenda Effective risk management is key to the achievement of our business strategy.
In Identify October 2013 the Board commenced a review of the Groups risk management process in order to assess whether there was scope for improvement.
Deloitte LLP were retained to assist with the review, which formed part of their wider remit to assist in the review of the Groups internal financial controls.
More detail in relation to this review can be found on pages 81 Internal Control to 82 of the Audit Committee Report.
Framework Monitor Assess The review confirmed that, overall, the risk management process was appropriate for the size of the Group and provided validation of the existing risks.
However, the following areas of improvement were suggested: ownership of the risks should be created at SET level: amendments to both the process and documentation, including Mitigate the introduction of half-yearly risk interviews with the SET: and the proposed appointment of the Risk Framework Internal Audit Function should The SET is now a pivotal platform responsible for the overall risk framework.
It drives encompass a risk assurance remit.
the identification of risks, establishes the owners of each of those risks and ensures It is considered by the Board that these that they are correctly mitigated and monitored.
The SET reports the risks to the changes to the current risk system and Board.
Each SET member owns one or more of the risks and is scheduled to attend framework will ensure that: Board meetings during the course of the financial year to conduct a detailed review of their risks.
For the purpose of the year end disclosure each SET member has met with the SET provides a platform for the Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary to discuss their risks and controls.
reviewing and assessing risk from both a bottom up and top down level, and The discussions have focused on a number of areas including: acts as a link between the Board and the business units ensuring that risk understanding the possible root causes of the risk: management is embedded within the reviewing what controls are currently in place: and business: assessing whether additional controls should be added in order to ensure that the any risks identified in relation to the risk is appropriately mitigated.
achievement of the Group strategy are The SET will also ensure that ongoing monitoring is embedded in their business units correctly captured and monitored: or function.
the risk appetite is correctly assessed and understood: and Board there is a strong governance Oversight of the Groups risk Top Down management and internal controls framework clearly linking our risk management and internal controls framework.
For information on the Audit Committee Annual validation of the risk reporting process Internal Control Framework see pages 76 to 77.
Senior Executive Team Owners of the risk management process and responsible for embedding risk management into business units Bottom Up Business Units Identication, mitigation and monitoring of risks Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A A u d i s t t i C n U o m s s m e i n t i t s e u e B Strategic Report Our Performance 47 The SET has identified and agreed key risks with the Board.
Of these, a number are deemed to be generic risks facing every business including failure to comply with financial reporting regulation, IT failure and non-compliance with legislation.
The table below therefore details the eight principal risks which are bespoke to our business and provides information on: how they link to the Group strategy: how they could potentially impact the business: and what controls have been put in place to mitigate them.
Key of trend compared No Change Increased Risk Reduced Risk to prior year: Link to Strategy Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Trend Competitor Risk: Revenues and margins may be We focus on lifecycle management a b c Competitor products launched materially adversely affected upon the strategies of our key products to ensure against one of our leading brands e. g. expiry or early loss of patents, or by that our products fulfil evolving customer generics or superior product profile.
generic entrants competitors into the requirements.
market for one of our leading brands.
We depend on data exclusivity periods Product patents are monitored and or patents to have exclusive marketing Costs may increase due to defensive consideration is given to the formulation rights for some of our products.
of a defensive strategy towards the end Although we maintain a broad portfolio of the patent life or the data exclusivity of products, we recognise that our period.
unique products, like Vetoryl and We monitor market activity so that prior Felimazole, have built a market which to competitor products being launched, may be attractive to competitors.
a response strategy can be established We need to ensure that, should and executed by our marketing team.
competitors enter the market, we This defence plan is intended to create additional unique selling points minimise competitor impact.
which allow us to maintain our market share.
Product Development Risk: A succession of clinical trial failures Potential new development candidates Failure to deliver major products could adversely affect our ability to are assessed from a commercial, either due to pipeline delays or newly deliver shareholder expectations.
financial and scientific perspective launched products not meeting by a multi-functional team to allow Our reputation and relationship, not revenue expectations.
senior management to make go no go only with our shareholders, but also decisions.
Delivery of our pipeline is key to the with veterinarians, could be damaged.
achievement of our strategy and our The pipeline is discussed regularly by Our positioning in the market may be future success.
We commit substantial senior management, including the Chief affected and could reduce our leading resources to development.
However, Executive Officer and Chief Financial position in key therapeutic areas.
we may be unable to develop or Officer.
Regular updates are also Reduced revenue and profitability may get new products approved.
It may provided to the Board.
mean we are unable to recoup the costs also be difficult to predict whether Each development project is managed incurred in developing and launching newly launched products will meet by a dedicated clinical project manager the product, resulting in impairment of commercial expectations.
who chairs a monthly project team intangible assets.
Before major costly efficacy studies are initiated, smaller proof of concept studies are conducted to assess the effects of the drug on the target species and for the target indication.
In respect of all new product launches a detailed marketing plan is established and progress against that plan is regularly monitored.
The Group ensures that it has a detailed market knowledge and retains close contact with customers through its management and sales teams which are consistently trained to a high standard.
com Stock code: Stock code: DPH DPH 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A 48 How the Business Manages Risk continued Link to Strategy Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Trend Regulatory Risk: Delays in regulatory reviews and The Group strives to exceed regulatory a b c Failure to meet regulatory approvals could impact the timing of requirements and ensures that its requirements.
a product launch and have a material employees have detailed experience effect on sales and margins.
and knowledge of the regulations.
We perform our business in a highly regulated environment, not only from a Any changes made to the Manufacturing and PDRA have manufacturing perspective but also in manufacturing, distribution, marketing established quality systems and respect of product approvals.
Failure and safety surveillance processes of standard operating procedures in place.
to adhere to, or maintain, regulatory our products may require additional Regular contact is maintained with all standards could ultimately affect our regulatory approvals, resulting in relevant regulatory bodies in order to manufacturing capability and our ability additional costs and or disruption.
build and strengthen relationships and to deliver products to market on time.
Failure to achieve regulatory ensure good communication lines.
requirements may result in operational The regulatory and legal teams remain closures which in turn increases updated in respect of changes with a expenditure and delays to production.
view to ensuring that the business is equipped to deal with and adhere to such changes.
Where changes are identified which could affect our ability to market and sell any of our products, a response team is created in order to mitigate the risk.
External consultants are utilised to audit our manufacturing quality systems.
Regulatory Risk: Reduction in sales of our antimicrobial Regular contact is made with all a c b Continuing pressure on reducing product range.
relevant veterinary authorities to antibiotic use.
ensure that we have a comprehensive Our reputation could be adversely understanding of regulatory changes.
The issue of the potential transfer of impacted if we do not respond increased antibacterial resistance from appropriately to government pressure.
We strive to develop new products food producing animals to humans that minimise antimicrobial resistance is subject to regulatory discussions.
In some countries this has led to government recommendations on reducing the use of antibiotics in food producing animals.
Reliance On Third Parties Risk: This may lead to significant delays The performance of our suppliers is a b c Failure of a major supplier resulting and or difficulties in obtaining goods monitored.
As a result, if we identify a in loss of raw materials or product and services on commercially potential issue, we source promptly from supply or delay in clinical trials.
acceptable terms potentially increasing either an identified alternative supplier or the cost of production.
Where a manufacturing We rely on third parties for the supply transfer is required, stock is built up in of all our raw materials.
Failure to Disruption in production may result order to avoid mitigate an out of stock supply these raw materials will affect in product shortages and significant situation.
our manufacturing and development delays, which may lead to lost sales.
It is important that we In respect of DPM, a second sourcing manage our stock levels of key raw project for key materials has established materials and are able quickly to our approach for all components.
In identify and obtain materials from a addition the top ten Group products second source.
are continually risk assessed in order to identify the key suppliers of materials or finished products.
All contracts with suppliers are reviewed from both a commercial and legal perspective to ensure that assignment of the contract is allowed should there be a change of control of either of the contracting parties.
Risk mitigation strategies are in place such as maintenance of buffer stocks and dual sourcing.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A Strategic Report Our Performance 49 Link to Strategy Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Trend Reliance On Third Parties Risk: Loss of a key customer can impact Robust supply agreements are in place a b c Loss of key third party customers manufacturing revenues and lead to with each of our key customers and are from DPM.
an increase in the cost of goods of the regularly reviewed.
Contract manufacturing represents Close, regular contact is maintained approximately 9% of Group revenues through the sales director with key and 46% of our manufacturing volume.
customers Contract manufacturing is a significant Monthly service level monitoring and part of our revenue.
We have an experienced sales team which focuses on bringing in new customers.
People Risk: Loss of knowledge, skills and Succession planning is driven by the a b c Failure to have robust succession experience could erode our competitive Nomination Committee and the Group plans in place leading to gaps in advantage.
knowledge and experience in key roles Inability to attract and retain key Where deemed necessary Key Man in the business.
personnel may weaken succession Insurance is in place.
We pride ourselves on the low turnover planning and could have an adverse A new HR plan is being implemented to of staff in senior and other key positions.
strengthen our talent management and However we must ensure that we succession planning.
have plans in place should we lose key Remuneration packages are reviewed personnel on whose capabilities we on an annual basis in order to ensure depend.
that the Group can continue to retain, incentivise and motivate its employees.
People Risk: Implementation of our strategy may The Group HR Director is in the process a b c Risk of failure to adequately resource be delayed and we may not meet of commencing a capability study in the business to meet strategic shareholders expectations order to ensure that we have the correct ambitions e. g. knowledge and level of skill, knowledge and experience We have failed to identify potential investment.
internally to deliver our strategic goals, capability gaps.
and to identify where to attract and We have a clear focus on our four We may be unable successfully to recruit skills if they are not already strategic growth drivers.
expands we need to ensure that we Resources are too stretched, leading to have the necessary skills to execute our potential personnel issues.
strategy and that we allocate sufficient resources where required.
com Stock code: DPH 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A
