s e v i t c e j b o c i g e t a r t S s e v i t c e j b Dignity plc 26 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report How we manage risk Principal risks and uncertainties This section highlights the principal risks affecting the We are committed to effective risk Group, together with the key mitigating activities in place management which supports the to manage those risks.
achievement of our strategic objectives Our approach to risk management The Group manages the operational and financial risks The Board recognises it is responsible for the Groups system described through a combination of regular Board reports of internal control and risk management, which is designed and also monthly and weekly management information that to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve is reviewed by the Executive Directors.
business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Risk process A formal ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and Our risk process is designed to identify, evaluate and manage managing the significant risks faced by the Group was in both our operational and financial risks.
place for the period and in place up to the date the Corporate Governance report was signed and approved for the Annual Risk Governance Report and Accounts 2014.
This process was in place at the The full risk register is considered and readopted every date of approval of the Annual Report and is in accordance six months by the Audit Committee.
IDENTIFY & ANALYSE Risks and impact identified Risks mapped to controls currently in place Residual risks prioritised for mitigation Confirmed with the Board Risk management process Remedial action plans implemented Board member accountable IMPLEMENT ACTION Existing control enforced Controls identified Suggested action plans agreed and tested Options for controls identified and costed Remedial action plans implemented Plans approved by the Board Board member accountable Links See Our strategy and business model: p. 10 and p. 11 See Our KPIs: p. 12 to p. 14 See Governance: p. 34 to p. 61 o c i g e t a r t S s e v i t c e j b o c i g e t a r t S Overview Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 27 Strategic report Key and link to strategic objective How we align risks to strategy Continue to prioritise excellent client service which we believe will Our principal risks and uncertainties focus on 1 lead to organic growth.
matters that could have a direct impact on our key strategic objectives.
2 Control our costs without compromising the quality of our service.
Expand our funeral and crematoria portfolios.
3 Key: Gain new clients through the sale of pre-arranged funeral plans.
4 Risk exposure increased Increase our returns through efficient capital management.
5 Risk exposure decreased No significant change Operational risk management Strategic Risk and impact Mitigating activities 2014 Commentary Change objective link Significant reduction in the death rate The profile of deaths has historically followed The number of deaths in 2014 1 3 5 a similar profile to that predicted by the ONS, is consistent with the ONS There is a risk that the number of deaths in giving the Group the ability to plan its business medium term view.
a direct result on the financial performance of See Market overview: both the funeral and crematoria divisions.
p. 08 and p. 09 Nationwide adverse publicity This risk is addressed by ensuring appropriate There have been no such 1 3 4 5 policies and procedures are in place, which events in the period.
Nationwide adverse publicity for Dignity could are designed to ensure excellent client service.
result in a significant reduction in the number See The client survey These policies and procedures retain flexibility of funerals or cremations performed in any performance: p. 14 for the business to serve families in accordance financial period.
This would have a direct result with local traditions.
on the financial performance of that division.
1 5 Ability to increase average revenues The Group believes that its focus on excellent Average revenues were per funeral or cremation client service helps to mitigate this risk.
increased in line with the Boards expectations.
Operating profit growth is in part attributable to the Groups ability to increase the average See Operating review: revenue per funeral or cremation.
There can be p. 16 to p. 21 no guarantee that future average revenues per funeral or cremation will be maintained or increased.
1 5 Significant reduction in market share The Group believes that this risk is mitigated Changes in market share were for funeral operations by reputation and in line with the Boards It is possible that other external factors, recommendation being a key driver to the expectations.
such as new competitors, could result in a choice of funeral director being used and significant reduction in market share within See Operating review: for crematoria operations is mitigated by funeral or crematoria operations.
This would p. 16 to p. 21 difficulties associated with building new have a direct result on the financial crematoria.
Demographic shifts in population In such situations, Dignity would seek to There have been no material 1 3 5 follow the population shift.
changes, with satellites being There can be no assurance that demographic opened and businesses shifts in population will not lead to a reduced acquired in appropriate areas.
demand for funeral services in areas where Dignity operates.
See Operating review: p. 16 to p. 21 Competition There are barriers to entry in the funerals No major changes noted.
1 3 4 5 services market due to the importance Denials of planning applications The UK funeral services market and crematoria of established local reputation and in the for crematoria in the period market is currently very fragmented.
crematoria market due to the need to obtain demonstrate the barriers There can be no assurance that there will not planning approval for new crematoria and to entry.
be further consolidation in the industry or that the cost of developing new crematoria.
See Operating review: increased competition in the industry, whether There are a number of potential affinity p. 16 to p. 21 in the form of intensified price competition, partners who could replace existing ones service competition, over capacity or otherwise, or add to existing relationships.
Evidence would not lead to an erosion of the Groups suggests that such partnerships can and market share, average revenues or costs and are being developed.
consequently a reduction in its profitability.
The retention of affinity partners who sell the Groups pre-arranged funeral plans is essential to the long-term development of the prearranged funeral plan division.
The loss of an affinity partner could lead to a reduction in the amount of profit recognised in that division at the time of sale.
Failure to replenish or increase the bank of pre-arranged funeral plans could affect market share of the funeral division in the longer-term.
Dignity plc 28 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report How the Group finances its operations Principal risks and uncertainties continued The Group finances its operations by a mixture of shareholders funds, Secured Notes and bank borrowings.
This approach seeks to minimise financing costs and generate optimum shareholder value through efficient leveraging of the Groups balance sheet, which is made possible by the stable and predictable cashgenerative nature of the business.
It is not the Groups policy to actively trade in derivatives.
Operational risk management continued 2014 Commentary Strategic Risk and impact Mitigating activities Change objective link Taxes There are currently specific exemptions No significant changes noted 1 5 under European legislation for the UK on in the period.
There can be no assurance that changes will the VAT treatment of funerals.
Any change not be made to UK taxes, such as VAT.
VAT is would apply to the industry as a whole and not currently chargeable on the majority of the not just the Group.
The introduction of such a tax could therefore significantly increase the cost to clients of the Groups services.
Regulation of pre-arranged funeral plans Any changes would apply to the industry No significant changes noted 4 5 as a whole and not just the Group.
Pre-arranged funeral plans are not a regulated product, but are subject to a specific financial See Market overview: services exemption.
Changes to the basis of p. 08 and p. 09 any regulation could affect the Groups opportunity to sell pre-arranged funeral plans in the future or could result in the Group not being able to draw down the current level of market allowances, which would have a direct impact on the profitability of the pre-arranged funeral plan division.
The latest actuarial valuation Changes in the funding of the pre-arranged There is considerable regulation around 4 5 of the pre-arranged funeral funeral plan business insurance companies which is designed, plan trusts confirmed that amongst other things, to ensure that the The Group has given commitments to prethe Trusts continue to have insurance companies meet their obligations.
arranged funeral plan members to provide sufficient assets to meet certain funeral services in the future.
The Trusts hold assets with the objective of their liabilities.
achieving returns slightly in excess of inflation.
Funding for these plans is reliant on either Historically, these assets have been heavily See Note 29 insurance companies paying the amounts weighted towards gilts and corporate bonds.
owed or the pre-arranged funeral plan trusts The Trustees, who operate independently of having sufficient assets to meet their liabilities the Group, have advised that they are in the future.
implementing a new investment strategy If this is not the case, then the Group may covering a wider range of assets classes.
receive a lower amount per funeral than The new strategy is intended to enhance expected and thus generate lower profits.
investment returns for a similar level of risk, albeit with greater volatility.
Financial risk management Strategic 2014 Commentary Change Risk and impact Mitigating activities objective link Financial Covenant under the Secured Notes The nature of the Groups debt means The restructuring of the 5 that the denominator is now fixed unless Groups debt obligations The Groups Secured Notes requires EBITDA further Secured Notes are issued in the provides greater headroom to total debt service to be above 1.5 times.
This means that the covenant against the financial covenant If this financial covenant is not achieved, then headroom will change proportionately as the annual debt service this may lead to an Event of Default under with changes in EBITDA.
obligation is approximately the terms of the Secured Notes, which could 15 per cent lower.
result in the Security Trustee taking control of the securitisation group on behalf of the See Financial review: Secured Noteholders.
p. 22 to p. 25 In addition, the Group is required to achieve a more stringent ratio of 1.85 times for the same test in order to be permitted to transfer excess cash from the securitisation group to Dignity plc.
If this stricter test is not achieved, then the Groups ability to pay dividends would be impacted.
