34 DIPLOMA PLC Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the Groups annual Finally, plans and processes are established which are designed to planning cycle and market specific risks are evaluated as part of the control each risk and minimise its potential impact.
The risk assessments annual budgeting process.
from each of the operating businesses are reviewed with the Executive Directors and a consolidated risk assessment is reviewed by the Board.
Each operating business is required each year to identify and document the significant strategic, operational, financial and accounting risks The principal risks and uncertainties which are currently judged to have facing the business.
For each significant risk, a number of scenarios are the largest potential impact on the Groups long term performance are mapped out and an assessment is made of the likelihood and impact of set out below.
There have been no significant changes to these risks and each risk scenario.
uncertainties, or their potential impact on the Group, since last year.
Risk: Strategic Downturn in major markets Adverse changes in the major markets in which the businesses operate The businesses offer specialised products and services: this offers can have a significant impact on performance.
The effects will either be a degree of protection against customers quickly switching seen in terms of slowing revenue growth, due to reduced or delayed business to achieve a better price.
demand for products and services, or margin pressures due to A high proportion of the Groups revenues comprise consumable increasedcompetition.
products which are purchased as part of customers operating expenditure, rather than through capital budgets.
A number of characteristics of the Groups businesses moderate the In many cases the products are used in repair, maintenance and impact of economic and business cycles on the Group as a whole: refurbishment applications, rather than original equipment The Groups businesses operate in three different Sectors with different manufacture.
cyclical characteristics and across a number ofgeographic markets.
Mitigation The businesses identify key market drivers and monitor the trends Changes to cost levels and inventories can then be made in a and forecasts, as well as maintaining close relationships with key measured way to mitigate the effects.
customers who may give an early warning of slowing demand.
Significant global events are closely monitored to determine any potential impact on key markets.
Loss of key supplier s For manufacturer-branded products, there are risks to the business if a Currently no single supplier represents more than 10% of Group major supplier decides to cancel a distribution agreement or if the supplier revenue and only five single suppliers represent more than 2% each is acquired by a company which has its own distribution channels in the of Group revenue.
There is also the risk of a supplier taking away exclusivity and either setting up direct operations or appointing another distributor.
Relationships with suppliers have normally been built up over many years and a strong degree of interdependence has been established.
In times of rapid economic expansion in activity, such as after a global The average length of the principal supplier relationships in each recession, there is also a risk that the lead times to supply key product ofthe Sectors is over ten years.
The strength of the relationship with each supplier and the volume of activity generally ensures continuity of supply, whenthere is shortage of product.
Mitigation Actions to mitigate the risks include: Regular review of inventory levels.
Long term, multi-year exclusive contracts signed with suppliers with Bundling and kitting of products and provision of added change of control clauses, where possible, included in contracts for valueservices.
protection or compensation in the event of acquisition.
Periodic research of alternative suppliers as part of Collaborative projects undertaken and relationships maintained with contingencyplanning.
individuals at many levels of the supplier organisation, together with regular review meetings and adherence to contractual terms.
DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 35 Risk: Strategic Loss of major customer s The loss of one or more major customers can be a material risk.
The nature of the Groups businesses is such that there is not ahigh level of dependence on any individual customers and no single customer represents more than 5% of Sector revenue or more than 2% of Group revenue.
Mitigation Specific large customers are important to individual operating businesses In addition to providing high levels of customer service, close and a high level of effort is invested in ensuring that these customers are integration is established where possible with customers systems retained and encouraged not to switch to another supplier.
Product liability There is a risk that products supplied by a Group business may However, if a legal claim is made it will typically draw in our business as failinservice, which could lead to a claim under product liability.
The a party to the claim and the business may be exposed to legal costs and businesses, in their Terms and Conditions of sale with customers, will potential damages if the claim succeeds and the supplier fails to meet typically mirror the Terms and Conditions of purchase from the suppliers.
its liabilities for whatever reason.
Product liability insurance can be In this way the liability can be limited and subrogated to the supplier.
limited in terms of its scope of insurable events, such as product recall.
Mitigation Technically qualified personnel and control systems are inplace to ensure The Groups businesses may also elect not to supply products if they products meet quality requirements.
The Groups businesses are required are not fully confident that the products will meet the demands of the to undertake product risk assessments and comprehensive Supplier operating environment.
TheGroup has also established Group-wide product liability insurance which provides worldwide The Groups businesses continue to invest in new testing equipment: umbrella insurance coverof 20m in allSectors.
employees have also undergone product liability training during the year and are regularly reviewed to demonstrate compliance with Group policies and procedures relating to product liability.
Loss of key personnel The success of the Group is built upon strong, self-standing management As set out on page 38, the average length of service for all personnel teams in the operating businesses, committed tothe success of their in the Group is over six years.
As a result, the loss of key personnel can have a significant impact on performance, at least for atime.
Mitigation Contractual terms such as notice periods and non-compete clauses can Establishing management development programmes to ensure mitigate the risk in the short term.
However, more successful initiatives abroad base of talented managers.
focus on ensuring a challenging work environment with appropriate Offering a balanced and competitive compensation package reward systems.
The Group places very high importance on planning the with a combination of salary, annual bonus and long term cash development, motivation and reward for key managers in the operating incentive plans targeted at the individual business level.
businesses including: Giving the freedom, encouragement, financial resources and Ensuring a challenging working environment where managers feel strategic support for managers topursue ambitious growth plans.
they have control over, and responsibility for their businesses.
36 DIPLOMA PLC Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk: Operational Major damage to premises The Groups businesses mostly operate from combined office warehouse However, the Group has not suffered any major damage topremises facilities which are dedicated to each business and not shared with other in recent years and in Clearwater, Florida there hasbeen no significant Group businesses.
hurricane activity for at least the last fiveyears.
Major damage to the facilities from fire, malicious damage or natural disaster would impact a business for a period until the damage is repaired or alternative facilities have been established.
Mitigation The business where the risk is greatest is Hercules in Clearwater, Florida The other businesses have also developed plans in the event of which is most at risk from an environmental disaster caused by a incidents, including fire and security alarms and regular fire drills.
The building structure has been designed to Insurance policies are also in place including property, contents and withstand 150mph winds, electricity generators have been installed business interruption cover which would mitigate the financial impact.
on site and a specific disaster plan has been drawn up and is regularly reviewed.
However, the priority in such an event is to become fully operational as quickly as possible so as to minimise disruption to customers.
Plans Contingency plans include: to ensure a quick and orderly recovery have been developed by the Backup power generators.
Materials on hand to secure the facility.
Communications rerouted to other branches or interim locations.
IT recovery plan using backup server in separate location.
Regular building inspection and weather monitoring.
Plans to drop-ship product from suppliers direct tocustomers.
Loss of Information Technology IT systems Computer systems are critical to the businesses since their success is would be more damaging to the businesses than major physical built on high levels of customer service and quick response.
failure of IT systems, with the loss of trading and other records, Mitigation Business interruption insurance cover is held across the Group and Backup servers identified and communication reroute options contingency plans have been drawn up in all businesses.
plans differ by individual business, but will include some or all of the Service contracts with IT providers with access to replacement following elements: servers.
Full data backups as a matter of routine are automatically taken on a Uninterruptible power sources and backup generators where regular basis each week and stored online.
DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 37 Risk: Financial and Accounting The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial and accounting The treasury team identifies, evaluates and where appropriate, risks, including foreign currency, liquidity, interest rate and credit.
The hedgesfinancial risks in close co-operation with the Groups policies for managing these financial risks, as well as the management operating businesses.
The treasury team does not undertake of capital risks, are set out in note 19 to the consolidated financial speculative foreign exchange dealings for which there is no statements.
The principal financial and accounting risks are summarised underlying exposure.
The Groups overall management of the financial risks is carried out by a central treasury team under policies and procedures which are The principal accounting risk is that of inventory obsolescence which reviewed and approved by the Board.
is managed by the operating businesses.
Foreign currency Translational exposure Foreign currency risk is the risk that changes in currency rates will affect Currency exposures also arise on the net assets of the Groups foreign the Groups results.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to operations.
At 30 September 2014, the Groups non-UK sterling net foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily assets in overseas businesses was 144.9m 2013: 132.9m, which with respect to the US dollar, the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar and represented 77% of the Groups net assets.
It is estimated that a further the Euro.
The net assets of the Groups operations outside the UK are also strengthening of UK sterling of 10% against all the non-UK sterling net exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
assets would reduce shareholders funds by 13.2m.
During the year ended 30 September 2014, ca.
75% of the Groups revenue Details of average exchange rates used in the translation of overseas and adjusted operating profits were earned in currencies other than earnings and of year end exchange rates, used in thetranslation of UK sterling.
In comparison to the prior year, the net effect of currency overseas balance sheets, for the principal currencies used by the translation was to decrease revenue by 17.7m and decrease adjusted Group, are shown in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
It is estimated that a further strengthening of UK sterling by 10% against all the currencies in which the Group does business, would reduce adjusted operating profit before tax by approximately 4.3m 8%, due to currency translation.
Mitigation The Group does not hedge translational exposure.
Foreign currency Transactional exposure The Groups UK businesses are exposed to foreign currency risk on to a similar risk asthe majority of their purchases are denominated those purchases that are denominated in a currency other than in USdollars and Euros.
The Groups US businesses do not have any their local currency, principally US dollars, Euro andJapanese yen.
material foreign currency transactional risk.
The Groups Canadian andAustralian businesses are also exposed Mitigation The Groups businesses may hedge up to 80% of forecast being a The Group classifies its forward foreign exchange contracts, which maximum of 18 months foreign currency exposures using forward hedge forecast transactions, as cash flow hedges and states them at foreign exchange contracts.
Inventory obsolescence Working capital management is critical to success in specialised industrial The charge against operating profit in respect of old or surplus businesses as this has a major impact on cash flow.
The principal risk to inventory is ca.
1m each year, but inventories are generally not working capital is in inventory obsolescence and write-off.
Mitigation Inventory write-offs are controlled and minimised by active management Where necessary, a provision is made to cover both excess inventory of inventory levels based on sales forecasts and regular cycle counts.
