Directors Report Strategic Summary Principal Risks to Achieving the Groups Objectives The Group recognises that taking risks is an inherent part of doing business and that competitive advantage can be gained through effectively managing risk.
We continue to develop our risk management processes, integrating risk management into business decision making.
The principal risks and uncertainties together with their impacts are set out in the tables below along with an illustration of what is being done to mitigate them.
Context, specific risks and potential impacts Principal risk Specific risks Potential impacts We do not respond quickly or decisively enough to changing Reduced revenue and profitability 1.
Corporate technology and consumer preferences strategy We fail to respond with a business model that enables us to Reduced revenue and profitability 2.
Sustainable compete against a broad range of competitors on price, range business model and or quality of service We fail to respond effectively to changes in the economic and or competitor landscape The UK economic recovery is slow and prolonged with increased volatility through 2014 and beyond Stability of the economy in Greece is not sustained, leading to a further deterioration and challenge to our business A key system becomes unavailable for a period of time Reduced revenue and profitability 3.
IT systems and infrastructure We fail to invest adequately and appropriately in our IT systems and infrastructure, constraining our ability to grow and or adapt quickly We suffer a major loss breach of customer, colleague or business Damage to our reputation 4.
Information sensitive data security Financial penalties Under investment in people, systems and processes leaves us Lost revenue and margin vulnerable to attack The planned change programmes do not deliver the necessary Reduced revenue and profit 5.
Organisational benefits due to programme failure or not delivering to the change and Deteriorating cash flow required timescales execution risk Reduced customer satisfaction Dixons Retail plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Strategic Summary Principal Risks to Achieving the Groups Objectives continued Example mitigating actions and related strategic priorities Principal risk Example mitigating actions Related strategic priorities Regular review of strategic matters by Board and Executive committees Sustainable business 1.
Corporate model strategy Successful exit of loss making businesses of PIXmania, Italy and Turkey during the year and post year end agreement to sell Central European operations Profit and cash flow scenario planning is performed to help the Group anticipate and manage the impact of a range of possible circumstances Five year plans to deliver the strategy in place across the Group, which are monitored and managed against Structured stakeholder engagement programme Strategic and business planning takes into account varying economic scenarios, Leader in our markets 2.
Sustainable with ongoing monitoring by finance and senior executives Group leverage business model Close scrutiny of product performance, trading results, competitor activity, market share Use of customer insight advocacy to monitor success of initiative and actions Continued focus on driving service and cost improvements Ongoing evolution of our seamless multi-channel proposition with on-line price monitoring and matching Strengthening of relationships with suppliers Group-wide change programme initiated to provide simplified, well-supported and fitLeader in our markets 3.
IT systems and for-purpose systems Group leverage infrastructure Individual recovery plans in place in the event of failure and are tested regularly Data and security governance committee responsible for oversight, co-ordination and Leader in our markets 4.
Information monitoring of information security risk security Implementation of appropriate measures to secure key systems and data against malicious attack Senior management committee dedicated to governance and monitoring of major Leader in our markets 5.
Organisational change programmes change and Sustainable business execution risk model Defined portfolio of programmes and projects with rolling plan process and quarterly reviews Evaluation, planning and implementation analysis carried out throughout the project lifecycle Training on change policies and practices across the Group Dixons Retail plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Strategic Summary Principal Risks to Achieving the Groups Objectives continued Context, specific risks and potential impacts Principal risk Specific risks Potential impacts Our organisational structure limits our ability to adapt to Reduced revenue and profit 6.
Colleague market changes retention and Deteriorating cash flow capability We fail to attract, develop and retain quality and depth of necessary Reduced customer satisfaction leadership and management talent for our business Reduced revenue and profitability A major incident impacts the Groups ability to trade 7. Business continuity and major incident response We fail to prevent injury or loss of life for customers and or Employee customer injury or loss of life 8.
Health and colleagues safety Damage to our reputation Financial penalties We incur foreign exchange losses through supplier contracts being Reduced revenue and profit 9.
Finance and denominated in a foreign currency treasury Deteriorating cash flow An increase in the UK defined benefit pension scheme deficit requires higher deficit recovery payments We fail to maintain the support of our credit insurers We fail to comply with laws and regulations or suffer adverse rulings Reduced revenue and profitability 10.
Governance, by regulatory authorities fraud and Damage to our reputation internal Our actions result in disputes with third parties and or business Financial penalties controls partners We fail to maintain and develop processes and controls to support our business activities Dixons Retail plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Strategic Summary Principal Risks to Achieving the Groups Objectives continued Example mitigating actions and related strategic priorities Principal risk Example mitigating actions Related strategic priorities Group-wide standardised performance management Leader in our markets 6.
Colleague retention and Sustainable business Store structures which provide a clear career path for colleagues capability model Maintain Group talent and succession plans with improved bench strength Reward strategy aligned to retain the best talent Bonus plans, which include components relating to business performance and, for levels below senior management, individual performance Continued improvements in the quality of training courses and development programmes with specialist focus on service, product, commercial and technical Appropriate business continuity and crisis management plans in place for key Sustainable business 7. Business business locations model continuity and major incident Disaster recovery plans in place for key IT systems and data centres response Crisis team appointed to manage response to significant events Major risks insured Dedicated team responsible for ensuring health and safety risks are understood, Leader in our markets 8.
Health and controlled and monitored against applicable regulations, who report on a regular basis safety to the Compliance Committee Clear policies and procedures are in place detailing the controls required to manage health and safety risks across the business Quality checks and factory audits for own brand products Regular review of financial performance, gearing and net debt by management to Sustainable business 9.
Finance and maintain adequate headroom in revolving credit facility model treasury Compliance Committee approves activity that may impact the terms of Group credit facilities Treasury policies set out processes, controls and authority limits for financial instruments, liquidity and bank account management Regular Tax & Treasury Committee reviews of cash and debt management, investment performance, credit risk and foreign exchange risk.
Proactive engagement with suppliers and credit insurers Diversified pensions investment strategy in place with regular investment reviews by Trustee, external investment consultants and Group Treasury Established governance process in place to monitor and manage regulatory and Sustainable business 10.
Governance, reputational risk and monitor mitigating actions model fraud and internal Leader in our markets In-house legal teams communicate on a frequent basis and legal reports are controls submitted to the Board Group Ethical Conduct Policy supported by annual declaration of compliance Corporate Responsibility Committee meets regularly to discuss reputational and regulatory risks and monitor mitigating action Active in-house group legal team monitoring changes in legislation regulation and managing significant regulatory issues Active group loss prevention and internal audit teams monitor the effectiveness of control compliance across the Group Dixons Retail plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Performance Review Overview Key highlights Financial highlights Group underlying profit before tax increased by 76% to Total underlying Group sales up 3% at 7.22 billion 2012 13 1 2 166.2 million versus 94.5 million reported last year and 7.03 billion.
Group gross margins down 0.2% in the full year, with an Further strong progress in the UK & Ireland with underlying improvement in the second half.
operating profits up 24% Total profit before tax after non-underlying items increased by 1 Elkjp delivered another strong year with record profits 53% to 132.9 million 2012 13 profit of 86.6 million.
growing in NOK, its local reporting currency Post tax non-underlying charges of 186.0 million, relating Greece delivered an improved performance with some mainly to disposals of non-core operations.
signs of stability returning to the market Underlying diluted earnings per share 3.0 pence 2012 13 1 Another successful year for the Group, delivering on its earnings of 2.6 pence.
Basic loss per share including key objectives: discontinued operations of 1.9 pence 2012 13 loss per share of 4.5 pence.
Firm establishment of a sustainable business in a multichannel world Disposals of all non-core operations, leaving the Group with leading positions in all our core markets Proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse announced to develop a leading position across electricals, mobiles and connectivity.
Group on-line sales increased by 16% to 1 billion Customer service metrics at their highest ever recorded levels in all markets Return on capital employed of 16.3%, up from 14.9% in the prior year.
Group costs reduced by a further 45 million completing the two year 90 million cost reduction initiative.
Very strong cash generation with the Group ending the year with net cash increasing to 70.9 million.
Dixons Retail plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Performance Review Overview continued Underlying sales and profit analysis Underlying sales Underlying profit loss Year Year Year Year ended ended Like for ended ended 4 5 30 April 2014 30 April 2013 like 30 April 2014 30 April 2013 Note million million % change % change million million UK & Ireland 6 4,148.6 4,014.5 3% 5% 141.0 113.3 Nordics 7 2,789.8 2,733.3 2% 2% 116.9 125.4 Greece 8 279.2 278.8 Flat 9 % 10.5 11.0 Central costs 19.2 16.9 Total Group Retail 7,217.6 7,026.6 3% 3% 228.2 210.8 Property losses 25.4 24.4 EBIT 9 202.8 186.4 Underlying net finance costs 36.6 35.4 Group underlying profit before tax 166.2 151.0 Notes 1 Throughout this Annual Report and Accounts, references are made to underlying performance measures.
Underlying results are defined as excluding trading results from businesses exited, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business impairment charges and other one off non-recurring items, profits losses on sale of businesses, net interest on defined benefit pension schemes, net fair value remeasurements of financial instruments and, where applicable, discontinued operations.
These excluded items are described as non-underlying.
The financial effect of these items is shown in the analyses on the face of the income statement and in note 4 to the Financial Statements.
2 Underlying Profit Before Tax originally reported for the year ended 30 April 2013 was 94.5 million, as reported on 20 June 2013.
3 Businesses exited comprise the operations of PC City Spain and Equanet.
4 Like for like sales are calculated based on underlying store and internet sales using constant exchange rates.
New stores are included where they have been open for a full financial year both at the beginning and end of the financial period.
Closed stores are excluded for any period of closure.
Customer support agreement sales are excluded from all UK like for like calculations.
5 Underlying figures for the year ended 30 April 2013 have been re-presented to exclude discontinued operations.
Discontinued operations comprise Electroworld in Turkey, Unieuro, PIXmania and Electroworld in the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
6 UK & Ireland comprises Currys, PC World, CurrysDigital, Dixons Travel, Harrods concession, operations in Ireland, PC World Business and KNOWHOW.
Like for like sales exclude PC World Business.
7 Nordics comprises the Elkjp group which operates in Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark.
9 Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT equates to underlying operating profit and is defined as underlying earnings from retail operations, after property losses, before deduction of net finance costs and tax.
10 Free Cash Flow relates to continuing operations and comprises net cash flow from operating activities before special pension contributions, less net finance costs, less income tax paid and net capital expenditure.
Group business performance Underlying Group sales were up 3% at 7,217.6 million 2012 13 7,026.6 million and up 3% on a like for like basis, outperforming local markets in general.
Underlying Group sales were up 3% at constant exchange rates.
Underlying profit before interest and tax was 202.8 million 2012 13 186.4 million.
Underlying profit before tax was up 10% year on year at 166.2 million 2012 13 151.0 million.
Group gross margins were down 0.2% across the full year, with improvements in the second half.
Dixons Retail plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support
