PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES IDENTIFYING AND EVALUATING RISKS The Group has an established process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks.
Thestructure and process is summarised below: DPS Board Determine policy and continuously monitor our management of key risks Audit Committee of the Board Review, monitor and advise on our risk assessment and management process Executive Committee Ownership of key risks and mitigation actions Risk Management Committee Co-ordination and review of our risk management processes and reporting across the Group Group functions and subsidiary companies Identification, assessment and management of mitigation Internal Audit Challenge and review 26 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS We identify risks and mitigating actions Our Risk Management Committee RMC within our subsidiary companies and is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
Group functions, and capture significant It receives reports and presentations on risks in the Group risk register.
We define risk status and considers changes in the significant risks with reference to their business that may give rise to new risks.
potential impact on the Group and the The RMC reports on risk status to the likelihood they will occur.
Members of the Audit Committee and provides an annual executive team take personal responsibility report to the full Board.
for monitoring these risks and our mitigation actions.
The principal risks associated with theexecution of our strategy are summarised below: Strategies Risk Impact Likelihood Risk Status 1 Competitor actions High Possible No leading to loss of change Customer First customers or reduced profits 2 Damage to reputation High Remote No and loss of customers change through product failure Product Portfolio Maintaining 3 Material delays in, or High Remote No No product leadership failure of, new product change change development 4 Competitors introduce High Remote No disruptive technology change Business Excellence andSustainability 5 Supply chain failure or Medium Possible No material impact from change natural disaster 6 New regulatory Medium Remote No Strategic Investment controls on use of change materials 7 Failure to develop Medium Possible No digital printing markets change Culture, people & values 8 Changes in macro High Likely No Business sustainability economic conditions change Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 27 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk Impact Mitigation 1 The Group competes against established Inability to sustain price leadership We design our innovation and product global, regional or local businesses and Loss of customer relationships and development programmes to deliver independent suppliers of aftermarket repeatbusiness market-leading products and services, products and services.
The principal risks of Reduced sales, profits and cash flow.
which can command a premium price competition are reduced equipment prices Aftermarket retention is a key objective and loss of profitable aftermarket business to for us and we closely monitor customer low-cost providers.
buying patterns, for any changes in behaviour We operate win back programmes for lost customers, reinforcing the value of our complete service package We develop our printers and fluids to work optimally together.
Our product range offers very broad capabilities, to meet most customer needs.
2 Customers use our products in high Lost customers We measure the quality and performance throughput and often time-critical Damage to our brand of all designs, during our product creation applications, which mean that reliability and Additional cost and lost profit.
process production uptime are paramount for them.
Post installation, we measure and monitor Any product failure can cause disruption to our products performance and have our customers, which in severe cases may mechanisms to deal swiftly with any issues result in lost production or spoilage.
that customers experience We have customer and technical support teams worldwide, with highly trained and well equipped technicians to help customers resolve problems.
3 Maintaining product leadership requires Failure to achieve a return on investment The Group has a well-established and significant ongoing investment in research Loss of market share proven product creation process, with and development.
Developing new products Reduced sales, profits and cash flow.
rigorous stage-gate reviews and approvals.
involves risks, including failure to reach This involves detailed review of product production, not achieving product specifications, business plans, risk performance requirements or the market assessments, systems design, development being smaller than we expected.
We co-ordinate product launches and closely monitor the early-life technical and commercial performance of all newproducts.
4 The technology used in coding, marking Loss of leadership and innovator status We have a small team dedicated to and variable printing has developed gradually Loss of market share identifying market and technology over many years but there remains a threat Reduced sales, profit and cash flow.
developments that new, disruptive technology could be Our strategy combines internal developed, where ownership rights prevent investment and partnering with key us accessing that technology.
technology providers, to expand our access to innovative technology.
We also partner with academia, sponsoring research into new technology areas.
28 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Risk Impact Mitigation 5 As far as possible, the Group operates a Increased costs Where alternative sources are not dual-sourcing policy for critical components.
Longer lead times, resulting in lost sales available or not approved, we hold buffer In some cases, technological advances or Reduced profits and cash flow.
stocks to maintain supply through periods supply capabilities mean we must rely on a of reduced availability single source.
A number of Group suppliers We have business continuity and disaster are in Asia, resulting in lengthy supply chains recovery plans in all our manufacturing and exposing us to potential disruption operations.
These were tested and through supplier failure or transportation proven during 2014, when our main difficulties.
Natural disasters could affect our factory in Cambridge, UK, was flooded ability to operate for an extended period.
Our recovery process meant there was no material impact on customers The Group also has business .
6 Certain chemicals we use in our fluids Disruption to supply and customer Our regulatory affairs team monitors products expose us to the often unique dissatisfaction legislation and regulatory matters affecting regulatory and legislative requirements of the Additional costs the business and in particular the use of many countries in which we sell.
Chemicals Reduced sales, profits and cash flow.
chemicals, including labelling and safety that could come into contact with packaging information requirements.
We maintain a are controlled and there are regular updates policy of strict compliance with mandated and exclusions from approved lists.
While we and best-practice use of chemicals can typically overcome these at a cost, by A number of our management and staff reformulating the product, in the worst case take part in industry and advisory bodies, it could lead to product withdrawal, affecting giving us an overview of developments in supply to our customers.
7 The Group continues to invest in its digital Failure to achieve a return on investment We have invested considerable amounts printing business.
This is a new market, which Reduced prospects for sales and profit in our digital printing business, to add is developing as technology becomes capable growth.
skills, competencies, resources and the of high-speed, high-quality, short-run printing.
capacity for growth We expect the market to grow strongly over We carefully monitor market trends and the next five years but those projections customer behaviour, and have set could overstate the opportunity in the short, milestone sales targets to validate medium or longer term.
There is also a risk adoption rates that we cannot capitalise on that We continue to work with partners, marketgrowth.
to ensure we have access to the latest technology.
Our association with industry bodies ensures we have the widest possible view of market developments.
8 The Group sells in developed and developing Lost sales We maintain close contact with our sales economies worldwide, and is subject to Bad debts businesses and distributors, so we can changes in their economic or political Additional costs to overcome trade anticipate issues with importing goods or situations.
Typically, there are one or more barriers.
fiscal controls countries in which local conditions make Our regulatory teams are able to respond trading or payments more difficult.
In quickly to changing compliance needs isolation, these are manageable and are Where available, we maintain high-level unlikely to be material to Group results.
insurance on distributor debt, in case of However, international sanctions or regional material default.
policies could affect our ability to sell ourproducts.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 29
