STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management The Board has continued to identify, evaluate and monitor risks facing the Group and, during the year under review, a particular focus has been placed on identifying the likely impact that each identified risk could have on the business.
Our approach BUSINESS The Board has identified risks facing the Group and assessed the likely OWNER impact that each identified risk could have.
This has allowed the Board to prioritise and target those risks deemed likely to have the most detrimental impact on the business, were the risk to materialise.
GROUP LEADERSHIP Each identified risk has a business owner who manages and reports on EXECUTIVE TEAM that particular risk to the Group Executive.
Each business owner assists the Board in the review of the risk management processes and takes responsibility for designing the appropriate internal controls and policies.
The risk will also be added to the Groups risk register and regularly reviewed and evaluated.
IDENTIFY RISK The Board can then incorporate identified risks into the formulation and management of the Groups strategic objectives and determine which risks are primary or secondary in terms of likelihood and impact.
REGULARLY ASSESS RISK REVIEW AND AND IMPACT Audit Committee report EVALUATE page 42 THE BOARD Principal risks and uncertainties UPDATE CREATE As with any business, risks are present on a daily basis.
However, KEY RISK MITIGATION belowand on the following pages are the risks that the Board considers REGISTER STRATEGY to be of most significance to the future performance, growth and development of the Group.
RISK IMPACT MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION BUSINESS STRATEGY Strategic direction The risk of implementing o Targets may not be o Diversification and pursuit of growth in new markets inaccordance astrategy in newer markets achieved, profits could withstrategy plans set by the Board andexecuted by the local teams such as Germany, Switzerland, suffer and share price under the leadership of the Group Executive.
Liechtenstein and Luxembourg could drop.
o The Group Executive submits strategy plans to the Board that does not achieve the o As a worst case scenario, forregularapproval.
we fail and have to exit from o The Group Executive meets regularly which permits senior one of our newer markets.
management to identify any challenges or failures quickly andtoimplement or revise strategy promptly.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 20 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RISK IMPACT MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION BUSINESS STRATEGY CONTINUED Appointment of new Chief Financial Officer The Chief Financial Officer o Potentially, there could be a o The Nomination Committee is dedicated to sourcing and recruiting the announced his resignation lack of leadership and right replacement forthe Chief Financial Officer.
from the Company on guidance in the absence of o The Company is working closely alongside an external recruitment 20January 2015.
As a a permanent Chief agency to ensure the right candidate isfound.
resultthe Board and the Financial Officer.
o An interim Chief Financial Officer may be recruited to provide cover Nomination Committee o There could also be a fora period between the current exiting Chief Financial Officer and arefocusing on finding delaybefore appointing thenew Chief Financial Officer.
Germany Germany remains a challenge o Failure to succeed in the o The Group Executive, which currently overseas all markets, is and the Group is dedicated German market could dedicated to running the German market and sharing knowledge tofocusing on its success resultin further losses across all markets.
o The German stores performance and results are scrutinised and o Long-term failure to break analysed weekly which allows for fast-paced strategic decisions even in Germany could tobemade.
result in an exit from the German market.
FOOD PRODUCTION, STORAGE AND SUPPLIERS Failure of a critical supplier We are reliant upon the o Should a major supplier o Core suppliers are routinely put through a risk assessment todetermine continued operation of various cease trading, we may the likelihood of continued source and supply ofgoods.
third-party suppliers who betemporarily unable o Contingency plans are put in place to deal with the scenario provide raw materials.
toproduce certain food ofasupplier stopping supply.
products or be forced o We maintain a close relationship with suppliers and have regular toobtain supply from reviews and meetings.
Food safety and compliance The Supply Chain o The Supply Chain Centres o Dedicated health and safety and food regulatory teams constantly review Centresmust comply with or a store could be closed and monitor food safety and compliance and mentor franchisees and applicable food safety rules down in the event of a store managers to ensure that standards are maintained at all times.
and regulations and our serious food safety risk o Controls are in place to deal with product integrity, approval franchisees must ensure that orissue.
andmanagement of stores, emerging issues and any changes all stores are also compliant.
seriously damaged if a food o Supplier assurance programme in place and Supply Chain Centres safety scare occurs.
areregularly audited by independent third parties totheBRC Global Standard for food safety.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 21 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management continued RISK IMPACT MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION FOOD PRODUCTION, STORAGE AND SUPPLIERS CONTINUED Production issues or destruction of Supply Chain Centres One of the key functions of o A single major failure or o We work in partnership with our suppliers and other master franchisees thebusiness is production of repeated failures in our in neighbouring territories to manage the risk of any delays or interruptions dough and the distribution of dough production, in the supply chain, which could affect trade.
food and other store items by distribution of food or other o We also have the opportunity to increase trade at one of our other our Supply Chain Centres.
store materials could prevent Supply Chain Centres should another Supply Chain Centre have to stores from trading regularly reduce or stop production for any reason.
o A comprehensive site down recovery plan is also in place andforms o Potential for a major adverse part of the Groups business continuity plan.
impact on the Groups financial performance.
COMPETITION Competitors and consumer trends Failure to compete on product, o A material change in o We work relentlessly to reflect changes in consumer tastes and service and quality and market perception of home toimprove our offering by investing in price, quality and service.
changes in consumer tastes, delivery and convenience o Part of our strategy is to have a broad appeal on price, product, brand relevance and foods could adversely affect newstore design concepts, service and quality.
o We regularly review and analyse the markets in which we operate o Failure to anticipate and inaddition to customer perceptions of the brand.
respond to a change in o The Group places a strong focus on new product development to consumer demand could ensure that the menu has a broad appeal and reflects consumer have a material effect on trends.
A new product development NPD team and demographics future results of operations team meets every two weeks to discuss and review consumer and financial performance.
relevance, trends and new products.
We also work closely with external third parties whofocus on consumer analysis and brand tracking.
FRANCHISEES Material deterioration in relationships with franchisees Relationships with franchisees o Franchisees may leave the o Relationships with franchisees are carefully nurtured by Directors, senior are key to the Groups success system which could result management and franchisee-facing employees within all departments.
as the franchisees drive a ina drop in operational o One-to-one business review meetings are held with each franchisee at large part of the business.
o Franchisees may elect o Franchisee dinners and awards are held nationally throughout the year, togoto a competitor.
allowing franchisees to discuss anything of concern or interest directly o Lack of franchisee buy-in withDirectors.
could result in franchisees o The standard franchise agreement in place with franchisees prohibits a not supporting changes to franchisee from opening up another pizza outlet in the area in which they policies, standards, brand used to trade, for a period of one year following their exit from thesystem.
o Forums are in place marketing advisory cooperative and anoperations forum within the Group whereby key senior employees meet with franchisees to discuss operational and marketing plans.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 22 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RISK IMPACT MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION FRANCHISEES CONTINUED Commercial leverage of large franchisees Certain franchisees are now o Franchisees could seek o Senior management and Directors endeavour to maintain a strong and ofconsiderable scale and toinvest in alternative close working relationship with each franchisee which enables early therefore there is a risk that, business ventures, which identification of issues and allows for resolutions to be found as quickly should these franchisees be could lead to less focus on as possible.
allowed to expand further, their stores.
o Each franchisee has an individual growth plan which sets outthe they could attempt to leverage o Franchisees could also stop agreed position with regard to store openings.
off their size with a view to growing or sell their stores.
BRAND REPUTATION Reputational damage or loss of confidence in the brand Any significant act, omission o If any publicity is of o Franchisees are required to adhere strictly to the terms of the or harmful allegation that is asufficiently adverse standardfranchise agreement which places obligations on the made in public in relation nature, customers may franchisee to try to prevent any reputational damage to the brand tothe brand could lead to loseconfidence and onthe part of the franchisee.
significant media interest choosenot to purchase o Regular mentoring of franchisees, training and store visits are andpotentially bad publicity.
o A material loss in o Should a franchisee be in material breach of the standard salescould affect future franchiseagreement, the Company may terminate the standard results of operation and franchise agreement.
o Policies and procedures are in place with employees of the Group thatset out the standards expected of employees of the Group including in relation to social media when talking about or referring tothe brand.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND SECURITY Data protection and security Significant failure in, or o Loss of digital sales could o Customer data is protected by both physical and systems controls successful attacks on, our IT have a detrimental effect on including encryption and authentication technology.
infrastructure, systems and the financial performance o All desktops, laptops and mobile devices have access restrictions processes could impact online of the Group.
andare protected with up-to-date software.
sales and place customer data o Negative publicity, o The IT department regularly monitors, controls and maintains the at risk of loss or theft.
ifmaterial, could lead integrity and efficiency of IT infrastructure.
tocustomers losing o Contingency plans and external data centres are in place to deal confidence and choosing withany significant IT security incidents.
not to purchase from o All critical systems for the Group have external security penetration theGroup.
tests carried out on a regular basis.
o Fines received from regulatory bodies and or claims from individuals affected by the issue.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 23 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management continued RISK IMPACT MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION PROPERTY Store growth Continuing acquisition and o Failure to hit store o Regular meetings and reviews on store opening targets, pipeline and development of property sites openingtargets, or a strategy take place at Group Executive and Board level.
carries inherent risk as material reduction in store o Each country in which the Group operates poses different challenges in challenges exist in relation to openings, could result relation to store growth.
The UK andROI have a dedicated team focusing finding new sites, obtaining infailure to meet growth on property acquisition, store design and store splits with franchisees.
planning permission or other targets and therefore open Germany and Switzerland have property professionals focusing on consents and compliance in areasto competitors.
licensing and permits to enable new stores tobefitted out and opened the countries in which the assoon as possible.
o The Group actively builds on relationships with local authorities to ensure there is an understanding of the responsible way in which stores operate and the Groups willingness to accept appropriate planning conditions.
PEOPLE Employees Failure to attract, retain, o Failing to have the right o Talent management is reviewed at least annually across theGroup develop and motivate the people within the Group where key employees are identified and bespoke development plans bestpeople at all levels.
could limit the Groups are put in place.
o People development and appraisals are a key objective forall managers in the Group.
o The Group places significant investment in training, development andincentives.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Internal controls, fraud and compliance Ensuring the Group has the o The Groups growth and o The Group continues to focus on strengthening its internal controls and appropriate internal controls expansion into Europe means adding to its existing policies and procedures.
larger and more remote o Behavioural guidance is given to employees along with authority teams with potential for levelsfor expenditure and the Group has in place ananti-bribery fraudulent and dishonest andcorruption policy which all employees andexternal suppliers activity by suppliers, commit tocomply with.
o A whistleblowing policy is in place.
o Risk that issues or considerations which should be taken into account could be missed ifappropriate policies andprocedures are notinplace.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 24 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
