Overview of risk 46 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties A structured approach torisk management The effective management of risks within the Group underpins the delivery ofourkey priorities.
Board Audit responsible Committee for the review system of risk the risk management registers and internal and internal control controls Risk Management Committees Periodic review of risk register.
Identify, monitor and manage risks Operating companies Maintain an effective system of risk management and internal control Philip Hudson Group Company Secretary Risk The Group has a comprehensive Each Committee is responsible for Risk management committees system of governance controls in place ensuring that all risks associated with The Group Risk Management Committee to manage risks.
Policies have been its specific area of the business are is responsible for monitoring the risk established in key areas of the business identified, analysed and managed management process on a Group such as trading, treasury, production systematically and appropriately.
It assists the business risk and health and safety to ensure that Each Committee has terms of reference management committees in risk analysis these risks are managed in a controlled that require systems and controls and identification of best practice, and manner and in accordance with the to be approved, implemented and provides additional assurance on the policies set by the Board.
monitored in order to ensure that risk control environment to the Audit activities are commensurate with the Committee and the Board.
risk appetite established by the Board, Internal control and are adequately resourced and comply During the year there was incremental riskmanagement with applicable legal and regulatory enhancement of the structure as our requirements.
Each risk committee The Board is responsible for the Groups operations develop and to improve risk contains at least one member of the system of internal control and for optimisation across the Group.
A process There are six business risk has been established for identifying, management committees: evaluating, determining risk appetite 1 Treasury and commodity risk and managing the significant risks faced managementcommittee by the Group and this has been in place Philip Hudson Group Company Secretary for the year under review up to the date 2 Safety, health, environmental and of approval of the 2014 Annual report productionintegrity committee and accounts.
3 Regulation and strategy risk managementcommittee The process is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure 4 Corporate services risk to achieve business objectives, and management committee can only provide reasonable, not 5 Haven Power risk absolute, assurance against material management committee misstatement or loss.
6 Drax Biomass USA risk management committee Policy and review 47 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Risk monitoring and assurance The Group also has processes in Risk management process theBoard is ultimately responsible for place for business continuity and The key elements of the risk this system of risk management and emergency planning.
management process are as follows: internal control.
The Audit Committee Through the Audit Committee, the reviews the suitability and effectiveness Risk identification risks faced by Board has implemented a programme of risk management processes and the Group are identified during the of internal audit reviews of different controls on behalf of the Board.
formulation of the Business Plan.
aspects of the Groups activities.
Risk management committees assist the Senior management and risk owners, The programme, which is reviewed and executive directors in the operation and with the assistance of the risk updated annually, is designed so that, implementation of the risk management management committees, periodically over time, all facets of the business process, and provide a source of review the risks to ensure that the risk are reviewed to ensure appropriate assurance to the Audit Committee that management processes and controls in systems of control are in place and are the process is operating effectively.
their area are appropriate and effective, working effectively or, where they are and that new risks are identified.
not, deficiencies are rectified by timely and appropriate action.
In agreeing Internal control Risk analysis the basic causes of each the actions to be taken in response to risk are considered, and the impact and In addition, the Group has a each report, the aim is always to embed likelihood of it materialising is assessed.
comprehensive and well-defined internal controls, including measures Risk registers are used to document internal control system with clear intended effectively to identify and the risks identified, level of severity and structures, delegated authority levels manage risk, within each area of the probability, ownership and mitigation and accountabilities.
In parallel with its measures for each risk.
The risk registers work in relation to internal audit, the The Group has a system of planning are reviewed by the risk management Audit Committee also satisfies itself and monitoring, which incorporates committees on at least a quarterly basis.
that an action plan, for dealing with Board approval of a rolling five-year Risks are then logged with reference points raised by the external auditor in Business Plan and approval of operating toimpact and probability as follows: their yearly management letter is being and capital expenditure budgets.
Performance against the budget is Probability subsequently monitored and reported to Low Medium High With the assistance of the Audit the Board on a monthly basis.
The Board Committee, the Board has reviewed the also receives monthly reports on effectiveness of the system of internal trading risk exposure as compared to control.
It has reviewed the reports of the the pre-set limits, and monitors overall Audit Committee, which has considered Group performance against a Scorecard all significant aspects of internal control which shows progress against a set of including financial, operational, trading, financial, operating, safety and other compliance, social, environmental and targets set at the start of the year.
ethical risks in accordance with the Performance is reported formally to Internal Control: Guidance for Directors shareholders through the publication of on the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Operational management Following its review, the Board makes frequent reports on performance determined that it was not aware to the executive directors.
of any significant deficiency or Risk appetite is identified by reference material weakness in the system tothe same criteria.
The analysis enables ofinternal control.
decisions to be taken as to how that risk should be managed by applying mitigation measures to align the riskwiththe identified risk appetite.
Impact Low Medium High Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 48 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Change Commodity market price risk Context Potential impact Examples of mitigating activities, Low dark green or bark spreads The commodity markets in which, Well-understood progressive hedging resulting in lower margins and reduced strategy with forward power and ROC sales we tradeare inherently volatile, and financial performance.
combined with corresponding purchases generation remunerated through, Volatility in financial results.
of fuel and CO emissions allowances when 2 the Renewables Obligation increases profitable and appropriate to do so.
Associated key priorities therisk in relation to the ROC market.
Applications for conversions under the CfD regime which, if approved, remove potential Risk Maximise the value of the Drax business income volatility associated with those units.
We are exposed to the effect of fluctuations in commodity prices, particularly the price of electricity and gas, the price of coal and sustainable biomass and other fuels, the price of CO2 emissions allowances and the market price of ROCs.
Change Counterparty risk Context Potential impact Examples of mitigating activities Continued uncertainty in the global, Additional costs associated with securing, Diversified fuel supply in terms of source fuel and other goods and services from economy and cautious economic and counterparties.
growth potentially impact on the, Failure to secure fuel from other suppliers, Target to optimise holding of fuel stocks.
resulting in limitation of operations.
Close monitoring and reporting of, Adverse effect on cash flow and earnings Risk concentration risk in suppliers and arising from the failure of one or more of the, We rely on third party suppliers for the power counterparties.
counterparties to whom we sell power.
delivery of fuel and other goods and services.
Full suite of power counterparties with We purchase a significant quantity of our fuel Associated key priorities strong credit ratings.
under contracts with anumber of large UK and international suppliers, so are exposed to the, Power trading contracts generally include Maximise the value of the Group risk of non-performance by these suppliers.
provisions that force counterparties to post collateral where their credit rating drops, We enter into fixed price and fixed margin subject to certain restrictions.
contracts for the sale of electricity to a number of counterparties, including non-domestic, Close monitoring and reporting of potential consumers via our retail business, so are credit and collateral risk.
exposed to the risk of failure of one or more ofthese counterparties.
Change Regulatory and political risk Context Potential impact Examples of mitigating activities The governments market reform, Less funding available for plant retrofit, Briefing, representation and engagement investment costs to meet increasingly stringent agenda is driven predominantly atEU and UK level.
bytheneed to move to a sustainable, Development of abatement and alternative, Lower load factors generation levels.
low carbon energy sector which delivers, Adverse effect on financial results, Apply for conversions under the CfD affordable supplies to customers whilst andcash flows.
regime and grandfathered ROC regime to maintaining security of supply over provide increased certainty over future Associated key priorities revenue streams.
Laws and regulations, Continue to promote and lobby the benefits are many and complex, are frequently Deliver our biomass strategy of biomass, seek to secure support beyond changing, and becoming ever more current regime window.
stringent, particularly in relation, Pricing of biomass contracts to allow for Drive Group operational excellence toenvironmental matters.
Regular third party assurance over Risk system effectiveness.
Changes to the current renewable support, Strong safety culture and related training.
regime could adversely impact our biomass strategy.
Renewable support regime expires in 2027.
Further financial disincentives such as the CPS mechanism, could further erode the competitiveness of coal-fired plant.
The EU, UK and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations affect our operations including limits on emissions to air andwater, noise, soil groundwater contamination, waste, and health andsafety standards.
49 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Change Biomass market risk Context Potential impact Examples of mitigating activities The biomass market is developing, Inability to progress the biomass, Contract with suppliers where a robust growthstrategy.
operational plant and logistics infrastructure and investment in the supply chain is already in place: work with new suppliers, Adverse effect on financial results is required.
Risk, Invest in the supply chain whilst in its infancy Associated key priorities to ensure security and timing of supplies.
We could fail to secure sustainable biomass supplies and or logistics arrangements, Hedge currency exposures or secure Deliver our biomass strategy which meet our hurdle return rates and contracts in sterling to the extent that it operational requirements.
Most of the sustainable biomass that we can procure is priced in foreign currency which increases our exposure to fluctuations against sterling and poses arisk to profitability.
Change Plant operating risk Context Potential impact Examples of mitigating activities Maintaining plant integrity is critical to, Personnel injury.
Comprehensive risk-based plant investment, Lower revenues.
securing stable and safe operation.
Increased costs and contractual penalties.
Maintaining a trained and Risk competent workforce.
Adverse effect on financial results, Plant failure may be caused by the andcash flows.
Strong health and safety culture.
underperformance or outright failure of plant, transmission assets or other equipment and, Target to optimise holding of spare Associated key priorities components including the IT systems used to components for use in the event of plant operate the plant or conduct trading activities.
failure, particularly long lead time items.
Drive Group operational excellence The duration of the resultant forced outages is, Business continuity plan for IT systems.
influenced by the lead time to manufacture and, Ensure adequate insurance in place to cover procure replacement components and to carry Deliver excellent people leadership losses from plant failure where possible.
across our operations, Significant amounts of research and, As we progress our plans to convert to a development work have been undertaken predominantly biomass-fuelled generator, we interms of handling and burning biomass.
are exposed to a broader range, and increased level, of technical risk.
Whilst successful first conversion of a unit to biomass has been achieved, further units are planned.
Good progress has been made on our US investments however, project execution risk remains.
Change Power and renewables market liquidity risk Context Potential impact Examples of mitigating activities Liquidity in the power and ROC markets, Inability to hedge short to medium-term, Grow direct sales through Haven Power, exposure to electricity prices through ourelectricity supply business.
is dependent onthere being a sufficient wholesalemarket trading.
Initiatives to be active and responsive make number of counterparties willing to, Increased exposure to short-term Drax an attractive business partner.
Oppose structural changes that impact, Inability to sell all of our electricity output, Risk ourmarket access, such as clearing or ROCs.
The market structure and consolidation of, Lower revenues and increased costs toachieve theexisting generation and supply businesses, Work with other independent generators trading objectives.
in the UK could result in areduction in the viaIndependent Generators Group to number of active participants in the market achieve positive market and regulatory, Adverse effect on financial results withwhom weare able to trade power and changes to improve liquidity.
Secure longer-term structured deals when Associated key priorities profitable to do so.
Application for conversions under the Grow our retail business CfD regime which, if approved, reduce our reliance on the liquidity of the ROC market.
Maximise the value of the Group Deliver our biomass strategy Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
