34 Strategic Report Principal Risks Providing better risk insight each year.
Our Governance Report which starts on page regulatory and legislative changes.
Whilst We are committed to seeking 38 describes the systems and processes we aim to ensure our business is as resilient out opportunities and minimising through which our Board manages risk.
as it can be to such external shocks, the the barriers and challenges that The Board recognises that many risks are Board considers that the principal risks might impede the security of the connected and interdependent.
Like many influencing the performance of the Group in other businesses we are subject to many terms of its key priorities and the ways we Groups long-term viability and to general risks such as changes in sociohave designed our business to mitigate the maximize its economic value to economic conditions, political, financial, negative consequences, are as follows: our shareholders.
ACQUISITION AND MARKET CONSOLIDATION RISKS Strategic aim at risk: To deliver consistent shareholder value by winning market share and expanding into new markets.
KPIs at risk: Return on average capital employed, corrugated volume growth.
The risk Resilience We lack the agility and capability to identify, assess and Our view remains that there are a number of significant opportunities for take advantage of potential opportunities for expansion our business to grow substantially in the years ahead.
into new geographies and market penetration strategies We continually review and assess opportunities for expansion, in terms of for existing markets.
our integrated supply chain activities and or product range across all of the Our investment in new bolt on acquisitions fails to territories in which our divisions operate.
stimulate increased packaging volume or margin growth Country and market entry strategies are based on a defined sourcing network and does not deliver the desired returns for our operations undertaken throughout our divisional and regional business leaders as well in emerging markets.
as through local contacts in country and advisors to ensure that all potential acquisitions are reviewed by those with the most relevant experience, capabilities and capacity to lead successfully either a new market or product line entry or expansion of our closed loop integration strategy.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 35 CAPITAL MARKET AND LIQUIDITY CAPACITY RISKS Strategic aim at risk: To deliver consistent shareholder value by winning market share and expanding into new markets.
The risk Resilience Our inability to finance the growth strategy at acceptable terms.
Our ability to secure access to the debt capital and bank markets is well managed, and we currently envisage few limitations for raising additional financing for the Group.
Our objective is to maintain a strong balance sheet, consistent with an investment grade credit rating, which results in an appropriate cost of capital, whilst providing flexibility to raise additional funding for investment.
We aim to borrow from a variety of resources to reduce the reliance on any particular market.
Where possible, the Group manages cash within cash pools and remits surplus funds to the centre to repay drawings under committed bank facilities.
The level of cash and debt facilities required to fund the Groups business plan is reviewed regularly.
This involves planning for repayments of debt at maturity and including an appropriate amount of headroom under committed bank facilities to provide a reserve against any unexpected funding requirements.
INTEGRATION RISKS Strategic aim at risk: To realise the potential of our people by building a common culture.
The risk Resilience We fail to integrate our business into a single set of cohesive Across our businesses we are developing our talent, building our leadership values exhibited in the daily activities and decision making capability, employee skill base and connecting all our people through a variety processes of our employees and are unable to develop the of networks in order to be seen as the employer of choice in our markets.
appropriate level and calibre of skills and competences across The OWN IT!
employee communications campaign is the cornerstone of our leadership teams to match our key strategic priorities.
the cultural integration strategy connecting DS Smith values to strategy, organisation structure, skills, staffing, styles as well as adoption and use of new technology.
To date its implementation has worked well, and we have a clear desire to move the OWN IT!
programme to a more action oriented foundation.
Our investment in establishing performance and talent management processes adds to the integration priority where employees and management can gauge development opportunities, produce and review succession plans and monitor successes.
com 36 Strategic Report Principal Risks continued SECURITY OF PAPER SUPPLY RISKS Strategic aim at risk: To deliver consistent shareholder value by building a resilient and sustainable business model.
KPIs at risk: Return on sales, return on average capital employed, cash conversion.
The risk Resilience We fail to manage input price risk and processing cost We operate sufficient paper manufacturing operations to give security escalation in an industry that is subject to economic of supply, while still being a net purchaser of CCM and securing lowest cost cyclicality in old corrugated card OCC and corrugated of overall supply.
Improved security of lowest cost OCC and CCM supply is balanced by measures We fail to adapt adequately to changes in paper to secure quality paper by leveraging the scale of our own OCC sourcing and production capacity installed or imported into CCM CCM production to generate a best fit given our geographical footprint.
We markets by our competitors.
use a targeted balance of committed contractual supplies with open market purchases which varies by region and country, reflecting the economic supply radius of our mills, the availability of local supply the quality of the paper available and the local concentration of suppliers.
We continue to pursue a strategy to recover paper price rises with our customers though indexed contracts as part of our commercial contracting process.
We target reductions in the time period taken to recover input cost rises by working with customers to look at the costs at the various points where packaging touches their supply cycle and to help them reduce their costs overall.
COMMERCIAL DIFFERENTIATION RISKS Strategic aims at risk: To delight our customer, to deliver consistent shareholder value, to lead the way in recycling.
KPIs at risk: Return on sales, return on average capital employed.
The risk Resilience We fail to manage adequately critical demand drivers through We invest in providing a long-term commitment to properly resource our our commercial strategy to inspire and drive differentiation research and development through concept to commercialisation, recognising from design to new packaging services and fail to broaden our that we operate in an extremely competitive market place.
This investment pan-European and industrial sector base.
ensures we have an acceptable strength in depth to our commercial capability and the discipline to minimise the impact of margin erosion across our integrated business model.
We operate a high quality, shared strategy for innovation across our closed loop business model and a well-established process for managing new products and services.
We focus on extensive customer engagement work to ensure that innovation activities remain aligned to future customer needs and purchasing requirements.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 37 LEGAL, REGULATORY AND GOVERNANCE RISKS Strategic aim at risk: To deliver consistent shareholder value by building a resilient and sustainable business model.
The risk Resilience The Group fails to maintain its reputation and integrity in its Both our employees and suppliers operate according to our set standards of management processes and procedures through weakness ethics and behaviours as defined in our Operating Framework and manage underpinning the principle of a sound corporate governance legislative or regulatory challenges presented by their respective jurisdictions.
system which results in a systematic failure of, or systemic We continue to enhance our risk-based governance strategy through Group weakness in our internal systems of control and operational policy development to improve both quality and content of each policy and or failure across one or more areas including finance, tax, health, adopt new policies where changes in regulatory or geographical operation safety and environment, IT system integrity, product safety and divisional footprint require.
The Group continues to maintain very detailed and extensive arrangements The Groups business model and or reputation is damaged for the management of health, safety and environment, product integrity through adverse legal and or regulatory change or from direct and safety, including the management of standards and regulations intervention from legislators arising from anti-trust concerns.
Our divisional structure and network allows the Group to respond quickly through back-up or contingency arrangements to mitigate the emergence of any weaknesses identified in our internal controls or through any change in competitive behaviour or market dynamics.
The Group engages with external bodies to undertake compliance and certification testing of its paper grades.
We regularly check our suppliers for evidence of compliance with applicable legislation and standards.
We work with industry associations and through various stakeholder channels to understand and monitor emerging trends in regulation and legislation that may materially influence the sustainability of our business model.
SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY RISKS Strategic aim at risk: To lead the way in recycling by building sustainability into our decisions.
The risk Resilience We fail to realise the full potential of the sustainability The Groups sustainability policy was released in October 2013.
This policy benefits from our closed loop business model from an clearly articulates the interrelationships between economic, environmental inability to attain and disclose sufficient or acceptable and social factors, and it recognises the competing demands of stakeholders sustainability performance measures and related and the role our managers have in balancing those demands.
environmental obligations and or from changed Across our Group we are developing our sustainability credentials by building customer ethos and expectation for increased our leadership capability and connecting our sustainability data in such a way standards of sustainability.
so as to provide improved visibility and assurance to our stakeholders.
We fully comply with European and national legislation for disclosing Greenhouse Gas emissions which supports our existing reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
