Key Link to strategy PRINCIPAL RISKS 1 Develop our specialist proposition 2 Expand the store portfolio AND UNCERTAINTIES 3 Grow multi-channel 4 Develop and exploit our infrastructure The Board has overall responsibility for risk management, internal control and business continuity and determines the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take.
A systematic approach to the continuous identification, assessment and effective management of risks provides assurance that both strategic and operational objectives can be achieved.
Risk Management Framework Our risk management framework promotes effective risk management across all areas of the Group and aims to ensure that the business balances both risk and reward and makes sound judgements as to likelihood and impact.
Executive Directors and senior operational management are tasked with the on-going management of risk through four key stages: Identification Evaluation Mitigation Reporting & Monitoring Periodic risk identification and assessment workshops and reviews are in place to determine the overall risk profile of the organisation as well as specific, detailed risks inherent within individual areas.
All risks identified are evaluated against likelihood and impact criteria to establish their potential severity, which enables us to produce a prioritised risk register.
All risks are assigned owners from the senior management team and the highest priority risks are reviewed regularly by the Executive Board to further assess the extent and effectiveness of controls.
The Group Board gains assurance through twice yearly reviews, as well as by regular challenge to the executive team.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business are set out below, together with mitigation: 2 1 3 BRAND REPUTATION, PRODUCT AND SERVICE QUALITY Performance Description Mitigation Progress in 2013 14 Indicator: The quality and safety of our stores, We have a range of policies Our policies and procedures have Product infrastructure, products and services is specifying the quality of products been reviewed and updated.
complaints essential to the business.
If we fail to and production processes that are Our product recall procedure has and recalls deliver acceptable quality and safety signed up to by suppliers.
Reportable standards there is a risk that individuals We conduct regular audits on all Supplier audits have been health and safety could be harmed and that reputational stock suppliers in line with ETI completed for all key suppliers.
incidents damage could lead to customers, guidelines.
This also covers human Supplier audit colleagues and other stakeholders losing rights concerns.
outcomes confidence in the brand.
We operate a full test schedule for all Executive new products and on a sample basis responsibility: for on-going lines, overseen by our Chief Executive specialist Technology team.
Food hygiene is maintained through the adoption of clear operating guidelines contained in the Groups Food Safety Manual.
Staff certification, risk assessments, equipment inspections and compliance audits ensure standards are maintained.
We continue to invest in a refit programme to ensure stores remain contemporary and provide a high quality shopping environment.
All our operating locations are subject to regular health and safety compliance audits to ensure they provide a safe and secure environment.
16 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials 2 1 3 COMPETITION Progress in 2013 14 Performance Description Mitigation We are the UKs leading homewares Indicator: The Group competes with a wide variety The Board continually monitors retailer with a growing market share, Market share of retailers both in-store and online and Group performance relative to the currently 7.4%.
Failure to Homewares market and against Executive We have redirected the tasks of maintain a competitive offer in the specific competitors.
responsibility: our colleagues in-store towards Homewares market on multiple fronts Continuous brand tracking is used to Chief Executive activities which enhance the price, range, quality and service could gauge customer perception and customer experience.
materially impact returns and limit experience.
We have a customer feedback Investment in Brand Awareness system which enables us to react through TV, digital and traditional quickly to both positive and negative press designed to differentiate on feedback.
Increased marketing expenditure We have a strong focus on new has helped raise awareness of product development, both in our brand.
existing and new homewares Our online sales now account for categories, to strengthen our 6% of total sales up from 4% in specialist proposition.
We have invested significantly in the front-end platform, fulfilment infrastructure and people capabilities to develop and enhance our multi-channel customer offer.
1 2 3 4 REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT & COMPLIANCE Performance Description Mitigation Progress in 2013 14 Indicator: The Group risks incurring penalties, We operate a number of policies and Training on the requirements of the damages, claims and reputational Prosecution and codes of practice outlining Bribery Act and Competition Law is other regulatory damage arising from failure to comply mandatory requirements within the in place for all relevant colleagues action with legislative or regulatory requirements business governing behaviours in all and policies are communicated to all across many areas including but not key areas.
Executive limited to, trading, health and safety, reviewed and updated.
Human Resources policies and responsibility: employment law, data protection, Bribery Operational management are also health and safety policies and Chief Executive Act, advertising, human rights and the responsible for liaising with the procedures are kept under constant environment.
Company Secretary and external review.
For further details please see advisers to ensure that potential our Corporate Social Responsibility issues from new legislation are report on pages 20 to 27. identified and managed.
We have a whistle-blowing procedure and helpline which enables colleagues to raise concerns in confidence.
3 1 4 IT SYSTEMS, SENSITIVE DATA AND CYBER RISK Performance Description Mitigation Progress in 2013 14 Indicator: We are dependent on the reliability and All business critical systems are We have embarked upon a two year Number of major capability of key information systems and based on established, industry plan of significant investment in the IT incidents technology.
A major incident including a leading package solutions, with full depth and capability of our IT function.
cyber-attack, sustained performance support in place.
We completed the upgrade of our Executive problems or failure to keep technology We have a disaster recovery main enterprise wide SAP system.
responsibility: up to date could constitute a significant strategy designed to ensure Chief Executive We are nearing completion threat to the business, at least in the continuity of trade.
of a 7m upgrade of our short term.
Disaster recovery plans have been reviewed for all key sites.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 Key Link to strategy PRINCIPAL RISKS 1 Develop our specialist proposition 2 Expand the store portfolio AND UNCERTAINTIES continued 3 Grow multi-channel 4 Develop and exploit our infrastructure 1 4 COMMODITY PRICES Performance Description Mitigation Progress in 2013 14 Indicator: Significant cost price increases or high Dunelm uses its scale, buying power 17.7% of our products are now Gross margin levels of volatility in key areas such as and growth to secure supply of key sourced directly from the Far East freight rates, raw materials, energy and raw materials at competitive prices.
Executive exchange rates have been a feature of Increased direct sourcing of Foreign currency hedging has responsibility: the British economy over recent years.
products from the Far East has been increased to provide a greater Finance Director Failure to manage and control these mitigated cost increases.
level of certainty in commercial changes may lead to pressure on decision making.
Freight rates, energy and currency margins and adversely impact are bought forward to help mitigate Commodity price tracking is in financial results.
volatility and aid margin place for all key commodities and management.
Specialist procurement resource and tight contract management continues to identify and control costs.
2 PORTFOLIO EXPANSION Performance Description Mitigation Progress in 2013 14 Indicator: Availability of vacant or new retail space Our Group Property Director We have opened 12 new Number of new in the right location is essential to deliver actively monitors availability of superstores in the year.
store openings our growth plans.
Inability to secure or retail space with the support of We have legally completed on 11 and pipeline develop the required retail trading space professional advisers.
new stores due to open in 2014 15. to deliver our superstore format will limit Financial modelling helps us assess Our strategy for the acquisition of Executive our pace of expansion or force us to the viability of potential sites.
responsibility: sites in key catchment areas remains compromise our offer.
The Groups strong cash generation under regular review.
Chief Executive and debt-free status provide an attractive covenant to landlords and the flexibility to acquire freehold units if appropriate.
3 4 1 BUSINESS INTERRUPTION & INFRASTRUCTURE Performance Description Mitigation Progress in 2013 14 Indicator: The Group could suffer the loss of a Physical infrastructure Head Office, Desk-top simulations of disaster n a major facility with a consequent impact Workroom, Multi-channel and scenarios affecting our Head on short-term trading or diversion of Distribution Centre activities are Office and Distribution Centre Executive focus from longer-term strategy and all Subject to Disaster recovery have been completed.
This could materially affect the plans and could all operate from We have moved away from UK Chief Executive profitability of the business.
supplies to direct sourcing from The Group could suffer the loss of a Suppliers The Group seeks to factories in cases where supplier major supply partner also impacting mitigate this risk by limiting the capability issues were identified.
dependency on individual suppliers Additional supply sources routes and by actively managing key have been identified for key supplier relationships.
service levels and a high proportion of direct-to-store deliveries further mitigate supply chain risk.
18 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials 2 4 1 3 FINANCE AND TREASURY Performance Description Mitigation Progress in 2013 14 Indicator: Lack of appropriate levels of cash We have significant cash surpluses We returned 50.7m of cash to Available funds resources or exposure to significant and further uncommitted borrowing shareholders in October 2013 by variations in interest rates or exchange facilities with partner banks to fund way of a special dividend, in addition Executive rates could have an impact on the growth plans.
responsibility: Groups operations and growth plans.
Cash flows are monitored weekly Net cash reserves at the end of the Finance Director against agreed budgets.
A Group Treasury Policy is in place All investment outlined In the to govern cash management 2014 15 budget approved by the strategies and to control foreign Board will be financed through exchange exposures.
2 3 4 1 MANAGEMENT TEAM & KEY PERSONNEL Performance Description Mitigation Progress in 2013 14 Indicator: The success of Dunelm is dependent The composition of the Executive Two important new appointments to Colleague upon the availability of talented senior team is kept under constant review the Executive Board were made retention management.
The business could by the Board to ensure that it is during the year: Chief Information be vulnerable to the loss of individual appropriate to deliver the growth Officer and Commercial Director.
Significant growth has been made responsibility: Succession plans and annual in key buying and business Chief Executive appraisals are in place across supplier areas.
The Executive Board seeks to develop high calibre individuals through sponsored talent management and succession planning.
The Groups remuneration policy detailed on page 49 is designed to ensure that high calibre executives are attracted and retained.
Retention of senior management is supported by awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan and Company Share Option Plan.
Will Adderley David Stead Chief Executive Finance Director 11 September 2014 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19
