Top down Feedback Risk Principal risks and uncertainties These top business risks form the basis for the principal RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS risks and uncertainties detailed in the section below.
The Group faces a number of risks which, if they In addition, the risk team supports the business in its arise, could affect its ability to achieve its strategic management of risks relating to key projects, suppliers, countries and bases.
This process is coordinated by the objectives.
The Board is responsible for determining risk team which reports to the Chief Financial Officer.
the nature of these risks and ensuring appropriate mitigating actions are in place to manage them.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The diagram below provides an overview of the risk management process.
The process commences with The risks and uncertainties described are rigorous annual risk identification workshops attended considered to have the most significant effect by the functional managers and Executive Management on easyJets strategic objectives.
This list is not Team members.
The output from these risk workshops intended to be exhaustive.
Many risks, however, is reviewed and discussed by the Risk Evaluation remain outside easyJets full control, for example Group REG, which is made up of members of senior adverse weather, pandemics, acts of terrorism, management from across the business.
The REG changes in government regulation and identifies and prioritises the top business risks, which are then discussed and challenged by the Executive macroeconomic issues.
Management Team and the Board.
The process focuses on the identification of key strategic, financial and operational risks.
The potential impact and likelihood of the risks occurring are determined, key risk mitigations are identified, and the current level of risk assessed against the Boards risk appetite.
Risk management PLC BOARD EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM TOP BUSINESS RISKS Filter Risk Evaluation Group STRATEGIC FUNCTIONAL COUNTRY KEY PROJECT KEY RISK RISK BASE RISK PROGRAMME SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT ASSESSMENT ASSESSMENT RISK ASSESSMENT RISK ASSESSMENT STRATEGIC OPERATIONAL Sponsorship and risk appetite assessment 28 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Risk Identication & Assessment Challenge & Ownership Risk Prioritisation Strategic report SAFETY FIRST Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation easyJets number one priority is the safety and security of its customers Major safety incident accident Failure to prevent a major safety incident and people.
such as a hull loss or deal with it effectively.
easyJet operates a Safety Management System SMS using a leading software system SafetyNet.
This is used to collect and analyse safety This could adversely affect easyJets reputation and its operational and financial performance.
data and enables learning from easyJet and industry events incidents to be captured and embedded into future risk mitigations.
Data collected is also used to project potential areas of risk.
A robust incident reporting process and Just Culture are in place.
The following also support the SMS: a Safety Committee a committee of the Board provides oversight of the management of easyJets safety processes and systems see pages 58 to 59 : a Safety Review Board at Executive Management Team level is responsible for directing overall safety policy and governance: airline and departmental Safety Action Groups responsible for the identification, evaluation and control of safety-related risks: and weekly operations meetings, safety reporting and monitoring of fatigue risk management.
See page 37 for further details of the above Crew are trained to current safety guidelines.
easyJet has response systems in place and provides training for crisis management, including the performance of regular crisis management exercises.
Hull all risks and liabilities insurance including spares is held.
easyJet has been working alongside the Civil Aviation Authority CAA on the implementation of the new European Aviation Safety Agency EASA safety regulations.
easyJet was issued an EASA Air Operators Certificate in October 2014.
The Director of Safety and Security and the Head of Security work Security and terrorist threat or attack Failure to identify or prevent a major securitywith relevant authorities and governments around easyJets network to ensure that security measures are effective and in compliance with related threat, prevent a terrorist attack, or react to either immediately and effectively.
This could all regulatory requirements.
A significant amount of work is carried out with the aim of enhancing: adversely affect easyJets reputation and its operational and financial performance.
early identification of developing and emerging security risks: the active management of security risks: the reduction of the impact of any security-related incident: and the Groups security culture and awareness.
There is a Security Decision Making Group, whose purpose is to make strategic decisions on whether easyJet continues to operate in countries or areas affected by security-related incidents.
It is attended by the Chairman, Chief Executive, and appropriate members of the Executive Management Team and senior management.
Crew are trained to current security guidelines.
com 29 Risk continued OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation Processes are in place to manage mass disruption.
Impact of mass disruption A number of factors could lead to widespread disruption Crisis management exercises are performed regularly to easyJets network, including forces of nature extreme and a business continuity programme is also in place.
union activity and strike action, acts of terrorism and epidemics pandemics.
Any mass Board policy is to maintain target liquidity at 4 million per disruption could adversely affect easyJets reputation aircraft.
This allows the business to manage the impact and its operational and financial performance.
of downturns in business or temporary curtailment of activities better.
In addition, easyJet has secured business Mass disruption has the potential to have a significant disruption insurance.
adverse affect on easyJets financial results, especially if it should occur during easyJets peak summer months.
In 2014, Gatwick Airport has invested in improved resilience to meet the requirements of the McMillan review.
As the largest number of easyJet aircraft are positioned at Gatwick the worlds busiest single runway airport easyJet easyJet and Gatwick Airport have developed joint could be disproportionately affected by the closure of that contingency plans to provide an effective response to airport for a significant period of time.
The efficiencies achieved by operating a single fleet Single fleet risk easyJet is dependent on Airbus as its sole supplier for type are considered to outweigh the risks associated with easyJets single fleet strategy.
aircraft, with two aircraft types A319 and A320.
There are significant cost and efficiency advantages of a The Airbus A320 family which includes the A319 and Boeing 737 family are the two primary fleets used for short-haul single fleet: however, there are two main associated risks: travel.
There are approximately 5,000 of each fleet operating technical or mechanical issues that could ground the globally with a proven track record for reliability.
full fleet, or part of the fleet, which could cause negative easyJet operates a rigorous established aircraft perception by the flying public: and maintenance programme.
valuation risks which crystallise on the ownership exit of the aircraft.
The main exposure at this time is with the To mitigate the potential valuation risks, easyJet constantly reviews the second-hand market and has a number of ageing A319 fleet, where easyJet is reliant on the future demand for second-hand aircraft.
different options when looking at fleet exit strategies.
easyJet targets an owned to leased split of aircraft of 80:20.
Leasing facilitates the exit strategy of older A319s and protects residual values, as well as providing flexibility in managing the fleet size.
IT system failure Key systems are hosted across two data centres in two easyJet is dependent on a number of key IT systems distinct locations with failover arrangements between and processes operated at London Luton airport and them.
This arrangement is reviewed and tested regularly other key facilities.
to identify areas for improvement and resilience.
An experienced IT team is in place to respond rapidly A loss of systems or access to facilities, including the website, could lead to significant disruption and to any unforeseen incidents that may arise.
could have an adverse operational, reputational and Alternative sites are available should there be a need financial impact.
to relocate critical staff at short notice due to a loss of facilities.
30 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE CONTINUED Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation Enterprise architecture is reviewed and improvements Scalability and flexibility of key IT systems The rapid growth of easyJet over recent years, in are made where opportunities arise.
particular through the introduction of new sales channels easyJet plans for, and maintains, appropriate capacity for and initiatives, creates additional complexity in IT systems.
key systems, and performs structured testing to ensure If not managed effectively, the core applications could that they are sufficiently scaled to meet forecast growth.
lose their flexibility and create issues of scalability, which could increase cost and cause delays when implementing easyJet is a member of relevant systems user groups, required business change.
which provide contact with other users and the ability to share any issues and review system assessments.
easyJet holds regular meetings with key providers of systems and applications to discuss performance, continuous improvements and future innovation.
easyJet has established an IT Governance and Oversight Committee a committee of the Board.
The purpose of this committee is to provide independent oversight over the governance and control relating to the Groups IT business area see page 65 for further details.
Dependence on third-party service providers easyJet has a centralised procurement team which ensures that the Group has competitive supply options easyJet has entered into agreements with third-party service providers for services covering a significant or suitable alternatives.
proportion of its operation and cost base.
Failure to The procurement process is then supported by a supplier adequately manage third-party performance could management framework covering business ownership adversely affect easyJets reputation and its operational and accountability.
Loss of these contracts or inability to renew or negotiate favourable replacement There are alternative service providers within the major contracts could have an adverse effect on future markets in which easyJet operates.
Employee and union engagement takes place on a Industrial action easyJet, and the aviation industry in general, has a regular basis.
significant number of employees who are members As easyJet operates across Europe, there are multiple of trade unions.
Industrial action taken by easyJet unions of which crew are members.
Each of the countries employees, or by the employees of key third-party have localised employment terms and conditions which service providers, could impact on easyJets ability to mitigates the risk of large-scale internal industrial action maintain its flight schedules.
occurring at the same time.
This could adversely affect easyJets reputation and Processes are in place to adapt to disruptions as a result its operational and financial performance.
The level of standby crew cover in place recognises the external factors and volatility that impact the airline industry.
com 31 Risk continued OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE CONTINUED Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation Key business roles within easyJet, and succession plans Senior management succession and reliance on key personnel for these, have been identified.
easyJets current and future success is reliant on easyJets aim is to develop talent from within.
There having the right people with the right capabilities in are several talent development programmes in place key leadership positions.
for individuals who have been identified for fast-tracking into more senior roles as vacancies arise.
In addition, Failure to develop and grow the capabilities and behaviours required of senior management to ensure that all key a management development programme is in place to develop people management and senior leadership business roles have clear successors, could adversely affect easyJets ability to deliver its strategic objectives.
These programmes operate at various levels within the organisation.
EFFICIENT ASSET UTILISATION Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation Asset allocation A portfolio management strategy is in place which takes a balanced approach to the routes that easyJet easyJet has a leading presence on the top 100 routes in Europe and positions at primary airports that are flies, balancing short-term returns with longer-term sustainable growth.
easyJet manages the performance of its network by careful allocation of Route performance is monitored on a regular basis and aircraft to routes and optimisation of its flying schedules.
operating decisions are made to improve performance where required.
The competitive environment is highly dynamic and if easyJet does not continue to optimise its network and The fleet framework arrangements in place, together with aircraft allocation, its competitive advantage could be the Groups leasing policy, provide easyJet with significant weakened and its ability to sustain earnings growth would flexibility in respect of scaling the fleet according to be threatened.
STRONG BALANCE SHEET Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation A Board-approved hedging policy fuel and currency is Exposure to fuel price fluctuations and other macroeconomic shifts in place that is consistently applied.
The policy is to hedge within a percentage band for a rolling 24-month period.
Sudden and significant increases in jet fuel price and or a weakening in the exchange rate relative to the US To provide protection, easyJet uses a limited range of dollar would significantly impact fuel costs.
Increases in hedging instruments traded in the over-the-counter fuel costs would have an adverse effect on the financial markets.
These are principally forward purchases with performance of easyJet if not protected against.
easyJets business can also be affected by macroeconomic A strong balance sheet supports the business through issues outside of its control such as weakening consumer fluctuations in the economic conditions for the sector.
confidence, inflationary pressure or instability of the euro.
This could give rise to adverse pressure on revenue, load Regular monitoring of markets and route performance factors and residual values of aircraft.
is undertaken by easyJets network and fleet management teams.
32 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report STRONG BALANCE SHEET CONTINUED Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation easyJets interest rate management policy is based on a Financing and interest rate risk All of easyJets debt is asset-related, reflecting the capital natural hedge with cash deposits mirroring floating debt.
intensive nature of the airline industry.
None of the agreements contain financial covenants.
Market conditions could change the cost of finance A portion of US dollar mortgage debt is matched with which may have an adverse effect on easyJets US dollar money market deposits.
Operating lease rentals are a mix of fixed and floating rates.
Board policy is to maintain target liquidity at 4 million Liquidity risk A misjudgement in the level of liquidity required could per aircraft.
This allows the Group to better manage the impact of downturns in business or temporary curtailment result in business disruption and have an adverse effect on easyJets financial performance.
Counterparty risk Cash is placed on deposit with institutions based upon their credit rating, with a maximum exposure at the time Surplus funds are invested in high-quality short-term liquid instruments, usually money market funds, bank deposits of deposit of 150 million for any individual AAA rated counterparty money market fund.
Counterparties must have a minimum credit rating There is a possibility of loss arising in the event of non-performance of counterparties which could adversely of Aand counterparty credit ratings are monitored on a daily basis.
Tri-party repos are collateralised with a range of high-quality debt instruments which are publicly traded.
The collateral basket is reviewed on a regular basis.
REPUTATIONAL RISKS Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation Major shareholder and brand owner relationship easyJet has an active shareholder engagement programme led by its investor relations team.
As part easyJet has two major shareholders easyGroup Holdings Limited and Polys Holding Limited which, as a concert of that programme easyJet seeks to engage with easyGroup Holdings Limited on a regular basis alongside party, control 34.6% of its ordinary shares.
Shareholder activism could adversely impact the reputation of easyJet all its other major shareholders.
This is to ensure that the Board and management team are kept aware of the and cause a distraction to management.
easyJet does not own its company name or branding which is licensed from easyGroup IP Licensing Limited.
Representatives from the Board and senior management The licence includes certain minimum service levels that take collective responsibility for addressing issues easyJet must meet in order to retain the right to use arising from any activist approach adopted by the major the name and brand.
The easyJet brand could also be shareholder.
The objective is to address issues when impacted through the actions of easyGroup or other they arise, as effectively as possible.
easyJets brand licence with easyGroup IP Licensing Limited contains terms agreed between the parties for the regular meeting of senior representatives from both sides to actively manage brand-related issues as they arise.
Such meetings occur on a quarterly basis and have proven an effective way of managing brand-related issues.
Separately, easyJet monitors compliance with brand licence service levels and has a right to take steps to remedy any instance of non-compliance.
com 33 Risk continued REPUTATIONAL RISKS CONTINUED Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation A portfolio management office and experienced project teams Ineffective or non-delivery of projects supporting the business strategy are in place to oversee delivery of a portfolio of projects and programmes, and track budgets and benefits realisation.
During the year, the business has initiated a number of key projects and programmes to A steering group, consisting of the Executive Management Team deliver key elements of the strategy.
and key senior management, provides challenge to project teams, monitors progress and ensures that decisions are made at the If these projects and programmes do not deliver the benefits and cost savings planned, easyJet appropriate level.
could fall short of its planned financial results.
Strong cost control is a key behaviour across the Company.
easyJet lean initiatives drive cost reduction and efficiency in targeted areas.
Cyber threats and information security easyJet continues to focus on the protection of information.
Controls are in place to ensure customer, employee and other easyJet receives most of its revenue through credit card transactions and operates as an e-commerce potentially sensitive information is collected, held and processed securely, including: business.
It faces both external cyber threats and internal risks to its data and systems.
monitoring of secure systems against unauthorised access: A security breach could result in an adverse impact quarterly review of the security of internal systems and easyJet.
com for the business and reputational damage.
through penetration testing: enhanced physical security at head office buildings: periodic mandatory employee security training to maintain staff awareness: consideration of information security risks within procurement processes: and monitoring and control of scanning software for fraudulent customer activity by the Revenue Protection team.
There is an Information Security Steering Group, chaired by the General Counsel, which oversees any developments in data threats and controls.
Bribery Act easyJet has a zero tolerance approach to bribery which is reinforced by a strong ethical tone from the top.
Non-compliance with the Bribery Act 2010 could adversely affect easyJet financially and reputationally.
The adoption of appropriate anti-bribery controls has been a key point of focus for the legal compliance programme at easyJet.
These include: completion of risk assessments to determine specific compliance needs: specific policies, including ethics, anti-bribery and corruption policy, and gift and hospitality policy: online training module and mandatory training for all managers and administrative employees in the UK and across the easyJet network: targeted face-to-face training for employee groups perceived as higher risk: the adoption of anti-bribery due diligence and standard anti-bribery clauses for inclusion in supplier contracts: and maintaining awareness of a whistleblowing helpline.
34 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report EXTERNAL RISKS Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation Regular monitoring of competitor and consolidation activity, Competition and industry consolidation easyJet operates in competitive market enabling key routes and positions to be readily defended.
places against both flag carriers and other easyJet seeks to have a rapid response to any such activity low-cost airlines.
that may impact easyJets ability to grow the business.
easyJets key competitive advantages are The Network Development Forum, a cross-functional panel its network, cost base and efficient and robust of senior executives, approves new routes and bases and capital structure.
Failure to retain these advantages the allocation of assets around the network.
Industry consolidation will also affect the competitive environment in a number of markets.
This could cause a loss of market share and erosion of revenue.
Legislative and regulatory risks easyJet seeks to have a key role in influencing future and Legislative decisions, particularly at a national existing policy and regulations which affect the airline industry.
and European level, can have a significant impact This work is coordinated by the Regulatory Affairs Group.
on the airline industry, for example increasing Air Country oversight boards are established for easyJets main Passenger Duty in the UK.
markets, raising awareness of potential changes and impacts in the different countries.
The airline industry is currently heavily regulated, with expected increased regulator intervention.
This includes environmental, security and airport regulation, which have charges levied by regulatory decision rather than by commercial negotiation.
easyJet is exposed to regulatory oversight across its network, which will increase as easyJet grows geographically.
An inadequate knowledge or misinterpretation of local regulations could result in fines or enforcement orders.
This could adversely affect easyJets reputation, cost base and market share.
easyJet is required under European law to Tight operational controls, including availability of standby aircraft compensate passengers for certain long flight and crew to minimise the potential incidence of claims.
In addition, delays and cancellations.
The interpretation country-specific plans are in place to address differing of this law varies by jurisdiction.
