STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED RISK FACTORS THAT COULD AFFECT BUSINESS PERFORMANCE RISKS The Group recognises the importance of thattheappropriate mitigations are in place.
identifying and actively managing the financial Managing risk is embedded in our culture and and non-financial risks facing the business.
howwe conduct our day-to-day business activities.
The Board is responsible for setting the Whilst the Board retains overall responsibility, Grouprisk appetite and through regularly allouremployees have a part to play.
reviewing the risks and controls ensures Approach to managing risk Principal risks and materiality The foundation upon which the Groups risk management In the day-to-day operations of the Group we face many process is built is the Group Risk Register, which is maintained risksand uncertainties.
Set out over the following pages are by Group Internal Audit and is based on regional risk registers.
theprincipal risks and uncertainties which we believe could Biannually, the regional registers are reviewed and updated adversely affect Aggreko, potentially impacting our people, bythe Executive Committee with risks added, amended or operations, revenue, profits, cash flows or assets.
This list is removed asappropriate, and relevant mitigation strategies notexhaustive thereare many things that could go wrong identified.
From this, the Group Risk Register is prepared in inan operation aslarge and geographically diverse as ours order to capture key risks that are common to all regions and and the list mightchange as something that seems immaterial risks relevant to the overall Group.
today assumes greater importance tomorrow.
The Group Risk Register is then formally presented to the In the following section, we outline those items we currently Board for discussion, approval and re-rating of risks where consider to be our most important risks.
The order in which necessary.
Alongside this, the Audit Committee review the they are presented is not significant.
controls framework and the effectiveness of the mitigations identified to manage the risks.
The Board Responsible for the Groups risk management and internal controls Defines risk appetite of the Group Monitors the nature and extent of risk exposure against therisk appetite Executive Committee Ethics Committee Assess and mitigate risks company-wide Reviews the effectiveness of ethical policies and procedures Monitor risk management processes and internal controls Supports the Board in monitoring ethical compliance Audit Committee Internal Audit Supports the Board in monitoring risk exposure against risk appetite Maintain Group Risk register and report on regional and Group risks Reviews the control framework and control effectiveness Supports the Audit Committee in monitoring risk exposure against risk appetite Operational Level Risk management processes and internal controls embedded across functional areas, servicecentres and project sites Risk identification, assessment and mitigation performed across the business Risk awareness and safety culture embedded across the business through regular training 28 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Key Increased risk in 2014 No change in 2014 Decreased risk in 2014 Macro-economic and political environment Economic activity Director responsible: Chris Weston, Chief Executive Officer Risk Background and impact Mitigation There is a link in our business between demand Our global footprint and fleet homogeneity allows An adverse impact on our revenue forour services and levels of economic activity.
usto move rental fleet between businesses: andprofit from an economic downturn.
In theLocal business, slower GDP growth is likely to forexample, in 2013 and 2014, we satisfied the resultin areduction in demand for rental equipment Localbusiness requirements for large generators andthis impact is likely to be compounded by pricing from ourPower Projects business, where we weakness.
Some businesses are also exposed hadsome excess capacity.
toparticular sectors for instance, amaterial We also try to ensure that our businesses builda proportion of our North American business comes diverse customer base to minimise exposure toany from upstream oil & gas: ourAustralian business single sector or geography.
In Brazil we continue to ishighly dependent onmining activity and our invest in temperature control to reduce our sectoral Singapore business has a high proportion of exposure to offshore oil & gas: while in Russia we are shipping activity.
expanding to enable us to develop under-penetrated In Power Projects, the structural drivers ofgrowth sectors such as mining.
areaffected by the economic environment in the As we manufacture most of our equipment inhouse, short term.
The decision topurchase power using we are able to quickly adjust capital expenditure.
flexible solutions is in most cases a political one, Given the large fleet depreciation element in the andgiven that the funds typically have to be diverted business cost base 243 million in 2014, reducing from elsewhere, the opportunity cost is considered.
capital expenditure to a level close to depreciation When economic growth is strong, industrial activity makes the business very cash generative which, isexpanding, deficits are under control and if debt inturn, reduces debt and interest cost.
ischeap, then customers will be more inclined to spend money on flexible power.
In the last couple of years, emerging market economies have seen lower growth rates and therefore demand for our service has reduced.
Oil price volatility Director responsible: Chris Weston, Chief Executive Officer Risk Background and impact Mitigation Over the last few years, the price of oil has We try to ensure that our businesses build a An adverse impact on our revenue beenatafairly stable, albeit high level, with the diversecustomer-base to minimise exposure to any andprofit from a volatile oil price.
1 BrentBlend price at around $100: however during single sector or geography.
In 2014, theoil & gas the latter part of 2014 the price of oil started to sector contributed 17% of Grouprevenue excluding fallsignificantly.
Simplistically speaking a high oil price tends to bedetrimental to markets that are significant oil importers.
In contrast a lower oil price tends tobe detrimental to oil exporting countries asit reduces GDP and spending power for infrastructure investment.
That said, there arenuances by market depending on the economics of oil production and exposure to other sectors: a lower oil price typically stimulates consumer demand and therefore economic growth.
1 B loomberg European Brent Blend Crude Oil spot price per barrel.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 29 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED RISK FACTORS THAT COULD AFFECT BUSINESS PERFORMANCE CONTINUED Macro-economic and political environment Exchange rate fluctuations Director responsible: Carole Cran, Chief Financial Officer Risk Background and impact Mitigation Exchange rate fluctuations can have a dual impact We manage the transactional exchange impact An adverse impact on our revenue and on our performance.
Whilst we report in Sterling, through hedging and denomination ofborrowings profit from transactional or translational theGroups asset values, earnings and cash flows but we do not try to manage translational exchange currency fluctuations.
are influenced by a wide varietyof currencies owing impact: it does not impact the underlying cash flows to our geographic diversity.
Around two-thirds of of the business and it would be prohibitively theGroups revenue and costs are denominated in expensive.
In Power Projects, our cost base ismainly US Dollars: other large currency exposures are the in US Dollars, so we have a natural hedge against Euro 6%, Brazilian Reals 5% and Australian Dollar exchange rate movements.
A 5% movement in GBP USD has a translation impact of 50 million on revenue and 11 million on trading profit.
There is a secondary impact of exchange rate fluctuations that is indirectand mainly impacts demand in our Power Projects business where wetendto transact inUS Dollars.
Political environment Executive responsible: Chris Weston, Chief Executive Officer Risk Background and impact Mitigation In some jurisdictions there are significant risks of We carry out a risk assessment process to consider Political instability affects the political instability, which can result in civil unrest, risks to our people, to assets and topayments.
equipment seizure, renegotiation or nullification We use a wide range of tools and techniques to of existing agreements, changes in laws, taxation manage asset risk, including insurances, bonds, policies or currency restrictions.
In addition, the guarantees and cash advances.
Power Projects imposition of, or change in, sanctions on a country financial exposures are monitored bythe Board can reduce demand for our services.
Any of these onamonthly basis.
The scale and diversity of could have a damaging effect on the profitability of ourbusiness also helps mitigate risk.
our operations in a country, but the greatest risk is inourPowerProjects business.
During the year, we faced difficult operating conditions in Russia as a result of sanctions and in Libya and Iraq due to the unstable political environment.
Failure to collect payments or to recover assets Executive responsible: Carole Cran, Chief Financial Officer Risk Background and impact Mitigation The vast majority of the contracts into which the We constantly monitor the risk profile and debtor Non-payment by customers Group enters are small relative to the size of the position for large contracts, deploying a variety ortheseizure of assets.
Group and, if a customer fails to pay a debt, this oftechniques to mitigate the risks of delayed isdealt with in the normal course of business.
ornon-payment and the risk of asset seizure.
However, the Group has some large contracts This mitigation will vary from customer to customer, indeveloping countries where payment practices but our mitigation factors include obtaining advance canbeunpredictable.
With contracts in around payments, letters of credit, and in some cases 100countries, there are typically two or three large insurance against losses.
Our contract portfolio customers who could cause us payment problems.
isdeliberately diverse in order to diversify riskandweregularly review our exposure The Group takes a rigorous approach to risk toourlargest customers.
management and to date has not suffered a significant loss.
The scale of our business and the deliberate diversity of our customer portfolio makes itless likely that any bad debt or equipment seizure would be material to the Groups balance sheet.
However, the size and scale of our business increases the likelihood of this happening.
The impact of this would result in a provision or write-off of the debt and we would also lose future revenue and profit associated with the equipment.
30 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Key Increased risk in 2014 No change in 2014 Decreased risk in 2014 Temporary power industry environment Competition Executive responsible: Chris Weston, Chief Executive Officer Risk Background and impact Mitigation Aggreko operates in a highly competitive market.
We monitor competitor activity carefully but, Increased competition erodes The barriers to entry are low, particularly in the ultimately, our only protection from suffering material marketshare, margins and returns.
Localbusiness and, in every major market in which damage to our business by competitors is to work we operate, competitors are constantly entering or relentlessly to provide our customers with a high leaving the market.
We welcome this competition quality and differentiated service proposition at asit keeps us sharp and also helps to grow the aprice that they believe provides good value.
overall rental market which, in many countries, Read more about our markets isunder-developed.
Page 12 Product technology and emissions regulation Executive responsible: Ron Sams, Group Operations and Technology Director Risk Background and impact Mitigation The majority of Aggrekos fleet is diesel-powered.
To mitigate these risks, we adopt a number of Changes in regulation make As part of the increasing focus on environmental strategies.
First, we retain considerable in-house ourequipment obsolete.
issues, countries continue to introduce legislation expertise on engine technology and emissions related to permissible levels of emissions and this sowe have a good understanding of these issues.
has the potential to affect our business.
Our engines Secondly, we have very close relationships with are sourced from major manufacturers who, engine manufacturers so we get good forward inturn, have to develop products which conform visibility of their product development pipeline.
tolegislation, so we are dependent on their being When new products appear particularly those ableto respond to legislation.
We also have to be withimproved emissions performance we aim aware that when we buy a generator we want to tointroduce them into the fleet as quickly as beable to rent it for its useful life and to be able possibletoensure that, over time, our fleet evolves tomoveit between countries.
toever-better levels of emissions performance.
An example of this is the significant investment we have made in the development of our gas-fuelled technology in recent years: these engines have significantly reduced emissions compared with otherfuel types.
Gas powered generation now accounts for over 1,500MW of our fleet.
Thirdly, ourglobal footprint is a major advantage as it givesus numerous options for the re-deployment ofourfleet as emissions-compliance becomes more onerous incertain countries.
For example, by the end of 2014in our North American business, around 50%ofthe fleet was either Tier 3 or Tier 4 compliant, withthe previous fleet being re-deployed to other parts of the Group.
Read more about our environmental impact Page 57 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 31 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED RISK FACTORS THAT COULD AFFECT BUSINESS PERFORMANCE CONTINUED Ethical and safety risks Failure to conduct business dealings with integrity and honesty Executive responsible: Peter Kennerley, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Risk Background and impact Mitigation The scale and nature of much of our business poses To mitigate these risks, we operate a compliance An employee or person acting on the risk that we could be accused of bribery and regime based on the guidance published by ourbehalf fails to act in accordance other unethical behaviour.
These risks include theUKMinistry of Justice associated with the withGroup policy and breaches our operating in countries with perceived high levels of UKBribery Act 2010.
First, we aim to ensure that ethics guidance.
corruption, contracts involving public procurement ourprocedures are appropriate and proportionate to and large sums, and the use of third-party therisks we face.
Central to this is our Ethics Policy: sales consultants.
every employee receives a copy when they join the business and each sales consultant acting on our behalf commits to abide by it.
Secondly, we provideBoard-level leadership through our Ethics Committee, comprising entirely Non-executive Directors, which oversees our anti-bribery and corruption strategy, and aims to foster a culture sothat people, both inside and outside the Group, know that Aggreko does not engage in, and will not tolerate, bribery, corruption or unethical behaviour.
Thirdly, we carefully assess the nature and extent ofthe potential external and internal risks of bribery: todate we believe the greatest risk continues to lie with our reliance on third-party sales consultants in those countries where we do not have a permanent presence.
Fourthly, we conduct proportionate due diligence on those who will do business on our behalf.
We carry out comprehensive due diligence on all potential sales consultants, using specialist independent investigators, and once a sales consultant has been appointed we regularly monitor their performance, audit payments and refresh duediligence at least every two years.
Fifthly, we communicate our policies and processes, both inside and outside Aggreko.
We have a web-based training programme for all employees accompanied by regular compliance certification: employees in higher-risk positions and third-party consultants receive tailored face-to face training.
Finally, we monitor all processes and keep them under the oversight of our Head of Compliance and internal audit reviews.
Read more about ethics and integrity Page 65 32 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Key Increased risk in 2014 No change in 2014 Decreased risk in 2014 Ethical and safety risks Safety and security Executive responsible: Chris Weston, Chief Executive Officer Risk Background and impact Mitigation The business of the Group involves transporting, The Group has a proactive operational culture An injury to people or property during installing and operating large amounts of heavy thatputs health and safety at the top of its agenda thecourse of business.
equipment, which produces lethal voltages or very inorder to reduce the likelihood of an accident.
high pressure air and involves the use of millions We work very closely with our customers, oflitres of fuel which could cause serious damage employeesand Health & Safety authorities, to tothe environment.
evaluate and assess major risks to ensure that healthand safety procedures are rigorously followed.
There is a risk that we have personnel travelling The Group has developed health and safety KPIs orworking in high risk countries.
This year we which are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
experienced the additional risk of employees working in the Ebola affected countries in West Africa, and We monitor security risks very closely: we have a challenging security environments in Libya and Iraq.
highly trained internal Head of Security supported bysecurity consultants that provide adviceand assistance for travel in high risk countries.
Our employees are given comprehensive training and support to ensure that they are adequately equipped for the environment in which they are working.
Where health matters are of concern, weimplement stringent testing procedures and restrict access to our sites.
Read more about safety and security Pages 57 and 64 Retaining talent People retention Executive responsible: Sheena Mackay, Group HR Director Risk Background and impact Mitigation Aggreko knows that it is people who make The main mitigation for this is to make sure that Lack of management succession or thedifference between great performance and people enjoy working for Aggreko, that they feel thefailure to retain key employees.
This is true at all levels thatthey are recognised, cared for, and have withinthe business.
We are keenly aware of the challenging and interesting jobs.
As a framework needto attract the right people, establish them forpeople development, we have in place a intheir roles and manage their development.
talentmanagement programme which covers themanagement population.
Rewarding people During the year the Group underwent a period of wellfor good performance, and having a successful senior management change.
Over this period, we Long-term Incentive Plan, also acts as a powerful consider that the risk of losing people increased.
Read more about people Page 62 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 33
