Corporate Governance Processes Operational Audit ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 28 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Principal Risks and Uncertainties Managing our risks effectively.
The Group has well-established risk management and The GEC conducts a formal review and assessment of internal control processes for the identification, assessment the potential risks to the Groups strategic objectives and and management of strategic, operational, financial and operational functions at the start of the financial year.
This compliance risks likely to affect the achievement of the review prioritises the risks relative to the Groups risk tolerance Groups corporate objectives and business performance.
limits, and allocates responsibility for their management.
The Group applies a common risk assessment approach to The risk management process the identification, assessment and management of risks.
The Board has overall responsibility for the risk management This includes common measures of impact and likelihood, process, with its effectiveness being reviewed annually through and the requirement to determine whether the residual risks the Audit Committee.
The Group Executive Committee GEC is are acceptable given mitigating actions or whether additional accountable for the identification and management of risks and actions are required.
This approach provides for consistent their mitigation to the achievement of corporate objectives.
analysis and reporting of new or developing risks throughout To support the evaluation of the Groups risk management the management line.
processes, the Board determines a list of material risks to All operational businesses complete an annual risk and the business for ongoing review.
These risks are prioritised controls self-assessment.
This feeds into the Groups risk on their capacity to materially impact the achievement of profile that is reviewed by the GEC and the Audit Committee strategic objectives, to disrupt business activities or their as part of the annual risk review.
The outputs from the process capacity for significant damage to value.
are factored into the audit plan to focus audit testing on the The Boards review of the material risks requires the key controls in the business.
responsible management to present its analysis of the The schematic below presents the high level overview of the risk to the Board, including the mitigating controls and the risk management and control process.
assessment of the residual risk relative to the inherent risk exposure.
The Board will then determine whether it is reassured by the analysis.
Risk management responsibilities Risk Management and Control Process The Board Audit Committee Group Executive Committee GEC See page 42 for Governance Risk Management Process Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 29 The risks are presented as residual risks as reviewed by Principal risks and uncertainties the GEC, with a description of each risk and the principal The following pages present the principal risks to the mitigating activities in place.
Each of these risks is allocated achievement of the Groups strategic objectives identified to a GEC level risk owner, who, as described earlier, can be through the process described above.
required to present the risk to the Board.
The following icons depict whether each risk is a new risk, The risk map presented below is an extract from the GEC whether it has increased or decreased in significance and or approved risk map for 2014.
Where the assessment of a risk whether it is a key risk.
changes the GEC must agree the change on the risk map, Look out for these icons: with an arrow indicating the direction of change.
New risk Key risk Risk trend Other Major strategic risks Electrocomponents Risk Map 2014 New risks for FY14: C, L A Delivery of the Group strategy B Macroeconomic conditions High E C Long-term strategic market shifts D Increasing competition E Customer acquisition F People risks B G Product data integrity C Medium H Pension cost increases A D I Effective range management J Key infrastructure dependencies K Foreign exchange rate volatility H L Cyber risk threat J I G F M Pace of web innovation and development Low N Breach of regulations leading to prosecution N L M K Low Medium High Likelihood Impact ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 30 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISKS Delivery of the Group strategy A Macroeconomic conditions B Impact Impact The Groups strategic objectives require close management Global economic conditions continue to be uncertain and co-ordination to be delivered effectively.
The risk is that and vulnerable to major shocks such as a further banking the Groups resources and capabilities may be challenged crisis or sovereign debt defaults.
A worsening of global by the scale and complexity of what is required.
economic conditions could result in a loss of business confidence exposing the Groups sales and profits.
Particular risks include insufficient internal expertise, competition for key resources and unanticipated interdependencies or events disrupting programme delivery.
Mitigation Mitigation t Clearly defined business objectives and t Strongly cash generative business strategic priorities t Strong balance sheet t Global organisation structure in place to leverage t Significant headroom maintained on banking covenants internal business capacity and expertise and facilities t Functional ownership of projects with dedicated t Tight cost management and control of stock project management Relevant strategic priorities: t Resourced programme management and project governance function Relevant strategic priorities: Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 31 Long-term strategic market shifts C Increasing competition D Impact Impact Fundamental shifts in the external environment challenge New and existing competitors close the service gap, key assumptions upon which the Group strategy is based.
offering improved service standards and value propositions.
The risk relates to the forward looking analysis of the Changes to the competitive landscape challenge the future environment and the implications of market or growth assumptions made in the Groups strategy.
structural shifts for the strategy and its delivery.
The risk is an increase in supply-side options for the customer, with declining barriers to entry and reduced switching costs for customers.
Mitigation Mitigation t Strategy function in place to monitor and review t Ongoing review of the competitive environment and challenges to strategic assumptions, e. g. applying developing threats scenario analysis to review risks t Dynamic pricing strategy t Close monitoring of market and technical developments t Range globalisation t Strategic reviews with Board and GEC t Maintaining high service level globally t Development of strategic performance measurement Relevant strategic priorities: metrics to support the review of strategy formulation and delivery Relevant strategic priorities: Customer acquisition E People risks F Impact Impact The business does not attract sufficient numbers of new The business is unable to attract and retain high customers and is unable to develop new and existing performing employees.
customer behaviour to deliver the sustainable sales The risk is that employees are not fully engaged and growth objectives.
supportive of the business strategy, which could The risk is that order frequency and value does not change undermine productivity and the quality of work done.
as new customers are attracted.
Mitigation Mitigation t Global customer service campaigns including Voice t Development of existing employee competencies and of the customer, and Standing in the shoes of the the introduction of external expertise where appropriate customer to enhance the customer experience t Employee appraisal processes to align personal t Development programmes to influence objectives with the Group strategy customer behaviours t Annual survey of employee engagement t Investment in web and social media to enhance t Employee engagement programmes built around global online experience behaviours to support high performance t Continuing investment in range globalisation Relevant strategic priorities: and development t Dynamic pricing strategy Relevant strategic priorities: ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 32 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Product data integrity G Pension cost increases H Impact Impact The risk is that current information and data structures There is an increase in scheme liabilities and a reduction inhibit the implementation of the globalisation objective in the value of assets of the UK defined benefit pension and the effectiveness of the wider customer offer.
The risk anticipates increasing market demands The risk is that the Company is required to contribute for more product related data, faster rates of new increased cash sums to address the scheme deficit, which product introductions, price changes and provision of increases the costs on the Income Statement.
Mitigation Mitigation t Range globalisation and compliance programmes to t Quarterly reviews of pension scheme funding position enhance governance and data management structures t Regular interaction with the pension scheme trustees t Strategic content programmes to deliver improvements t Joint Trustee Company working group to review in product data and content quality investment strategy t Enterprise architecture enhancements to address t Consultation with scheme members of the UK defined constraints in the processes to manage product data benefits scheme involving changes to their benefits.
and content These changes involve lowering the cap on the level of salary which is pensionable and increasing member Relevant strategic priorities: contributions for the majority of members.
Relevant strategic priorities: Effective range management I Key infrastructure dependencies J Impact Impact The ongoing development of the range with shortening There is a heavy operational dependence on the resilience product life cycles potentially increases the exposure of of warehousing and IT infrastructure to support business the business to higher levels of stock obsolescence as operations in a high service environment.
well as operational capacity constraints.
The risk is present that unplanned events could disrupt The risk is that as the Group progressively implements the functioning of key elements of the operational range globalisation, it will lack the required capabilities to infrastructure damaging customer service and quickly action new product opportunities or address poor business reputation.
product performance in particular markets.
Mitigation Mitigation t Range globalisation project to drive availability of key t Highly resilient IT systems infrastructure featuring vendor ranges across Group markets operational redundancies and off-site disaster recovery provision t Monitoring and analysis of new product developments to identify high potential products t Strict control over upgrades to core systems and other applications t Product life cycle performance monitoring t Largest five warehouse locations all assessed as t Continuous improvement programmes to improve Highly Protected Risk status operational effectiveness and service efficiencies t Business continuity plans in place at operational t Contractual arrangements with key suppliers on stock locations with annual test schedule in place purchasing and product buy-back Relevant strategic priorities: Relevant strategic priorities: Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 33 Foreign exchange rate volatility K Cyber risk threat L Impact Impact Foreign exchange rate volatility increases uncertainty in Risks relating to the integrity, safeguarding and availability business planning, product procurement costs and profit of information and IT systems.
The main exposures to the Group include the risk of a targeted direct attack on Group systems and data with the potential for loss of confidential information, and an undetected attack using advanced techniques to disrupt the website.
Mitigation Mitigation t Forward contracts used against planned expenditure t Anti-virus software to protect business PCs and laptops t Increased purchasing of stock in Euros and US Dollars t Procedures to update vendor security patches to to mitigate transaction and translation risks servers and clients t Treasury Committee sets agreed risk tolerance levels t Software scanning of incoming emails for known viruses t Compliance against foreign exchange exposure targets reported to Treasury Committee monthly t Firewalls to protect against malicious attempts to penetrate the business IT environment Relevant strategic priorities: t Control reviews to consider the security implications of IT changes t Security reviews with selected third party vendors t Computer emergency readiness team CERT to track software vulnerabilities relevant to the Groups systems Relevant strategic priorities: Pace of web innovation and development M Breach of regulations leading to prosecution N Impact Impact The risk is that the business is unable to maintain the pace Inadvertent breach of regulations leads to prosecution of innovation in web and digital capabilities relative to the and significant fines, e. g. by contravention of product competition.
A failure to maintain innovation could erode compliance regulations, environmental regulations, bribery competitive advantage.
Mitigation Mitigation t Implementation of a new web platform with capabilities t Employment of internal specialist expertise, for faster speed of change supplemented by external partners as required t Improved search engine visibility t Ongoing review of relevant national and international compliance requirements t Greater web functionality with improved search capability and web presentation across multiple devices t Group legal procedures for Group-wide compliance training for senior management leadership team t Agile ways of working to support faster development in bribery and corruption and competition law of our web platform requirements Relevant strategic priorities: t Operational audit reviews of local governance requirements and compliance arrangements Relevant strategic priorities:
