Finance report continued Risk management report The risk management framework at Elementis is well defined internally with an established programme of activities to monitor and manage the Groups principal risks.
Board Management team Audit Committee Manufacturing council The Board is responsible Management is responsible for overseeing the creation for all business activities The Audit Committee Our business takes HSE of value for shareholders, and delivery of the Groups supports the work of the very seriously and our while ensuring that the strategic objectives and Board and is responsible Manufacturing Council, Groups processes are annual operating plans and for ensuring the integrity chaired by our Global in compliance with ultimately shareholder value.
of financial information Director of HSE & Process applicable laws and This requires identifying and processes, as well Safety, holds monthly regulations, and of a high both opportunity and risk as the protection of meetings to review this key standard as regards and leveraging these to the Group assets.
business conduct, ethics Groups advantage.
and its health, safety and Its focus is on financial, This network of environmental The management of risk operational and HSE professionals is performance.
is integrated into the general compliance risks and responsible for sharing management function controls see also Audit knowledge and best The Board defines which means all layers Committee report on practice, reviewing strategic direction in of management have pages 32 to 34. policies and procedures, conjunction with the a responsibility for and advising on all management team and identifying, assessing and process, personal and monitors the performance communicating risk upwards behavioural safety matters, of the businesses in in the chain of management.
including process hazard all material aspects reviews and behavioural of their operation.
To support this approach, safety training.
the Group has risk The Board sets the risk management policies, culture and levels of procedures and controls appetite and tolerance in place.
programme of compliance audits and property surveys exists, as well as the Internal Audit programme.
Below is a summary of risk management activities carried out throughout the year.
Regular review of Review accuracy, Regular review of Recommend and UU UU UU UU principal risks at Board consistency and business performance implement changes meetings through CEO, integrity of financial and material risks updates to corporate Finance Director and reports.
and the Groups policy and standards business reports and Oversee work of the ability to deliver its as necessary.
internal auditors and operating plans.
Advise on setting UU Receipt and review receive reports from More in-depth review HSE objectives and UU UU of incident notification the external auditors.
of risk at least twice targets, initiate training reports as soon as Monitor risk a year: programmes and assist UU these are published management and Review of the with the communication following notifiable internal control Groups business of risk and safety group wide HSE systems.
Consider quality simulation scenario Manage and monitor UU UU Review and approval of management and testing and training process and hazard UU of annual Group financial information at corporate and management insurance programme.
including related tax, site level.
programmes, property Formal risk review legal and compliance Review and survey programme, UU process at least matters.
comprehensive risk as well as corporate annually.
assessment of the compliance programme.
Review and approval Groups risk register.
UU of annual and 3 year Review and UU business plans, as well assessment as review of updated of new business forecasts during and investment the year.
16 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Implementation Structure Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information The risk management framework at Elementis and examples of our regulations and are managed to a high standard.
Of our 18 operating approach to risk management are set out opposite.
Our risk management facilities, 8 have achieved ISO 9001 certification, 5 have achieved ISO process follows an Enterprise Risk Management model comprising the 14001 certification, 3 have achieved OHSAS 18001 certification and our following steps: other sites are managed to similarly high standards.
We also strive to go beyond regulatory requirements.
For example, our main chromium facility 1.
in Castle Hayne, North Carolina, has achieved the comprehensive 2.
performance based criteria to be accredited in the STAR programme.
R isk management analysis and discussion consideration of all This accomplishment is the highest recognition level under OSHAs options for prevention mitigation treatment transfer.
voluntary protection programme which recognises employees and 4.
Risk strategy resourcing and implementation.
employers who have achieved exemplary occupational safety and health.
Monitoring, review and updating of the risk management process.
The paragraphs below provide additional commentary on the table of The management of risk is a responsibility that is incorporated into the principal risks.
The risks disclosed have remained largely unchanged from general management function and shared between the different levels previous years, with the general risk profile remaining fairly stable and no of management, at the site, business and corporate level.
Certain risks new material risks identified.
This is despite a thorough risk review process, or risk areas are managed by more specialised teams or functions.
Legal with reference to industry benchmarking.
The risks inherent in our business and compliance risks, for example, are managed at a corporate level by and the environment in which we operate are well known to management the General Counsel.
Finance and treasury risks tend also to be managed and risk reviews carried out in recent years looked at our major risks going at corporate level.
Supply chain and commercial risks are usually managed as far back as 10 years ago.
at business team level unless escalation is necessary.
Operational and HSE risk management is a shared responsibility at both site and corporate level.
The principal risks comprise a broad top 25 risk grouping, analysing the risk Risk communication, for example, in connection with our products is profile for each whether it is increasing, decreasing or stable, by reference managed by our Global Product Stewardship and Quality teams.
Our to probability and severity of impact pre and post mitigation controls.
The flat management structure and risk culture mean that risk issues are composition of this broad grouping is fairly stable.
However, below this top communicated to the business leadership and management teams 25, new risks have been identified last year and there have also been some promptly, with defined procedures for ensuring that the Board is changes in risk evaluations and profile, reflecting new or improvements to appropriately notified of important risk issues and developments.
As well as the day to day responsibilities for risk management, there are Of the risks shown in the table of principal risks below, the risk profile formal risk review programmes operated throughout the year.
The Specialties for 3 risks increased in 2014 over the previous year: regulation, IT incident and Chromium business leadership teams meet separately at least twice a and tax scrutiny.
The requirements of EU REACh regulations and the year and during one of their meetings a formal risk review exercise is carried proliferation of the UN Globally Harmonised System hazard communications out.
This assessment looks at the major risks facing the business strategic, standard are described in the Corporate responsibility report on page 25. financial, operational, hazard and compliance, their likelihood of occurrence, The increasing prominence of cyber risks around the globe led to the severity of impact and mitigation controls to reduce likelihood as well as higher risk score.
The inclusion of tax risk and financial impact.
The output from these reviews is consolidated into a Group the increasing risk trend indicated reflect the current political climate both risk register comprising business risks which include supply chain and in the UK and internationally as regulators look to increase the scrutiny of operations HSE risk assessments and risks from corporate functions legal, corporate tax affairs.
It is the policy of Elementis to comply fully with all finance, IT, HR and governance.
The management team then carries out applicable tax laws.
an annual risk review in one of its two formal risk review meetings each year, focused on the Group risk register and risk maps.
Benchmarking and other The risk having the highest potential impact on the Group financially best practice materials are used to support its review process.
The output of is the global economic environment and a key factor against this is our managements annual review is submitted to the Board which carries out its broad geographic presence, mitigating the impact of economic changes risk oversight review in December and the output is the table of principal risks in any one country.
Customer service, innovation and delivering tailored, disclosed on pages 18 and 19. differentiated solutions remain the cornerstone of our strategy and this helps us to stay competitive.
Another market risk worth commenting on Strategic risks are usually discussed at management and Board level and briefly is the volatility of activity in the oil and gas industry.
This risk needs programmes of meetings and agenda scheduling mean any developments to be put into a proper context.
Our oilfield business, which supplies drilling concerning principal risks can be flagged and discussed as and when the additives to the global oil service companies participating in conventional need arises, without having to wait for the next formal review meeting.
In offshore and onshore drilling including shale oil and gas drilling, accounted addition to risk discussions at regular Board meetings and its formal risk for about 9 per cent of the Groups sales in 2014.
One of our strategic goals review in December, the Board schedules discussion of specific topics at over the medium to longer term is to increase the size of this business but intervals throughout the year so that more focus can be given to certain we recognise that, notwithstanding the excellent long term trends in the aspects of the business.
global energy sector, the performance of our oilfield business is exposed, to some extent, to volatility from wider macro factors, such as geo-political Financial and treasury risks are well managed throughout the Group, risk or general industry destocking cycles.
However, like other parts of the with clear delegated authorities supported by policies and procedures.
Specialty Products business, the oilfield business enjoys diversification The internal audit function plays an important role in ensuring the as we supply products to multiple segments that operate under different effectiveness of financial, operational and compliance controls.
However, economic drivers: cold climate, deep water, high temperature high pressure in recent years, our internal audit service provider has also broadened drilling and shale oil and gas drilling.
the scope of its assurance services.
Last year, for example, it carried out a cyber-phishing exercise to test the effectiveness and resilience of IT Supply chain risk continues to receive appropriate attention as our ability security controls.
More information about the role of internal audit is given to supply customers can be affected by disruptions due to economic in the Audit Committee report on page 34. uncertainties or caused by severe weather patterns.
Our businesses have worked hard over recent years to improve the resilience of our supply One of the key areas of focus of our risk management activities is our HSE chains in relation to the availability of key raw materials, including working performance.
At Elementis, safety and environmental compliance is a high on business resilience and continuity with our supply chain partners and priority and, as a chemicals manufacturer, our facilities are subject to many taking action to broaden our supplier base.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 17 Finance report continued Risk management report continued We are aware of the significance of cyber or IT risks and, at Elementis, As well as IT penetration tests, we have carried out cyber-phishing our IT strategy is focused on protecting our people, assets and enterprise.
exercises both to improve our monitoring techniques and to raise Our security controls include: awareness among our employees.
Our approach to taxation is to ensure that profits earned in the countries Staff awareness and training.
in which economic activities are undertaken are properly subject to tax in Risk management and compliance.
accordance with the tax legislation that applies in each jurisdiction.
We aim System management and protection.
to fully comply with the requirements of each of the relevant tax authorities Information management and protection.
and to ensure that we deal with these authorities in an open and Process management.
Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Impact Mitigation 1.
Global economic Sub-optimal global Specialty Products is resilient to a deterioration in economic UU UU conditions and economic conditions can conditions due to its balanced geographic footprint, broad competitive pressure affect sales, capacity differentiated product offering and the broad application of in the marketplace.
utilisation and cash its technology across different sectors.
generation, as well as Chromium business model is flexible and can be adapted UU increase competitive to respond to variances in regional demand patterns.
pressure in the marketplace, Financial performance including monthly sales, profit and UU impacting profitability and cash flows is closely monitored with full year forecasts updated operating margins.
3 times a year and variances explained and investigated.
The resultant non-delivery Contingency and cost reduction plans can be implemented UU UU of operating plans can lead in the event of an economic downturn to reduce operating to market expectations costs, including freezing salaries and non-essential capital of Group earnings not expenditure items.
Growth opportunities Lack of growth opportunities Organic and acquisitive growth is a priority for the Board and a key UU UU including acquisitions can lead to sub-optimal area of focus for the management team.
and product innovation financial performance and Experienced Board and management team, robust due diligence UU may not materialise.
processes and support from professional advisers.
Capacity expansion programmes are being implemented to ensure UU the business can supply to high growth markets.
Regular Board reports on new product pipeline and progress UU on R&D projects.
Raw materials Disruption to supply Raw materials are sourced from a broad and diverse supplier base.
chain, key raw materials, Strategic holding of key raw materials.
UU infrastructure e. g. IT Transport and carrier mitigation plans and insurance in place.
UU networks or transportation Energy costs are hedged where possible.
UU and energy price stability can impact capacity utilisation and or operating efficiencies and add to operating costs.
Major regulatory Can lead to higher Active compliance and risk management programmes in place UU UU enforcement action, operating costs and including policies, procedures and training.
litigation and or other reputational damage.
Insurance programme and risk transfer strategy in place to mitigate UU claims arising from financial losses.
products and or historical Experienced General Counsel supported by in-house and external UU and ongoing operations.
Regular reviews of litigation and compliance reports by the Board UU and role of the Audit Committee, as well as the internal audit programme, help ensure these key risks are managed effectively.
18 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Risk Impact Mitigation 5.
Volatile financial markets, Pension investment strategy includes significant element UU UU poor investment returns and of liability matching, including the use of interest rate and inflation increased life expectancy hedging instruments.
can all result in higher Options for pension fide-risking periodically reviewed.
Deficit funding plan agreed with UK pension scheme trustees UU through to 2018.
Regulation technological New technology, methods R&D team aims to develop new products and technologies UU UU advances.
of production or processes for use in an evolving market to meet the changing needs of can give competitors a our sophisticated customers.
Active product stewardship including REACh programme in which UU New regulations impacting the businesses participate in industry consortia, providing data and UU Technology product manufacturing and information to regulators and experts, to support safety reviews obsolescence application can lead to loss of our products in a broad range of applications.
of sales and or add to operating costs.
M ajor event or Such incidents can impact Good housekeeping, preventative maintenance and other safety UU UU catastrophe e. g. IT failure capacity utilisation, add procedures help to mitigate the effects of a major incident.
to operating costs and Insurance programme and business continuity plans that are UU damage reputation.
tested regularly help to mitigate the effects of a major incident.
IT incident HSE management programme with environmental compliance UU audits in place.
M ajor disruption to Volatile financial markets Company was in a net cash position at the year end with extensive UU UU global or regional and or major disruptions to borrowing facilities in place, so any impact is unlikely to materially banking systems.
global or regional banking impact on the ability to trade and fund operations.
systems can affect liquidity, Company cash is deposited with a syndicate of banks with UU the ability to access cash, acceptable credit approval ratings.
make payments and fund Company has a strong unleveraged balance sheet so could raise UU operations, and lead to alternative sources of funding in emergencies.
Treasury policies implemented and compliance monitored, strong UU focus on cash management with weekly cash reports so that cash requirements are known in advance.
Increasing scrutiny of Non-compliance with Experienced Finance Director supported by finance and tax team, UU UU corporate tax affairs due local tax regulations, poor as well as professional advisers, with Board oversight ensures to the current political forecasting of applicable tax planning and compliance is given appropriate attention.
and financial tax rate or miscalculation Group tax rate is monitored closely with at least 4 updated UU environment.
of the appropriate amount forecasts each year.
of tax can negatively impact Tax reports and forecasts reviewed by the Board at least twice UU financial performance, a year.
incur additional costs and Role of internal audit and use of professional advisers with transfer UU damage reputation.
pricing arrangements and tax compliance.
Key: Risk trends Risk stable Risk increased Risk decreased These principal risks and uncertainties should be read in conjunction with the note on contingent liabilities on page 92.
Brian Taylorson Finance Director 24 February 2015 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 19
