Risks and Uncertainties The Board formally reviews the material risks and ensures that these are appropriately managed by the executive management team.
The Board retains ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk management framework, including reviewing its effectiveness, however it has delegated responsibility for annually reviewing the overall effectiveness of the risk management programme to the Audit Committee.
The internal audit function provides assurance to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the internal control procedures through completion of the annual internal audit plan, which takes into account current business risks.
The table below sets out the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and how we mitigate them.
This is not an exhaustive analysis of all the risks the Group may face as there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to the Board or have not been included in this section on the basis that they are not considered to be material.
Strategy and business model Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes Regulation of the tied pub model Following a prolonged consultation regarding the The Group is committed to the tied pub model and works introduction of a Statutory Code the Government issued its closely with a number of stakeholders to support the pub response in June 2014.
It is proposed by the Government sector, evolve the tied pub model and ensure it operates an that there will be a Statutory Code and an independent appropriate and legally binding Code of Practice to promote a adjudicator appointed to oversee the Code.
It is currently mutually beneficial relationship with its publicans.
The Group envisaged that the costs of the adjudicator will be borne by actively engages with the Government, trade bodies and larger companies such as Enterprise.
other stakeholders and has contributed to and continues to participate in the Government consultation process.
Although this removes some of the uncertainty in the sector, until the parliamentary process is complete and the Whilst we remain of the view that the flexible industry-owned final detail is known, the potential costs of implementation framework of self-regulation is working and is the best and the operation of the regime could have an impact upon solution for all interested parties, we recognise the intent of a our profitability, our operational strategy and our relationship statutory regime and are working with the appropriate bodies with our publicans.
to ensure the final legislation presents a workable solution for the industry.
Licensing and other regulatory factors There is a risk that changes to the regulations relating to the The Group works closely with Local Authorities as necessary sale of alcohol could have an impact on the Groups business to ensure licensing requirements are dealt with whenever and the ability of our publicans to operate their pubs.
These risks include changes to licensing legislation, The Group is a member of a number of trade bodies and increases to alcohol duties imposed by the Government and associations, is a contributor to the Drinkaware Trust, the impact of social responsibility issues on the industry in and works closely with these organisations to promote general.
Further details can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of our website at www.
Litigation The Group operates in a heavily regulated industry and may The Group employs an in-house solicitor and other specialists be involved in legal or statutory proceedings in relation to to ensure we comply with legislation and to manage any our pubs or publicans.
The impact of such litigation may be litigation with our publicans.
immaterial in value but may result in harm to the Groups The Group will work with Local Authorities as necessary reputation.
whenever any statutory issues are raised in relation to its pub estate.
Where appropriate, the Group takes legal proceedings against publicans to ensure compliance with their agreements.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 21 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Risks and Uncertainties Strategy and business model continued Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes Health and Safety A H&S incident could result in serious injury to the Groups The Group has developed an effective H&S management employees, publicans or their customers.
system to ensure compliance with all legal duties placed on the organisation by H&S law.
All systems are subject to regular review with training provided as appropriate.
The Group employs a Health and Safety Manager and a Fire Safety Manager to maintain the H&S management system along with the identification and remediation of specific risks and ensuring employees are aware of regulatory requirements.
The Group operates a strategic and operational H&S regime and operates within a Primary Authority Scheme with Westminster City Council.
General economic conditions The Groups business operations are sensitive to economic The Group regularly monitors its key income streams and conditions and the general economic outlook remains publicans performance to ensure the Group is competitively uncertain.
In addition, changes in interest rates and other placed in the market, including regularly reviewing financial economic factors could lead to an increase in the Groups forecasts to assess the impact of economic conditions weighted average cost of capital WACC, or could impact on its budget, strategic plans and its publicans.
Careful profitability either of which could lead to an impairment in consideration is given to all publicans requests for additional the value of goodwill carried on the Balance Sheet.
operational and financial support as well as assessing appropriate investment in the development of our pubs to ensure that we remain competitively placed in the market.
The Group continues to foster mutually beneficial relationships with key suppliers to ensure the impact of any price increases is minimised wherever possible.
The Group regularly reviews its WACC in line with the capital structure, and compares to its competitors.
It annually reviews the carrying value of goodwill and would write down the value if it deemed an impairment was necessary.
Any goodwill that is allocated to pubs that are disposed, is written off during the year.
22 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Pub operations Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes Employees The Group is reliant on its employees to provide key support The Group is committed to providing appropriate employee functions in order to achieve its strategic aims.
training, retention and reward policies and has attained the prestigious accolade of Champion status for Investors In People.
The Group has introduced an e-learning training programme to support our employees on-going development.
Supply chain management The Group places reliance on key suppliers and distributors The Group works closely with its key suppliers and to ensure that there is a continuous supply of drinks and distribution partners to ensure good working relationships, other products to its publicans.
The Group is exposed to as well as taking reasonable steps to try to ensure that interruption or failure of these key suppliers and distributors key suppliers and distributors have appropriate disaster which could result in such products not being delivered to recovery plans in place to maintain continuity of supply.
The Group also has its own contingency plans to minimise the disruption of any external interruption to supply.
Publicans The Group is reliant on the ability to attract, train and retain The Groups publican recruitment and training programme the best quality publicans for its leased and tenanted pubs, and its variety of tenancy and lease agreements are and failure to do this could impact on the Groups strategic designed to attract the best quality people.
industry leading range of flexible agreements, funding options, tailored deals for appropriate applicants and award winning training courses.
Property management Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes Property valuations Valuations of the Groups property portfolio have been The Group ensures that every pub in its portfolio is valued affected by general economic conditions and resulting annually at market value by qualified external and internal downwards pressure on maintainable income streams.
valuers in accordance with RICS Valuation Standards 8th Edition.
These valuations comply with the requirements of These circumstances could continue and therefore reduce International Financial Reporting Standards.
the valuation of the portfolio over time.
There is a risk that changes in the UK property market and general economic We conduct a full estates review on an annual basis conditions could impact on the value of our portfolio and which allows us to set future strategy for each pub in the the ability to dispose of underperforming pubs and the estate.
This review also guides our investment in capital realisations from such disposals.
Property valuations also expenditure, allows us to consider possible alternative uses have an implication for the overall value of the Group and or to dispose of those pubs which no longer fit our strategy.
We invested 64 million on developing and improving our pubs during the year.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 23 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Risks and Uncertainties Capital structure Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes Liquidity risk The Group has a flexible financing structure comprising The Board regularly reviews detailed financial forecasts bonds issued from the Unique securitisation securitised to ensure there is sufficient cash available to meet the bonds, corporate bonds issued by the Company and bank requirements of the Group.
These reviews include the ability borrowings.
to meet restricted payment conditions in the securitised bonds in order that cash can be released by the payment The primary liquidity risks are the requirement to meet of dividends through the securitisation structure to the all on-going finance costs, repay the principal amounts Company.
of the securitised borrowings as they amortise, ensuring there are sufficient funding facilities in place to enable the There are a number of options available to the Group to business to meet all cash flow requirements as they fall manage its financing commitments including the disposal due and meeting the financial covenants associated with of pubs, reducing capital expenditure on the estate as well the financing structure.
as raising new capital through the bank facility or issuing new corporate bonds.
Throughout the year the Group tests all of the financial covenants and forecasts are prepared during the budgeting process.
The Board regularly reviews detailed financial forecasts of the Group to ensure there is sufficient headroom on all covenants.
On 7 October 2014 the Group completed a refinancing which effectively moved 249.5 million of the 600 million debt that was due to be repaid in 2018 to a later maturity of 2023.
At the same time the bank facility was extended to 2018.
Other than the on-going amortisation of the securitised bonds, these are the next scheduled repayments facing the Group.
Based on all of these factors the Board is comfortable that there is sufficient headroom to meet the liquidity requirements of the Group.
24 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Information technology Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes Systems failure The Groups daily operations are reliant on its information A business continuity plan is in place to ensure the business technology systems for accounting, reporting and could continue to function in the event of a major systems communication.
There is a risk that serious disruption could failure.
This plan is regularly tested.
result if these systems fail for an extended period of time.
There are comprehensive controls in place to protect information technology systems, including anti-viral software and the back up and off-site storage of data.
Cyber risk Increasing levels of cyber-crime represent a threat to every The threats facing IT are regularly monitored as part of business with the potential to cause a loss of system the on-going review by the IT Steering Committee, which availability, which could have a consequential financial loss.
regularly reports to the Executive Management Group.
IT disaster recovery and business continuity plans exist and are tested regularly to ensure the business could continue to function in the event of a major systems failure.
There are comprehensive controls in place to protect IT systems, including anti-viral software and the back up and off-site storage of data.
A full review of security was completed by an external consultant during the year, based on the 10 Steps to Cyber Security document published jointly by GCHQ, the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills and the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure.
A number of enhancements to the Groups already robust IT security will be completed before the end of the 2015 financial year.
Strategic Report Approval The Strategic Report, outlined on the inside front cover and then pages 02 to 25, incorporates the Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Strategic Review, the Chief Executives Review, the Financial Review, the Corporate Social Responsibility Report and the Risks and Uncertainties.
By order of the Board L T ogher Company Secretary 17 November 2014 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 25 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report
