Evaluation l a t i n d r e u t A n I h B c R o a e t g R t o i e o o r e g l n i e e p o m a v t n l i p e a l m R l u a d i e a m r s t p a a n Principal Risks and Uncertainties Key Risks Like all businesses, EVRAZ is affected by, and must manage, risks and uncertainties that can impact its ability to deliver its strategy.
While the risks can be numerous, the principal risks faced by the Group in 2014, and valid as of the date of this reports publication and as identified by the Board, are described below along with the corresponding mitigating actions and changes in the risk level during the year.
Risk Management System Reviews the effectiveness of risk management and internal controls systems.
Supports the Board in monitoring risk exposure against risk appetite.
Supports the Audit Committee in Identification reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management and internal controls systems.
Mitigation Support the Executive Risk Committee in reviewing and monitoring effectiveness of risk management.
Promoting risk awareness and safety culture.
18 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 o k n o r d o C B C a s w p i o t r t p i o o e m d C p l u d m e r A v i t o e t p l e a o e c s T h k e s i e R t i e m v i t m u o c C e x E Monitoring Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Risks Risk description Risk level 2014 vs. 2013 and mitigating actions Global economic factors, industry conditions and cost effectiveness Risk direction: EVRAZ operations are dependent on the global macroeconomic EVRAZ has a focused investment policy aimed at reducing and environment and economic and industry conditions, e. g. global managing the cost base with the objective of being among the supply demand balance for steel and particularly for iron ore and sectors lowest cost producers.
coking coal which has the potential to affect both product prices and volumes across all markets.
As EVRAZ operations have a high level In respect of its mining operations the Company has a focus on of fixed costs, global economic and industry conditions can impact divestiture or downscaling of high cost and lower coal quality mining the Groups operational performance.
assets and development of efficient low cost mining operations.
In addition, any reduction in availability of long-term funding puts For both mining and steelmaking operations the Company executes constraints on the Companys ability to grow its business.
Poor cost reduction projects to reinforce competitiveness of assets.
In availability of long-term funding requires the Company to prioritise particular, conversion and logistics cost optimisation programmes debt repayments rather than focus on long-term capital investment were initiated during the year.
Capital and operational initiatives aligned with the overall EVRAZ Reference strategy are noted in the CEOs review on pages 6 to 8 of this report.
For further information please refer to the strategic market context section of the Strategic Report on pages 9 to 11.
Health, safety and environmental HSE issues Risk direction: Safety and environmental risks are inherent to the Companys HSE issues have direct oversight at Board level and HSE procedures principal business activities of steelmaking and mining.
Further, and material issues are given top priority at all internal management EVRAZ operations are subject to a wide range of HSE laws, meetings.
Management KPIs place significant emphasis on safety regulations and standards, the breach of any of which may result in performance.
EVRAZ has instigated a programme to improve the fines, penalties, suspension of production, or other sanctions.
Such management of safety risks across all business units with the actions could have a material adverse effect on the Companys objective of embedding a new safety, harm-free culture at all business, financial condition and or business prospects.
The key environmental issues are primarily concerned with air The Company continues to focus on standardisation of critical safety emissions, used water quality and tailings management.
programmes with a main focus in 2014 on implementing an energy isolation program, or LOTO Lockout Tryout.
Further, EVRAZ has introduced a programme of Behaviour Safety Conversations to drive a more proactive approach to preventing injuries and incidents.
Safety training has been reviewed and strengthened and an operational safety assessment is undertaken for all new projects.
Environmental commitments are detailed in Note 30 to the Reference consolidated financial statements.
For further information please refer to the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 30 to 37.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk description Risk level 2013 2014 and Mitigating actions Potential actions by governments Risk direction: EVRAZ operates in a number of countries and there is a risk that Although these risks are mostly not within the Companys control, governments or government agencies could adopt new laws and EVRAZ and its executive teams are members of various national regulations, or otherwise impact the Companys operations.
New industry bodies and, as a result, contribute to the thinking of such laws, regulations or other requirements could have the effect of bodies and, when appropriate, participate in relevant discussions limiting the Companys ability to obtain financing in international with political and regulatory authorities.
markets, or sell its products.
The Company has diligently taken international legal advice in order To date the Company has not been significantly impacted by recent to assess the compliance requirements and risks of consequences geopolitical developments relating to Ukraine.
There is a risk, from sanctions against Russian businesses and develop procedures however, that if these events were to escalate, there could be an to ensure that sanction requirements are complied with across the impact on EVRAZs operations in the country EVRAZ generates Companys operations.
approximately 5% of consolidated revenue from its Ukrainian business, including on revenues from the sale of coking coal to third party Ukrainian customers.
EVRAZ may also be adversely affected by government sanctions against Russian business or otherwise reducing its ability to conduct business with potential or existing counterparties.
Despite the potential negative impact from sanctions EVRAZ does not presently expect them to have long term effects on the Companys business.
Treasury Risk direction: EVRAZ, as with many other large and multi-national corporates, faces EVRAZ employs skilled specialists to manage and mitigate such risks various treasury risks including liquidity, credit access, currency and and the management of such risks is embedded in internal controls.
interest rate fluctuation, and tax compliance risks.
EVRAZ may be Oversight of the key risks is reported within the monthly Board impacted by a possible introduction of limitations on repatriation of reports and compliance with the internal controls is reviewed by foreign currency proceeds from exports, as well as additional the independent internal audit function, which reports to the Audit regulations or limitations on cross-border capital flows.
In addition, the Company is developing a robust and as mentioned above, potential actions by governments, including sanctions risk management system.
economic sanctions impacting Russian entities may increase the Companys capital market risk in respect of new funding issues.
EVRAZ continues to undertake actions in order to extend its debt maturity profile and lower short-term external funding needs, as well as to pro actively manage the remaining portion of debt subject to maintenance covenants.
Liquidity risk is managed through revisiting capital expenditure plans, cost optimisation programmes and continued asset portfolio rationalisation, and by pro-active liability management and revision of the Companys dividend policy.
The EVRAZ treasury management team and the directors regularly review all funding requirements and exposures.
Reference For further information please refer to the Financial Review on pages22 to 29.
20 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Risk description Risk level 2013 2014 and Mitigating actions Functional currency devaluation Risk direction: Group borrowing capacity may be impacted in times of severe EVRAZ works to reduce the amount of intercompany loans payable devaluation of the subsidiaries functional currencies relative to from subsidiaries with Russian rouble and Ukrainian hryvnia the US dollar: while Group EBITDA and cash generating capacity functional currencies, to limit the possible devaluation effect on can increase at least in the medium term because a large Group consolidated net income.
proportion of sales are priced in dollars its profit and equity can decrease significantly.
EVRAZ is also closely monitoring and controlling cost inflation resulting from severe devaluations.
EVRAZ discloses value in use information to illustrate the effect Reference of devaluation on the Groups cash generating capacity and equity value.
For further information please refer to the Financial Review on pages 22 to 29. Business interruption Risk direction: Prolonged outages or production delays, especially in coal mining, The Company has defined and established disaster recovery could have a material adverse effect on the Companys operating procedures which are subject to regular review.
Business interruptions performance, production, financial condition and future prospects.
in mining mainly relate to production safety.
Measures to mitigate In addition, long term business interruption may result in a loss of these risks include methane monitoring and degassing systems, customers and competitive advantage, and damage to the timely mining equipment maintenance, employee safety training and Companys reputation.
development of geodynamic monitoring systems.
Detailed analysis of causes of incidents is performed in order to develop and implement preventative actions.
Records of minor interruptions are reviewed to identify any more significant underlying issues.
For further information please refer to the Coal section of the Reference Business Review on pages 61 to 65.
Human Resources HR Risk direction: The principal HR risk is the availability of management and Succession planning is a key feature of EVRAZs human resources employees with the necessary attributes and skills.
EVRAZ has invested substantial resource in training, particularly the case for certain regions and business units, e. g. internal mentoring, and development of its pool of successors.
engineers, mining experts and project managers.
Associated risks involve selection, recruitment, training and retention of employees EVRAZ seeks to meet its leadership and skill needs through retention and qualified executives.
of its employees, internal promotion, structured professional internal mentoring and external development programmes.
This includes internal training, schools of engineers, technical forums, and expertise certification programs.
Additionally, training programmes at the Moscow Skolkovo business school are used for the key strategic management pool.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21
