20 Strategic report Protecting our business Protecting our business Risk management is an essential element of how we run our business, to help achieve long-term shareholder value and protect our business, people, assets, capital and reputation.
Experian is an innovation-driven, global making about which risks we take and It enables management to demonstrate business.
Risk management is central how we manage them, based on an a responsible and proactive embedded to how we operate, enabling us to create understanding of their potential strategic, approach to risk management.
In doing value and deliver substantial returns to commercial, financial, compliance, so, the Board's main functions are shareholders.
It operates at all levels legal and reputational implications.
supported by identifying and managing throughout our organisation, across risk, in line with our strategic objectives, Our risk management framework regions, business lines and operational risk appetite, corporate responsibility provides a structured and consistent support functions.
Our approach to risk strategy and the long-term drivers of process for identifying, assessing, management encourages clear decisionour business.
responding to and reporting risks.
PRINCIPAL FEATURES OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK TONE AT THE TOP Sustaining a culture of integrity BUSINESS STRATEGY and ethical values Commitment RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK to maintaining Product a strong risk innovation and control culture Evaluate Defined risks in the governance Identify risks context of the current control structure environment Commitment New customer to competency segments Respond Monitor Communicate to risks Expanding geographically Strategic report Protecting our business 21 PRINCIPAL FEATURES OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK Defined Board and Board committees terms of reference Defined global and regional authorities Defined governance Review significant business commitments through global and regional strategic project committees structure Oversee the risk management process through global and regional risk management committees Report on risk to the Audit Committee and Board Assess the potential effect of each strategic, operational and financial risk on the achievement of our business objectives Identify Identify and escalate new, emerging or changing risks, significant control gaps and risk acceptance risks Consider external factors arising from the environment in which we operate and internal risks arising from the nature of our business, its controls and processes, and our management decisions Evaluate compliance with policies and standards addressing risk management, compliance, accounting, treasury management, information security, fraud and whistleblowing Evaluate Execute formal review approval procedures for major transactions, capital expenditure and revenue expenditure current Monitor budgetary and performance reviews tied to KPIs and achievement of objectives control Apply a risk scoring system, based on our assessment of the probability of a risk materialising, and the environment impact and velocity if it does Require executive management confirmations of compliance with Experians system of internal control, policies, and corporate governance and corporate responsibility processes Have active risk remediation strategies including internal controls, insurance and specialised Respond to treasury instruments risks Use formal review and approval procedures for significant accepted risks Boardand Group-level finance reports including financial summaries, results, forecasts and revenue trends, investor relations analysis and detailed business trading summaries Regional-level detailed performance reviews Regional and executive risk management committee and Audit Committee risk reporting on the status of Communicate principal emerging risks, the progress of strategic projects acquisitions and escalation of significant accepted risks Global Internal Audit reporting to the Audit Committee on assurance testing and fraud whistleblowing investigation results Management, internal audit and third parties control reviews and follow-ups Global Internal Audit independent assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal controls Monitor A variety of Audit Committee risk reporting addressing material emerging risks, material litigation, information security and regulatory compliance Audit Committee annual review of the effectiveness of Experians systems of risk management and internal control: receipt of an annual report on the controls over relevant risks Additional financial reporting internal controls We have detailed policies and procedures to ensure the accuracy and reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements.
This includes our comprehensive Group Accounting Manual GAM, which contains the detailed requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The Groups finance team owns the GAM and we have rolled it out across the Group, obliging all Experian companies to follow its requirements.
The GAMs aims are to: provide guidance on accounting issues: enable consistent and well-defined information for IFRS reporting: provide uniform quantitative and qualitative measures of Group performance: and increase the efficiency of the Groups reporting process.
22 Strategic report Protecting our business Protecting our business continued Long-term performance risks Throughout the year, we have critically reviewed and evaluated the risks Experian faces.
This section outlines our assessment of the most significant risks and uncertainties that could affect our long-term performance.
These risks are not set out in any order or priority.
The list is not exhaustive and it is likely to change during the course of the year, as some risks assume greater importance and others become less significant.
PRINCIPAL RISKS REGULATORY COMPLIANCE We must comply with international, federal, regional, provincial, state and other jurisdictional regulations and best practice, including but not limited to privacy, consumer data protection, health and safety, tax, labour, environmental, anti-corruption and information security laws.
Performance indicator Description of risk Change from 2013 EBIT and general We might fail to comply with international, federal, Increasing risk litigation trends regional, provincial, state or other jurisdictional 2014 update regulations, due to their complexity, frequent changes Strategic alignment To the best of our knowledge, we comply or inconsistent application and interpretation.
Product innovation with data protection requirements in every Potential impact jurisdiction we operate in.
Geographic expansion We may face increased costs to comply with The UK Financial Conduct Authority these regulations.
FCA has been formed with rule-making, If we fail to comply, we may have to pay fines or investigative and enforcement powers face restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand over some activities of our Credit Services our operations.
Both the US Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and FCA How we manage this risk have similar objectives, tied to protecting Our Global Compliance team has region-specific consumers interests.
It remains uncertain regulatory expertise and works with our businesses how these bodies may affect our Credit and to identify and adopt compliance strategies.
Consumer Services business processes and business models in the future.
DATA OWNERSHIP AND ACCESS Our products and services rely extensively upon data collected from public and private sources.
The act of collecting and analysing large quantities of this data generates more data, which augments our products and services.
Performance indicator Description of risk Change from 2013 EBIT Consumer privacy concerns could lead to changes Stable or restrictions in how consumer information is Strategic alignment 2014 update collected, aggregated, analysed and used for Product innovation Momentum towards positive data, which marketing, risk management and fraud detection.
provides visibility into on-time payment Our data providers could withdraw or be unable history, continues in some countries, to provide their data to us.
although the benefits of positive data laws Potential impact sometimes take longer to come into effect.
For example, Brazilian banks are being Our ability to provide products and services to our clients cautious about how credit bureaux acquire could be affected, leading to a materially adverse effect data-sharing permissions from consumers, on our business, reputation and operating results.
resulting in a protracted timeline for How we manage this risk adopting positive data.
Separately, We monitor legislative bills and educate lawmakers, we continue to enter into long-term regulators, consumer and privacy advocates, industry contracts with data providers, as well trade groups and other stakeholders in the public as securing access to data sources policy debate.
We use standardised selection, negotiation and contracting of provider agreements, to address delivery assurance, reliability and protections relating to critical service provider relationships.
Our legal contracts define the type and use of data and services.
We analyse data to make sure we receive data of the best value and highest quality.
Strategic report Protecting our business 23 PRODUCT, SERVICE OR TECHNOLOGY OBSOLESCENCE The markets for our products and services are characterised by technological changes, frequent introduction of new services and evolving industry standards.
Performance indicator Description of risk Change from 2013 EBIT and ROCE Advances in technology may result in rapidly changing Stable consumer preferences for products, services and Strategic alignment 2014 update delivery formats.
Product innovation We continue to invest heavily in new data Potential impact sources and analytical products, together Further information We might be unable to support changes in the way with the platforms that support their Our strategy section our businesses and clients use and purchase worldwide delivery.
We aim for over 10% information, affecting our operating results.
of our revenues to come from products developed during the past five years.
In How we manage this risk addition, 21% of our global costs are in We carry out detailed competitive and market analyses.
We use rigorous processes to identify and select our investments in products and services, so we can effectively introduce new products and services to the market.
INTERRUPTIONS IN BUSINESS PROCESSES OR SYSTEMS Our ability to provide reliable services largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data and call centres, as well as maintaining sufficient staffing levels.
Performance indicator Description of risk Change from 2013 EBIT Our systems, personnel and operations could be exposed Stable to damage, interruption and pandemic outbreaks.
Strategic alignment 2014 update Potential impact Geographic expansion While we experienced limited disruptions Any significant failure or interruption could have a during the financial year, isolated events materially adverse effect on our business, financial including weather and power disruptions performance and financial condition.
provided real-time validation of our plans and processes.
We continue to How we manage this risk perform periodic exercises to ensure our We maintain sufficient operational capacity to documented procedures are accurate and rapidly cover a loss of personnel or system failure.
suitable for each specific environment.
We ensure strict standards, procedures and training programmes for physical security.
We have comprehensive business continuity plans and incident management programmes.
We fully duplicate all information in our databases and run back-up data centres.
We employ third-party vendor continuity standards, procedures, training and support arrangements.
DEPENDENCE ON RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION OF HIGHLY SKILLED PERSONNEL Demand is high for individuals with appropriate knowledge and experience in the information technology and business services market.
Performance indicator Description of risk Change from 2013 Employee engagement We may be unable to attract, motivate or retain key Stable talent, or to hire and retain personnel at reasonable Strategic alignment 2014 update compensation levels.
Product innovation The results of our 2013 global people Our competitors may offer more attractive employment survey show an overall positive trend, New customer segments terms and seek to hire our high-talent personnel.
with our scores improving or staying Geographic expansion Potential impact the same in 14 out of 15 categories.
Further information However, our engagement score declined Not having the right people could materially affect our P14 by 1% to 74%, compared to 2011.
In part, Our people section ability to service our clients and grow our business.
we ascribe this to raised expectations P52 Our corporate How we manage this risk resulting from the high profile of the responsibilities We have ongoing recruitment, personal and Heart of Experian programme.
career development, and talent identification and development programmes.
We carry out our global people survey approximately every 18 months and act on feedback received.
We offer competitive compensation and benefits and review them regularly.
24 Strategic report Protecting our business Protecting our business continued LOSS OR INAPPROPRIATE USE OF DATA Experian owns and processes a large amount of highly sensitive and confidential consumer information.
Performance indicator Description of risk Change from 2013 EBIT, employee We may face cyber-attacks on us, our partners or Increasing risk engagement and general third-party contractors, suffer other breaches of 2014 update litigation trends security, or lost, misappropriated or misused data.
The persistent threat of cyber-attacks in Strategic alignment Potential impact both the public and private sectors means Product innovation Losing or misusing data could result in material loss that organisations will have to continuously of business, substantial legal liability or significant adapt and strategically invest, to protect New customer segments harm to our reputation.
their data and systems from increasingly Geographic expansion complex threats.
We continue to invest in How we manage this risk Further information IT security and execute a sound security We have robust physical security, technical P08 strategy that allows for layered protections Our business lines controls and contractual precautions.
section EXPOSURE TO LEGISLATION OR REGULATORY REFORMS ADDRESSING CONSUMER PRIVACY Legislative and judicial systems in the countries we operate in are responding to public concerns over consumer privacy.
Performance indicator Description of risk Change from 2013 EBIT and ROCE New laws, regulations or enforcement practices Increasing risk could change or restrict how consumer information Strategic alignment 2014 update is collected and used for marketing, risk management Product innovation Globally, data security and digital and fraud detection.
privacy concerns continue to be a Geographic expansion Potential impact primary legislative focus that might We may suffer increased costs or reduced revenue broaden the definition of protected resulting from modified business practices, adopting personal information and restrict its new procedures or self-regulation.
How we manage this risk We educate lawmakers, regulators, consumer and privacy advocates, industry trade groups and other stakeholders in the public policy debate.
EXPOSURE TO INCREASING COMPETITION We operate in a number of highly competitive geographic, product and service markets.
Performance indicator Description of risk Change from 2013 EBIT and organic New or existing competitors may develop products Increasing risk revenue growth and services that are superior to ours, or achieve 2014 update greater market acceptance.
Strategic alignment We are seeing an increasing number of New or existing competitors may be able to sell products Product innovation well-funded smaller competitors, with at lower prices than ours by accepting lower margins or new technologies or new approaches to New customer segments because they benefit from proprietary ownership of data, our markets, including email, business Geographic expansion technological superiority or economies of scale.
In addition, some Further information Potential impact emerging markets are challenging the P08 transition to positive data, due to bank Our business lines Price reductions may reduce our margins, market data access and usage liability concerns.
section share and results of operations, and harm our ability Resolving these concerns could result to obtain new customers or retain existing ones.
in greater direct control of data by these How we manage this risk banks.
We continue to roll out several We are committed to continued research and investment new platforms across existing and new in new data sources, people, technology and products markets.
For further examples of these, to support our strategic plan.
We continue to focus on please refer to the Our strategy section developing new products that leverage our scale and of the annual report.
allow us to deploy capabilities into new and existing markets and geographies.
Strategic report Protecting our business 25 OTHER RISKS EXPOSURE TO MATERIALLY ADVERSE LITIGATION, INCLUDING CLAIMS OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY INFRINGEMENT OR VIOLATION OF PRIVACY LAWS We are involved in a number of pending and threatened litigation claims in the US and Brazil, including a number of class actions.
Performance indicator Description of risk Change from 2013 EBIT and general litigation Litigation can cover a number of areas, including Increasing risk trends intellectual property, privacy, antitrust, general 2014 update commercial disputes and employment.
Strategic alignment In Brazil, the volume of lawsuits continues Potential impact Product innovation to grow, primarily claims challenging An adverse outcome in any of these claims could result Serasas consumer credit score product.
New customer segments in civil or criminal penalties, as well as negative publicity This is a significant, industry-wide, issue Geographic expansion which may encourage further claims.
and the merits of the principles of these Further information cases are due to be considered by the We may incur significant costs in handling claims P74 Superior Tribunal of Justice in the next Corporate governance and may suffer reduced revenue if business practices twelve months.
report Audit Committee require amendment.
Report The number of US class action lawsuits How we manage this risk P161 has moderately increased while the Financial statements We monitor third-party patents and patent applications.
volume of individual consumer litigation note 45 describing We carry out freedom-to-operate analyses.
continues to increase year over year.
contingencies for This is attributable to increased filings of pending and threatened We vigorously defend all pending and threatened litigation small claims matters and to heightened litigation claims claims, employing internal and external counsel to media coverage of the US consumer effectively manage and dispose of proceedings.
We analyse the causes of cases, to identify any potential changes in our business processes and policies.
We maintain insurance cover, where feasible and appropriate.
ACQUIRING BUSINESSES OR ENTERING INTO STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS MAY NOT PRODUCE THE DESIRED FINANCIAL OR OPERATING RESULTS We continue to expand our global reach and to extend our capabilities through a combination of acquisitions, strategic alliances and joint ventures.
Performance indicator Description of risk Change from 2013 EBIT and ROCE It may be difficult to assimilate new businesses and Stable their products, services, technologies and personnel Strategic alignment 2014 update into our operations.
Product innovation Our investments in Russia, India and Partners in an alliance or joint venture may have Australia in joint ventures are providing our New customer segments different objectives or different cultures and consumer credit bureaux with data and Geographic expansion management styles resulting in poor integration regional expertise needed for their ongoing and co-operation.
We invested in four businesses Potential impact that diversify our product offerings, such Strategic report as in fraud management and the US discussion of how we Difficult integrations may disrupt our ongoing business, healthcare payments market: our risk extend our global lead distract management and employees, increase expenses profile was unchanged due to our sound through geographic and otherwise materially and adversely affect our integration practices.
expansion operating results and financial condition.
P158 Financial statements How we manage this risk note 40 for a description We rigorously assess all acquisitions and partnerships, of the financial impact of using both in-house experts and professional advisers.
acquisitions on the Group We conduct extensive post-acquisition and organic investment reviews, to ensure performance remains consistent with the business plan.
We conduct performance reviews of all our businesses and, as a result, sometimes withdraw from low-growth or low-return markets.
26 Strategic report Protecting our business Protecting our business continued EXPOSURE TO THE UNPREDICTABILITY OF FINANCIAL MARKETS FOREIGN EXCHANGE, INTEREST RATE AND OTHER FINANCIAL RISKS Our operations expose us to the unpredictability of international financial markets.
Performance indicator Description of risk Change from 2013 Profit before tax We are exposed to foreign exchange risk from future commercial Increasing risk transactions, recognised assets and liabilities, and investments in, Strategic alignment 2014 update and loans between, undertakings with different functional currencies.
Geographic expansion Tapering of the US quantitative We face interest rate risks arising from our borrowings.
easing QE policy could Further information Credit and liquidity risks arise from our derivative financial contribute to ongoing currency P47 Financial review instruments and borrowing facilities.
Changes in the value of section and financial sterling, the euro, the Brazilian Potential impact P120 statements notes real or other Group operating Changes in financial market conditions could adversely currencies, relative to the US affect our business, operations and profitability.
dollar, could affect our EBIT.
How we manage this risk Reduction in QE could also result in higher global interest rates, We operate conservative currency hedging strategies, to making our debt more expensive minimise the impact of currency volatility.
We use fixed and floating rate borrowings, of varying durations.
We have long-term committed bank borrowing facilities.
Our treasury and insurance activities are only with institutions with strong credit ratings, within limits we set for each organisation.
ADVERSE MARKET CONDITIONS COULD AFFECT OPERATIONAL RESULTS Our operations are exposed to adverse market conditions resulting from concerns about the large sovereign debts and or fiscal deficits of a number of European countries and the US or an economic slowdown in high-growth markets such as Brazil and China.
Performance indicator Description of risk Change from 2013 EBIT and percentage of The default, or a significant decline in the credit rating, of one Stable revenue from customer or more sovereigns or financial institutions could cause severe 2014 update segments other than stress in the financial system.
Concerns over the state of sovereign financial services An economic slowdown could hit our high-growth markets.
debt have moderated, along with Strategic alignment Potential impact governments taking measures to Geographic expansion promote economic growth.
We We could see sluggish demand for our products and services, continue to benefit from a diversified Further information affecting our operations and profitability.
portfolio of clients, in many P34 Regional reviews Financial instability of our customers, suppliers, counterparties countries.
For 2014, businesses in or creditors could affect our profitability.
North America accounted for 50% How we manage this risk of global revenue, Latin America 19%, the UK and Ireland 20% and Our business is diversified by region and clients.
the remaining countries, comprising We continue to develop counter-cyclical products and services.
the EMEA Asia Pacific regions, 11%.
We monitor our counterparty relationships.
EXPOSURE TO COUNTRY AND REGIONAL POLITICAL, FINANCIAL, ECONOMIC OR SOCIAL RISKS, PARTICULARLY IN THE US, BRAZIL AND THE UK Our global footprint subjects our businesses to risks associated with international sales and operations.
Performance indicator Description of risk Change from 2013 EBIT Changes in a countrys or regions political, economic or social Stable risks or geopolitical turmoil could result in loss of services Strategic alignment 2014 update and prevent us meeting agreed service levels or fulfilling other Geographic expansion We have seen isolated instances of obligations.
These risks are generally outside our control.
social and political unrest in Brazil, Further information We could face increased effective tax rates due to changes in Turkey and Thailand, which have P57 Our corporate some countries tax laws.
Cyclical responsibilities How we manage this risk economic weakness in Brazil working in partnership has contributed to a slowdown We have a diverse portfolio by geography, product, sector with communities in organic growth during 2014. and client.
P24 Exposure to legislation or Latin America accounted for 19% We help communities to realise their social and economic regulatory reforms risks of global revenue.
potential, by using our business skills, products and services and uncertainties to promote financial education, financial inclusion and support small business entrepreneurs.
We retain internal and external tax professionals, who monitor the likelihood of future tax changes.
Strategic report How Experian helps: Automotive 27 Strategic report Protecting our business Automotive You can hardly wait to buy your first car but you know you have to be smart about it You find a car you like online.
Its the right shade of blue and has the sunroof you wanted.
You call the owner and arrange to take it for a How Experian helps test drive.
Our vehicle history service, The owner seems genuine but you want to know more about the AutoCheck in the US and cars history before handing over the cash.
After all, its a significant VehicleCheck in the UK, helps investment and youve saved hard for months.
you understand the history of You run a car history check and find that the car was in an accident a used car, including if it has last year and registered as a write-off.
The car should never have been written off, whether it has returned to the road after the accident.
It also appears that there mileage discrepancy, if it may have may be some outstanding finance on the vehicle.
You ask the owner outstanding finance or has been about it but she will not provide documentation that the finance is reported as stolen.
Our reports help paid off: so it could potentially be repossessed at any time and youll you buy with confidence.
You walk away from this one.
Theres another car you have your eye on, this time in red.
