Principal Risks and Uncertainties Fenners operations around the world are exposed to a number of risks which could, either on their own, or in combination with others, have an adverse effect on the Groups results, strategy, business performance and reputation which, in turn, could impact upon shareholder returns.
The principal risks listed here are taken from believes will ultimately increase shareholder the Fenner Risk Universe and are deemed value - but only to the extent that it can principal due to their overall risk ranking identify the relevant risks, gain a thorough and their specific relevance to the Group's understanding of those risks and be able to business, strategy and operations.
Additional manage the risks adequately and risks and uncertainties not presently known to appropriately by using a range of risk Fenner or that Fenner currently consider mitigation strategies.
immaterial may also have an adverse effect on its business.
Details of our risk management processes are set out on pages 44 to 45 Risk appetite Fenners business model and strategy requires the Group to operate globally and in what can be challenging conditions.
Fenner is prepared to accept those risks which it Risk: Key markets Owner: Chief Executive Officer & Executive Committee Description: Fenners business model Controls and mitigation: Developments in the year: Continued results in operations in global markets and Natural market resilience due to the weakness in the North American ECS in diverse market sectors, including Groups diversity.
market was compensated for, in part, by commodities, energy, medical and growth in oil & gas and other sectors.
Benefit of underlying volume growth in transportation.
These sectors can be subject energy markets and other basic See pages 18 to 25. to cycles and other external factors.
Fenner identifies and develops Impact: A substantial downturn in one or opportunities within each operation and Risk Trend Strategic more key markets could have a material across the Group that are counter cyclical relevance adverse impact on the business, including to help balance out any market downturn.
an impact on volumes, price, margins and Strong The markets in which the Group cash flow together with increased Growing operates are continually monitored competitor activity.
Risk: Competitor activity Owner: Executive Committee & Operational management Description: Due to the products and Controls and mitigation: Developments in the year: New entrants to services offered, the global competitor A diverse product range provides a certain markets are being monitored, as are landscape is complex and dynamic.
Market intelligence and competitor Impact: Commercial activity by competitors, Risk Trend Strategic analysis supports market activities and or changes in their products or technology, relevance informs investment.
could impact upon Fenners market share R&D and technical product development.
Resilient Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 14 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Risk: Climate change Owner: Chief Executive Officer & Executive Committee Description: Fenner has operations in most Controls and mitigation: Developments in the year: Inter alia, energy markets, including coal, oil & gas and Monitoring of government initiatives and Fenner has commissioned additional alternative energy, all of which can be public opinion.
hose capacity to supply the developing subject to environmental and political fracking market.
Entering into alternative energy markets, interests in addition to commercial including wind.
Seeking to diversify further into noncarbon markets when appropriate Impact: The market for the Groups products opportunities arise: including iron ore and services, the way Fenner operates and and copper.
Risk Trend Strategic the ability to acquire raw materials can be relevance driven by real, or perceived, climate change and regulatory actions in response to climate Resilient change concerns.
Risk: Raw materials Owner: Operational management Description: Fenner purchases a variety Controls and mitigation: Developments in the year: Supply chain of raw materials which can be subject to Wide geographical spread, devolved processes continue to improve across the price fluctuations and for which there are purchasing and supply chain functions Group.
We are experiencing increased limited or even single source suppliers in allow Fenner to utilise a wide range of supplier stability.
techniques including long-term purchase contracts, escalation clauses Impact: Increased susceptibility to in sales contracts and dual sourcing.
uncontrollable and rapid movements in price Conversion know-how is retained inleading to margin erosion.
house and in specific situations base Risk Trend Strategic materials are purchased.
A loss of a supplier could lead to an relevance inability to produce goods in a timely or Resilient efficient manner.
Risk: Liquidity and foreign exchange Owner: Group Finance Director Description: Operating across a number of Controls and mitigation: Developments in the year: The territories adds complexity to managing Fenner has secure long-term debt strengthening of sterling has reduced profits liquidity and exposes the income statement finance and committed facilities and net borrowings compared to the and balance sheet to currency variations.
supported by sound banking and investor exchange rates prevalent in the prior year.
relationships in the relevant currencies.
The long-term debt maturity profile was Impact: Longer-term issues arise from a strengthened by increasing and extending Group treasury policy covers, inter alia, cost base in one currency and markets committed bank facilities.
the use of currency contracts, supplied in another.
High foreign exchange investment hedging policy and regular See pages 27 to 28. volatility increases hedging costs.
Liquidity reporting of trading exposures.
constraints could lead to reduced funds for Risk Trend Strategic further investment or working capital relevance requirements.
Strong Risk: Major projects and acquisitions Owner: Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director & Executive Committee Description: The growth strategy and Controls and mitigation: Developments in the year: There were no investment programme requires selecting Group control, authority levels and acquisitions in 2014.
In relation to the the optimum investment opportunities and approval processes are supplemented by acquisitions completed in 2013, the contingent designing, building and effectively operating the use of experienced project deferred consideration for American Industrial appropriate facilities.
Plastics and Australian Conveyor Engineering ACE was reduced by 10.4m and an Group acquisition procedures include Impact: Issues can exist around successfully impairment on ACE of 7.2m was recorded.
due diligence and the use of professional integrating acquired businesses into the The Mandal's expansion was successfully advisors, appropriate and enforceable Group.
commissioned in June 2014. representations and warranties and detailed integration planning.
There is a risk of management focus Risk Trend Strategic becoming diverted from external market relevance issues to internal operational issues in undertaking new projects and acquisitions.
Growing Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 15 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk: Technology and intellectual property Owner: Operational management Description: Fenners products, materials Controls and mitigation: Developments in the year: Increased and processes have high levels of technical The Groups products, materials and investment in employee capabilities, research innovation and know-how necessary for our processes are continually developed and and development.
performance-critical applications and which enhanced through R&D and technical help to underpin strong brands and activities across all our businesses.
Fenner actively registers, manages and enforces intellectual property rights.
Impact: These technologies and intellectual Competitor activity is monitored both property rights need to be kept current through directly and by use of specialist services.
continuous development and R&D and are Appropriate steps are taken to recruit, susceptible to theft, infringement, loss and retain and incentivise key people in replication by competitors.
This could lead to technical roles.
loss of competitive advantage, loss of brand premium and loss of business.
Designs, formulae, specifications and Risk Trend Strategic techniques are physically safeguarded and relevance the Group uses non-disclosure and nonStrong compete agreements.
Risk: Key personnel Owner: Chief Executive Officer & Executive Committee Description: The future success of Fenner is Controls and mitigation: Developments in the year: During the year, dependent on the continued services of key The corporate culture and management the Group has created The Fenner Gateway personnel.
Certain of Fenners processes style of Fenner is augmented by bespoke Development Programme for those identified require specialist skills which are not terms and conditions of employment for as high potential.
The Group has attractive incentive Impact: A loss of key personnel, with schemes including bonuses, pensions associated intellectual property and knowRisk Trend Strategic and long-term incentive plans.
how, could disrupt production or even relevance Established recruitment and strategy.
A lack of new talent or inability to development programmes operate Strong retain and develop existing talent could globally.
Growing Risk: Employee benefit schemes Owner: Chief Executive Officer & Group Finance Director Description: Fenner has a number of Controls and mitigation: Developments in the year: Increased employee benefit schemes including Scheme structures are under continual lifespans and low bond rates have increased defined benefit post-retirement and US review using professional advisors.
Introducing Auto-enrolment has healthcare schemes.
The Group has reinvested All options including insurance are significant funds to match liabilities, considered.
Impact: Risks arise from exposure to reducing deficit volatility.
changes in legislation, interest rates, See note 27 to the Group financial investment returns, dividends and life statements on pages 99 to 104. expectancy which can increase year-on-year costs to Fenner.
Risk Trend Strategic relevance Strong Resilient Risk: Health & Safety Owner: Chief Executive Officer & Operational management Description: With over 5,000 employees Controls and mitigation: Developments in the year: Our level of LTIs across 20 territories, working in a variety of Fenner has a deeply embedded culture shows continued reduction.
Quinquennial roles and dealing with complex equipment, of H&S, codified in our Health, Safety revision and refresh of The Framework.
frequently on third party sites, exposes the and Environmental Management System See pages 30 to 32.
Group to risks from accidents and incidents.
Impact: Injuries, perhaps serious, result in The Group operates global training and lost time, reduced employee morale and seminars and has operational possibly changes in working practices.
management with responsibility for Serious incidents can also affect Fenners Risk Trend Strategic H&S.
reputation with some large customers relevance H&S KPIs are monitored regularly by requiring a minimum health and safety the Group.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 16 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Risk: Adequacy of operations Owner: Chief Executive Officer & Operational management Description: Fenners business model of Controls and mitigation: Developments in the year: Capex performance-critical applications requires Fenner manufactures in 34 major investment of 27.7m has been made total assurance in quality and reliability facilities in 11 different territories.
This in the year to ensure our facilities and across all our operating locations and provides backup capacity in several of equipment produce market leading their products.
The Group invests significantly in new Impact: A loss of production capability at capex and has strong quality standards a facility, or quality failings in products, and methodologies in the businesses.
could affect reputation, lead to an There are robust procedures and Risk Trend Strategic inability to supply customers, reduce policies for reviewing, negotiating and relevance volumes and or increase claims made accepting terms and conditions of against the businesses under Growing supply.
The Group uses third party guarantees and warranties.
Resilient Risk: Regulatory requirements and ethics Owner: Chief Executive Officer & Executive Committee Description: Operating in the markets and Controls and mitigation: Developments in the year: Enhanced territories that we do, there is exposure to Fenner has strict procedures and narrative reporting requirements.
Sanctions compliance with a wide variety of regulatory processes for inappropriate behaviours, limiting market opportunities and customer requirements, which continues to grow.
including written policies, a blame free queries relating to conflict minerals.
Maintaining ethical standards across culture, internal audit and training.
Group and operational management continually monitor and assess relevant Impact: Failure to comply with all relevant regulatory requirements.
regulatory and ethical requirements could affect our reputation and or our ability to operate in certain markets or territories.
Risk Trend Strategic As well as the cost of compliance, changing relevance regulations could affect our ability to Strong manufacture certain products or the Resilient demand for those products.
