Fidessa group plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report continued Risk factors and uncertainties There are a number of potential risk factors that could have a material adverse effect on Fidessas operations, its financial results or the value and liquidity of its securities.
The following table identifies some of the primary risk factors but is not intended to be exhaustive.
Whilst there has been no overall change to Fidessas risk profile from previous years, the Board has included bribery, corruption and fraud in the table below to highlight to shareholders the Boards oversight on the controls in that area.
There may also be risks that are not currently considered to be serious or which are currently unknown.
Where reasonably possible, Fidessa has taken steps to mitigate the risks or potential risks but it cannot entirely safeguard against all of them.
Additionally, and where feasible, Fidessa has purchased insurance to mitigate against known or potential risk.
Risk factor Risk impact and mitigation Economic conditions and competitors: Instability of the financial system, market disruptions Impact: adverse economic conditions or the activities of or suspensions competitors could harm Fidessas revenue, profit, growth A material downturn in financial markets or and cash flow over a sustained period.
economic recession The insolvency, closure, consolidation or nationalisation Mitigation: Fidessas business model generates a high level of parts of its customer base of recurring revenue which lessens the immediate effect of Competitors actions leading to loss of customers downturns in end markets or competitor actions.
In addition, Fidessa is a global business which provides resilience against regional recession.
Fidessas service line structure together with dialogue with customers, research and marketing activities help provide focus to maintain a competitive advantage.
Service: Inability to access an office or data centre facility Impact: a failure in the delivery of an aspect of service or a Delay to or failure of an implementation of Fidessa software error could immediately and materially damage software or service Fidessas revenue, profit, growth and reputation.
Lack of access to the Fidessa services or failure of data transmission from Fidessa data centres Mitigation: through established controls and procedures, Saturation of network or infrastructure capacity including a rigorous test process, Fidessa aims to prevent Software error or external interference for individual or many of these risks materialising.
In addition, the service multiple customers causing trading errors or preventing environment is monitored using tools and processes so customers from trading that issues arising can be detected and reacted to at an Fidessa products or services cause customers to early stage.
In designing and managing facilities, the breach regulations resilience and capacity are of high importance so that Test trades entering a live market continuity of service is expected.
Fidessas regulatory teams monitor applicable requirements and advise on how they are to be reflected in the software and services.
Fidessa group plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Risk factor Risk impact and mitigation Security and data: Unauthorised access to and or breach of systems, Impact: a security or customer data breach may network or premises immediately and materially affect Fidessas reputation Loss, corruption or misuse of customer data with possible implications for revenue and growth over the shortto medium-term.
Such a breach may also cause financial loss.
Mitigation: Fidessa has robust information and physical security policies and procedures, managed by dedicated information security staff, which provide a substantial level of protection.
Fidessa limits access to systems, office and data centre areas to appropriate personnel.
Penetration and security testing is undertaken to monitor the effectiveness of security and identify areas for improvement.
Separation between the corporate network and the customer network further reduces security risk.
Legal: Contractual risk Impact: an injunction against Fidessa in connection with Claims for infringement of a third partys a breach of a third partys intellectual property right intellectual property could prevent Fidessa from delivering its full portfolio of Infringement of Fidessas intellectual property products and services whilst contesting that injunction.
Other legal actions brought by or against Fidessa may have an impact on profit and cash balances.
Mitigation: Fidessa maintains a rigorous process for approving contractual terms and deliverables to control the level of risk that is accepted.
Fidessa controls its product development processes to focus on its own innovation and intellectual property and seeks to protect its own inventions through the development of a patent portfolio.
Employees: Loss of key employees Impact: the loss of key employees or a skills shortage Skills shortage may have an effect on Fidessas ability to implement its strategies and business plans over the shortto medium-term.
Mitigation: Fidessa recognises that it is important to provide a stimulating environment in which to work, and provide the development and training to create successful careers whilst also rewarding fairly and competitively.
Fidessa group plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report continued Risk factor Risk impact and mitigation Financial: Impact: the occurrence of some of the financial risks Foreign exchange fluctuations on transactions or highlighted may weaken cash balances, revenue and profit balances that are denominated in a foreign currency over the short-term.
Collapse of financial institutions holding Fidessas cash deposits Mitigation: Fidessa has an established treasury policy that Acquisition or disposals and their potential negative limits the level of single counterparty risk and foreign impact on profitability exchange hedging is not necessary as a significant level of Impairment of goodwill arising from acquisitions natural hedge exists.
Fidessas business strategy does not require acquisitions to provide growth and being technology led there are likely to be few.
Where acquisition opportunities are identified, appropriate due diligence is undertaken.
Bribery, corruption and fraud: Impact: instances of bribery, corruption or fraud may Anti-bribery policies are not followed damage Fidessas reputation, weaken revenue if customers Bribery and corruption are endemic in cancel or do not renew their contracts and result in certain jurisdictions financial loss.
Fraudulent activities or theft by employees Collusion between employees and customers suppliers Mitigation: Fidessa has an established set of anti-bribery policies and an established training programme.
Fidessa has security processes, including access controls, in place for key business areas.
Access to bank accounts is monitored centrally.
Regulation: Impact: failure to comply with changes in regulations that Changes in regulations in financial markets affecting concern Fidessas software, services or operations may the software and services that Fidessa provides have an impact on Fidessas reputation, revenue and cash Health and safety and environmental regulation balances over the shortto medium-term.
affecting Fidessas operations Mitigation: Being a workflow provider, changes in financial market regulation are normally beneficial for Fidessas business.
It has a team of specialists who monitor regulatory developments and how they need to be reflected in the products and services offered.
Fidessa maintains awareness of applicable laws that are likely to affect its operations whilst developing procedures and providing training that is designed to ensure compliance.
Advice is obtained from external experts as necessary.
