Risks and uncertainties Our risk management approach We have a well-established risk management methodology which we Board and Audit Committee use throughout the business to allow us to identify and manage the principal risks that could: adversely impact the safety or security of the Groups employees, customers and or assets have a material impact on the financial or operational performance of the Group impede achievement of the Groups strategic objectives and Internal Risk financial targets: and or Audit Group adversely impact the Groups reputation or stakeholder expectations As set out on pages 59 and 60, the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control.
Risk management structure Whilst some risks such as fuel costs and treasury risk are managed at a Group level see pages 38 and 39, all of our businesses own and manage the risks they face with appropriate assistance from the Group Business divisions functions as necessary.
This assistance includes the facilitation of the risk identification and management process.
Each division has a designated Risk Champion who maintains a divisional risk register.
These are reviewed and consolidated into a Group Risk Register which is kept under review on a quarterly basis by the Risk Group which is made up of a number of members of the senior management team.
The Risk Group also oversees the Groups risk management activities.
As such, the Risk Group is part of the leadership structure as outlined on page 54.
The Internal Audit team works closely with the Risk Group to ensure that the audit plan is appropriately risk-based.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Groups principal risks are set out overleaf.
These risks have been assessed taking into account their potential impact, the likelihood of occurrence and any change to this compared to the prior year and the residual risk after the implementation of controls.
A description of each principal risk, its potential impact on the Group, any movement in the risk during the year and risk mitigation measures are provided.
Each risk is linked to the relevant strategic objectives, which are detailed on page 10.
The risks listed do not comprise all those highlighted by our risk management processes or those that may otherwise affect the Group or any particular division, nor are those that are listed set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be less material, may also impact our business.
Any movement shown does not necessarily indicate a change in the overall net risk associated with the particular issue during the current or future years after mitigating factors and actions have been taken into account.
Further information on our risk management processes is contained in the Directors and corporate governance report on pages 59 and 60.
FirstGroup 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Strategic objectives 1 Focused and disciplined bidding in our contract businesses 2 Driving growth through attractive commercial propositions in our passenger revenue businesses 3 Continuous improvement in operating and financial performance 4 Prudent investment in our key assets fleets, systems and people 5 Maintain responsible partnerships with our customers andcommunities Risk Potential impact Movement Mitigation during the year 1 2 3 5 Economic and political conditions Economic conditions, political Reduced demand for public Some areas of the Groups business offer a developments and changes in transportation.
degree of protection against economic conditions government policy affecting the in specific geographic markets.
Reduced funding for and spending Economic recovery markets in which the Group by local and national governments Certain current rail franchises have revenue in the UK and North operates, whether at a global, and other customers on public or support and profit sharing arrangements in place.
America is variable by regional or national level, could student transport.
Some but not all of the new franchises currently state and region.
have a negative impact on the being let also contain a degree of protection from Changes to market structure or Groups businesses and its ability macro-economic factors.
dynamics resulting in lost business to grow existing businesses and or loss of future opportunity.
To an extent, our UK Bus operating companies retain or win new contracts.
The are able to modify services in reaction to economic same factors could also affect our Inability to pass on fully to and political impacts.
customers the impact of increased key suppliers.
Our Greyhound operations have flexibility to modify services in response to reduced demand, Supplier failure, or nonparticularly in the United States.
performance, resulting in supply chain disruption.
The Group monitors the financial health of key suppliers and identifies alternatives to ensure Group supply chain resilience.
We regularly engage with senior policy makers in the UK and North America to discuss the emerging policy landscape in respect of our core business activities.
We do this directly and indirectly through industry organisations and trade associations.
4 Attraction and retention of key management Attracting and retaining key Inability to execute Group strategy The Group-wide succession planning process and members of senior management is resulting in reduced profitability performance development approach is designed vital in ensuring that the Group and growth.
to identify talented individuals, set development Whilst attraction and continues to have the necessary goals for progression to other roles and to assess retention of key expertise and continuity to execute the depth of talent and any gaps throughout the management may its strategy.
The Group also offers become more market-based compensation packages consisting challenging as the of an appropriate mix of long and short term economy recovers, our incentives.
defined business plans, including development ofmore attractive commercial propositions, have enabled us to attract and retain highquality management.
1 Rail refranchising As discussed on page 29, we are Lower UK Rail division contribution The Group has an experienced and dedicated involved in a number of rail franchise and profitability.
rail bid team which will continue to compete for competitions.
Competition for new franchises as they are re-let.
Incorrect bid assumptions leading All of the Groups UK rail franchises is expected to be to greater than anticipated costs The Group also has a comprehensive review Rail franchises will intense.
We bid against operators or losses.
process for bids as they are developed and expire between 2014 of current UK rail franchises and finalised involving a number of divisional and and 2016.
Direct rail operators from other countries, Group functions as well as formal Board awards have been principally from within the sign off.
made in the year to European Union.
extend the First Capital Connect and First Great Western rail franchises.
FirstGroup 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk Potential impact Movement Mitigation during the year 1 Contracted businesses The Group is required to comply Potential termination of the relevant Compliance with rail franchise conditions is closely with certain conditions as part of its rail franchise agreement and managed and monitored on a monthly basis by UK Rail franchise agreements.
possibly others if cross-default is senior management and procedures are in place Whilst First Transits invoked, resulting in loss of revenue to minimise the risk of non-compliance.
The Groups First Student and First contract retention rate and cash flow as well as some or all Transit businesses are contracted The relevant divisions have experienced and remained stable during of the amounts set aside as security businesses dependent on the dedicated bid teams who undertake careful the year, First Students for performance bonds and season ability to renew and secure new economic modelling of contract bids and, retention rate was ticket bonds.
contract wins on profitable terms.
where possible, seek to negotiate risk sharing slightly reduced Loss of business, or failure to arrangements with the relevant customer or reflecting our focus on renew, leading to reduced revenue contracting authority.
In First Student, as described on pages 14 and 15, Incorrect bid assumptions leading we have accelerated the contract portfolio to greater than anticipated costs pricing programme to focus capital on higher or losses.
1 2 3 4 5 Competitive pressures All of the Groups businesses Reduced passenger numbers and The Group continues to focus on service quality compete in the areas of pricing revenues.
and performance as priorities in making our and service and face competition services attractive to passengers and other No material change from a number of sources.
Our main competitors include the In our contract businesses, contract compliance, private car and existing and new a competitive bidding strategy and a strong public and student transport bidding team are key.
operators across all our markets.
In addition, wherever possible, the Group As mentioned on page 29, works with local and national bodies to promote competition for UK Rail franchises measures aimed at increasing demand for public remains intense including from transport and the other services that we offer.
anumber of other large public and state-owned entities active in themarket.
3 Treasury risks As set out in further detail in note 24 Foreign currency and interest rate The Groups treasury policy and delegated to the financial statements on movements impact profit, balance authorities are reviewed periodically to ensure pages 125 to 130, treasury risks sheet and cash flows of the Group.
compliance with best practice and to control The rights issue include liquidity risks and risks and monitor these risks appropriately.
Ineffective hedging arrangements announced in May 2013 arising from changes to foreign may not fully mitigate losses or may The Group is continuously focused on improving decreased the Groups exchange rates and interest rates.
operating and financial efficiency as part of liquidity risk but its our strategic objectives as outlined on page 10.
The Group is credit rated by A downgrade in the Groups credit credit rating remains Standard & Poors and Fitch.
ratings to below investment grade subject to the may lead to increased financing methodology and costs and other consequences and metrics adopted by the affect the Groups ability to invest in credit ratings agencies.
FirstGroup 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Strategic objectives 1 Focused and disciplined bidding in our contract businesses continued 2 Driving growth through attractive commercial propositions in our passenger revenue businesses 3 Continuous improvement in operating and financial performance 4 Prudent investment in our key assets fleets, systems and people 5 Maintain responsible partnerships with our customers andcommunities Risk Potential impact Movement Mitigation during the year 3 4 Pensions The Group sponsors or participates Material changes in the accounting Through diversification of investments, hedging in a number of significant defined cost and cash contributions required.
of liabilities, amendment of the defined benefit benefit pension schemes.
promises and the introduction of defined No material change contribution for new starts in UK Bus and Group, Future cash contribution during the year.
the Group has reduced these risks.
requirements may increase or decrease based upon financial Under the UK Rail franchise arrangements, markets, notably investment the Groups train operating companies are not returns valuations, the rates used to responsible for any residual deficit at the end of a value the liabilities and through franchise so there is only short term cash flow risk changes to life expectancy.
3 Fuel costs Fuel is a significant component of High prices, increased volatility of The Group regularly enters into forward hedging the Groups operating costs.
Fuel fuel prices or supply restrictions, contracts providing fixed fuel prices.
In addition, prices and supply levels can be shortages or interruptions could the Group may limit the impact of unexpected fuel No material change influenced significantly by adversely impact the Groups price rises through efficiency and pricing during the year.
international, political and operations, cash flow and measures.
The Group may be unable to pass increased costs on fully to customers.
Ineffective hedging arrangements may not fully mitigate losses or may increase them.
5 Terrorism The threat from terrorism is Reduced public confidence in We continue to develop and apply good practice, enduring and continues to exist in public transportation, and or and train our employees so that they can identify the countries in which we operate.
specifically in the Groups security and respond effectively to any potential threat No material change Public transport has previously and safety record.
been subject to attack and it Reduced profits resulting from remains important that we take all reduced demand for our services, reasonable steps to help guard increased costs or security against such activity on any of the requirements and or business services we operate.
FirstGroup 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk Potential impact Movement Mitigation during the year 3 4 Information technology The Group relies on information Loss of revenue and increased As a result of the continuing threat of cyber-attacks operating costs due to increased technology in all aspects of its the Group has increased its dedicated IT security business.
Any significant disruption capital, security, fines, penalties or resource which, in conjunction with policies and insurance requirements.
Web and mobile sales orfailure, caused by external procedures and extensive security controls, is channels are of factors, denial of service, computer designed to enhance the resilience and security Prolonged failure of our sales increasing importance viruses orhuman error could result of the Groups information technology systems websites could adversely affect across many of in a service interruption, accident and the data they contain.
or misappropriation of confidential The Group has strengthened its IT project Failure to manage properly information including credit card management capability during the year.
implementation of new IT systems andpersonal data.
Process may result in increased costs and failure, security breach or other or lost revenue.
operational difficulties may also lead to revenueloss.
Successful delivery and implementation of the Greyhound IT transformation plan is required to improve yield management and drive future growth.
1 2 3 4 5 Customer service The Groups revenues are at risk if Contracts not renewed, revenue Customer service is one of our five core values it does not continue to provide the levels reduced or negative impact see page 6.
The relevant employees undertake level of service expected by on brand image.
intensive training programmes to ensure that they No overall material are aware of, and abide by, the levels of service customers.
change in the year that are required by our customers in each although, as noted business.
on page 27, UK Bus Ongoing engagement with customers and achieved an community stakeholders takes place across the improvement in the Group, including through meet the manager annual independent events, customer panels, consultations and local Passenger Focus partnerships.
The Board also monitors customer service KPIs to ensure that strict targets are being met.
3 4 5 Legislation and regulation Our businesses are subject to Increased costs of compliance with The Group has embedded operating policies and numerous laws and regulations existing or changes in regulation or procedures in all our businesses to ensure covering a wide range of matters legislation.
compliance with existing legislation and regulation.
Our businesses including health and safety, Reduction in operational flexibility We have dedicated legal teams in the UK and North continue to experience equipment, employment including or efficiency.
America who oversee the Groups compliance and changes in the working time, wage and hour and training programmes and advise on emerging issues.
Financial and reputational impact legislative and legislation covering mandatory of failure to comply.
The Group closely monitors the impact of changes in breaks, competition and anti-trust, the regulatory and legal environment and actively environmental, insurance coverage Negative impact on ability to bid for engages with Government and transport bodies to and other operating issues.
help ensure that we are properly positioned to laws and regulations are constantly respond to any proposed changes.
FirstGroup 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Strategic objectives 1 Focused and disciplined bidding in our contract businesses continued 2 Driving growth through attractive commercial propositions in our passenger revenue businesses 3 Continuous improvement in operating and financial performance 4 Prudent investment in our key assets fleets, systems and people 5 Maintain responsible partnerships with our customers andcommunities Risk Potential impact Movement Mitigation during the year 5 Litigation and claims The Group has three main insurable Increased costs, reduced The Group has a very strong focus on safety and, risks: third party injury and other availabilityof insurance cover, as described on page 6, it is one of our five core claims arising from vehicle and orreputational impact.
The Group self-insures third party and The claims environment, general operations, employee employee injury claims up to a certain level A large single claim or a large particularly in our North injuries and property damage.
commensurate with the historical risk profile.
number of smaller claims may American businesses It purchases insurance above these limits from The Group is also subject to other negatively affect profitability remains a challenge reputable global insurance firms.
Claims are litigation, particularly in North andcash flow.
despite our continued managed by experienced claims handlers.
America, which is not insured, focus on safety.
including contractual claims and Non-insured claims are managed by the Groups those relating to employee wage dedicated in-house legal team with external and hour matters.
3 4 5 Employee costs and relations Employee costs represent the High employee turnover leading to The Group seeks to mitigate these risks by its largest component of the Groups higher than expected increases in recruitment and retention policies, training the cost of recruitment, training operating costs.
Labour shortages schemes and working practices.
No material change or decreasing unemployment rates and our employee costs.
Our working practices include building during the year.
could hinder the Groups ability to Operational disruption and reduced communication and engagement with trade recruit and retain qualified cash flow and profitability from unions and the wider workforce.
of this engagement include regular leadership Our employees are key to service conferences, employee surveys and the delivery and therefore it is presence of Employee Directors Directors voted important that good employee for by the employees to represent them on many relations are maintained.
of the Groups UK divisional boards and the Board.
3 4 5 Environmental Environmental, reputational or The Groups operations store and To mitigate these risks, the Groups storage manage large quantities of fuel at financial loss resulting from facilities are subject to regular inspection and remediation of incidents, our maintenance sites, which we have detailed fuel handling procedures which No material change presents a potential regulatory and prosecutions and or penalties.
financial risk in the event of Increased costs of compliance due Robust environmental policies, strategies and significant loss or spillage and are to regulatory requirements.
management systems are maintained across subject to ongoing changes in the Group.
The Group continues to target reductions in its Along with all businesses we face emissions, including through behaviour change the challenge of addressing climate initiatives and investment in new technology.
change, both through managing its impact and reducing emissions.
4 5 Severe weather and natural disasters Reduced profits resulting from The geographic spread of the Groups businesses Many of our operations are experiencing greater and more lower demand for our services, offers some protection.
In addition, some of our frequent adverse weather increased costs, business contract based businesses have force majeure This year, our North disruption leading to reduced or disruption and increased accidents.
We have severe weather action cancelled services and reduced American businesses plans and procedures to manage the impact on experienced customer demand.
unprecedented severe weather, affecting operational and financial performance.
FirstGroup 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
