STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION S K S I R L A I C T N RISK, POLICIES, PROCEDURES, MANAGEMENT ACTIONS A H A S N A G C I G L F S N I T C O I I S S R R O V R R E U I G O E N T T U R T T V I L I N R E A A N O T S O O O O N R L D A Y C S M C N R N I E S A D K S S K S I R E T A RISK MANAGEMENT ANDINTERNAL CONTROLS Alents fully integrated system of risk management and Risk management roles internal controls provides visibility and accountability for Ultimately the Board is responsible for the Groups risk risks throughout the Group.
management and internal control frameworks and it regularly reviews insurance and other measures adopted Risk assessment approach to manage risks within the Group.
Additionally, the Audit Alent faces a wide range of risks across its global business.
Committee regularly monitors, reviews and evaluates the Efficient and effective management of these risks is at the effectiveness of the risk management system and internal centre of the way the Group operates.
The risk assessment approach is designed to identify, The Board delegates a level of risk management to the categorise and assess in terms of impact and likelihood Executive Management team through a series of Group ofoccurrence, both before and after control mitigation, policies and delegated authority matrices.
Executive the key risks facing the business.
Management discharges this responsibility through its As illustrated in the diagram below, Alent plc lies at the Executive Risk Committee, which reviews, evaluates, very centre of the Groups risk assessment process, and mitigates and reports on risks within the Group.
These risks utilises various different controls and risk mitigation factors include economic, financial, operational and regulatory.
to protect itself from both the existing and potential risks The Executive Risk Committee meets regularly and ithas identified that could impact the business.
provides the Board with updates on any risks that could Alents risk management framework provides a consistent have a material impact on the Group, assessing the approach to dealing with risk throughout the Group.
impact and likelihood of occurrence before, and after, Risksare identified and mitigated at every level within the mitigating controls.
Where applicable, risks are aggregated and all Group risks and mitigation actions are shared with the operating companies to ensure consistency of mitigation and localisation where possible.
Not all risks are within the control of the Group.
However, the Groups approach to risk management ensures it has controls in place to reduce the impact of any such risks wherever possible, should they occur.
ALENT PLC BOARD EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVE RISK COMMITTEE ALENT PLC DIVISIONAL MANAGEMENT ASSEMBLY MATERIALS AND SURFACE CHEMISTRIES OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT REGIONAL AND LOCAL MANAGEMENT WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 31 R O P R O C G L L O A A B M N S C A L N A L L A, D R O O C E K N O I E C E O T R T O O R R N N I C N P I S T T T T O K N I A O R S N M T I R U O R C Y O E F, S L P K A S L C S D O E I T R N V E L REPORTING A E A N L O I T A R E P O RISK MANAGEMENT ANDINTERNAL CONTROLS CONTINUED Throughout its global operations, the Group faces various risks, bothinternal and external, which could have a material impactonthe Groups long-term performance.
The Group manages the risk inherent in its operations in order to mitigate exposure to all forms of risk, where practical, andto transfer risk to insurers, where cost-effective.
The risks below are not the only risks the Group will face.
Some risks are not yet known and some could change their level of materiality and impact on the Group in the future.
Allof these risks could materially affect the Group, its business units, and results of future operations or financial condition.
RISK KEY ACTIONS TREND ECONOMIC RISK A review of intelligence related to our end-markets to ensure that anydeterioration in those markets is identified early, communicated End-market and macro economic risks appropriately and acted upon.
The financial performance and financial The Board regularly reviews Group strategy, which determines the position of the Group may be adversely markets in which the Group operates.
The current spread of the affected by a significant weakening in Groupsbusiness, both geographically and by end-market served, demand in its core end-markets and provides some protection to the Group should conditions in particular  conditions.
Cost-reduction initiative and the cost base remains tightly controlled.
Counter-party risk Counter-parties are chosen carefully so that those with poor credit During an economic financial downturn, there ratings and reputations are avoided by the Group wherever possible.
is an increased possibility that organisations Surplus cash positions and bank balances held at subsidiary level are with which the Group has either trading or reviewed on a regular basis by the Groups treasury department and financial relationships may not honour their actions taken where appropriate.
Group companies must hold adequate and specific reserves against possible bad debts.
FINANCIAL RISK The Groups treasury policies and procedures require operating companies to hedge material exposures arising from foreign Foreign exchange currencytransactions, utilising forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Groups financial position and trading The Group does not attempt to hedge the translational impact of results may be adversely affected by exchange rate movements on reported earnings.
For key operating currencies, the Group manages the translational impact of exchange rate movements on its assets by broadly matchingthe currency profile of its borrowings with the currencies ofitsasset base.
OPERATIONAL RISK Significant investments in research and development are made to sustain competitive advantage and to ensure that the Group remains Technology and innovation able to front-run emerging trends and maintain its leadership position Alent may lose customers to competitors with interms of innovation and product development in its market niches.
new or alternative technologies if its businesses The Group applies for patents over its products, technologies either do not adequately adapt to market andprocesses in a number of jurisdictions, encompassing all developments or are unable to protect, geographic regions.
maintain and enforce its intellectual property.
New product and service offerings by competitors are regularly monitored and any perceived breach of Group registered patents, know-how or designs is vigorously challenged.
The Group avoids holding key intellectual property in countries which do not afford an acceptable degree of legal protection to Alent.
32 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION RISK KEY ACTIONS TREND Personnel The Group has created comprehensive development opportunities The loss of key personnel or the failure tointroduce, reinforce and further strengthen employee talents.
toattract, develop or retain skilled or The Group utilises a variety of programmes tailored to help qualifiedemployees could negatively itsemployees enhance their performance, set and achieve impactthe Group.
objectives, develop their leadership skills and recognise and rewardtheir achievements.
A succession planning programme with an identified succession plan isin place for senior members of staff.
The Remuneration Committee approves fit-for-purpose employee compensation and incentive programmes.
Raw material prices The Group has processes in place to ensure that any increase The Groups future prospects, financial position ordecrease in the cost of commodity metal prices are passed and results of operations could be adversely ontoitscustomers.
affected if it is unable to pass on to its Group systems are automatically uploaded with LME London Metal customers fluctuations in the prices of the Exchange prices or equivalent on a daily basis.
These prices are then rawmaterials which it purchases.
agreed and passed on to the customer at the time of placing an order.
Exposure to loss of key manufacturing The Group delivers its products on a just in time basis from a assets manufacturing base located around the world.
Its copy exact The loss of key manufacturing assets as a result manufacturing structure allows the Group to produce products to of a major catastrophe could cause significant thesame specification across all of its global manufacturing sites.
disruption and lead to temporary plant The Groups procurement strategy ensures that it has agreements closures or suspension of operations and inplace with regional suppliers across the globe and can increase production which could negatively impact itssupply of raw materials in each region as necessary.
theGroups business and financial position.
Business continuity plans are established and are regularly reviewed and updated as necessary to ensure they remain relevant.
REGULATORY RISK Executives and line managers at all levels are directly responsible through the normal management structure for HS&E matters in the Environmental, health and safety operations under their control.
The changing regulatory environment, Group facilities are certified as being ISO compliant to quality, particularly in emerging markets, and environmental and health and safety standards, by a third futureexpenditure on compliance with partyregistrar.
environmental and health and safety laws and The Group has in place an insurance programme covering all of its regulations may adversely affect the Groups businesses which provides an acceptable level of coverage for the future prospects, financial position and results operational risks which they face.
Failure to comply with laws, regulations As part of its planning process before entering a new market or territory, andrestrictions ethics and governance or expanding in an existing market or territory, the Group undertakes a Should the Groups businesses fail to comply rigorous assessment of the risks involved.
with applicable legal and regulatory The spread of the Groups major businesses, both geographically and requirements, this may result in a financial by end-market served, provides some protection to the Group should lossor restriction on their ability to operate.
any of its businesses be adversely impacted by legal, regulatory or other changes in an individual market or territory.
The Group has in place an insurance programme covering all of its businesses which provides an acceptable level of coverage for the keyrisks which they face.
T rend indicates perception of how risk has moved year-on-year.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 33
