Managing our Risks Our approach to risk management is not intended to eliminate risk Fresnillo plc recognises entirely, but rather to provide the structural means to identify, prioritise and manage the risks involved in our activities.
that risk is inherent in Specifically, we continue to embed a culture of risk awareness through an effective risk governance structure and increasingly efficient allbusiness activities.
risk management processes within each functional area, including finance, HSECR, human resources, procurement, IT, legal, security and Successful management insurance management, as well as across all mine sites, exploration and development projects.
of these risks, therefore, is key to accomplishing Governance The Board of Directors is responsible for maintaining the Companys risk our strategic goals.
management and internal control systems.
The Boards mandate includes defining risk appetite and monitoring risk exposures to ensure that the Assuch, we maintain nature and extent of significant risks taken by the Company are aligned with our overall goals and strategic objectives.
acomprehensive risk The Audit Committee supports the Board of Directors in monitoring our management framework risk exposures and is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of our risk management and internal control systems.
Internal Audit supports that serves to identify, the Audit Committee in evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of our risk mitigation strategies and the internal controls implemented assess and respond to by management.
Executive Management reviews strategic objectives and risk appetite, ourprincipal risks.
assesses the level of risk attendant to achieving these objectives, and incorporates controls into the strategic and operating plans to mitigate them.
This top-down risk identification and assessment process helps to ensure that the bottom-up process is aligned with and focused on current strategy and objectives.
Risk management framework diagram The Board Top-down Has overall responsibility Sets strategic objectives Monitors the nature and Provides direction on Oversight, for the Groups risk and defines risk appetite extent of risk exposure the importance of risk identification, management and against risk appetite for management and risk assessment and internal controls system our principal risks management culture mitigation of risk at corporate level Executive Committee Audit Committee Internal Audit Assesses and mitigates our risks Supports the Board in monitoring Supports the Audit Committee Company-wide riskexposure against risk appetite in reviewing the effectiveness of our risk management and internal Monitors our risk management Reviews the effectiveness of our controls systems process and internal controls risk management and internal controls systems Bottom-up Operational level Identification, assessment and Risk management process and Risk identification, assessment Risk awareness and safety culture mitigation of risk internal controls embedded across andmitigation performed across embedded across the business atbusiness unit functional areas, mining operations, thebusiness level and across projects and exploration sites functional areas | 42 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Maturity of the risk management system The annual and on-going elements of the risk management process have been formalised, including the risk identification, assessment and 2 monitoring processes.
We continue working towards embedding a risk 2 management culture amongst all employees, who show increasingly 1 greater awareness.
7 Key developments in 2014 included: risk management competency 3 being incorporated into annual staff performance reviews and the 4 6 5 5 implementation of software to automate the assessment of risks in 4 11 all our business units, projects and exploration offices.
We continued 8 to report quarterly on key risk indicators KRIs for our principal risks in order to detect and analyse trends, thereby allowing us to mitigate them more effectively.
9 10 10 9 We will continue to build on our existing risk management framework, enhancing risk governance and management across the business in line with the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In order to support the Board responsibilities of i monitoring and reviewing risk management and internal control systems: ii satisfying itself that they are functioning effectively: and iii that corrective action is being taken where necessary, in addition to the permanent risk management activities, our priorities for 2015 are to: Likelihood develop a continuous monitoring process consisting of validating the effectiveness of current controls: Unlikely Almost certain continue promoting process ownership at the business unit level firstline of defence through periodic reporting of the effectiveness 2014 X2013 X ofcontrols that mitigate process risks: and increase the scope and robustness of the risk framework for project Risk development governance.
Impact of global macroeconomic developments silver and gold prices 2014 risk assessment 2.
Access to land The annual risk assessment exercise across all our operations, advanced 3.
Security projects, exploration offices, support and corporate areas identified and 4.
P otential actions by the government evaluated 104 risks in 2014.
This universe was narrowed down into major e. g. taxes more stringent regulations risks monitored by Executive Management and the Audit Committee, and then further consolidated into the principal risks monitored by Executive 5.
Public perception against mining Management and the Board of Directors.
P rojects performance risk For the bottom-up process, the teams in charge of each business 7.
Safety unit determined the perceived level of risk for their individual unit.
Exploration Executive Management then reviewed and challenged each perceived 9.
Union relations level through the evaluation of certain controls and relative risk levels, and compared it to Fresnillo plcs risk universe as a whole.
Human resources risk analysis was conducted on advanced projects, detailing the specific 11.
Environmental incidents risks faced by each project according to the unique characteristics and Bold text indicates those risks which have changed during 2014. conditions of each site.
We believe a number of events in the Mexican mining industry in 2014, including major environmental incidents, on-going land access issues and labour union developments, have the potential to adversely impact the entire industry.
As such we determined that certain risks facing Fresnillo plc have changed: the risk rating levels have increased for potential actions by the government, public perception against mining, and access to land: we also designated union relations as a separate principal risk from human resources, within which it had previously been included.
As with all our key risks, the Board and the Executive Committee continue to closely follow these.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 43 Very low Severe Impact Managing our Risks continued Current order Risk rating change from 2013 Risk Risk appetite 2013 2014 Change Description of risk change High Very Very Most industry and financial analysts who follow metal prices 1.
Impact of global high high continue to foresee lower average silver and gold prices for 2015 1 macroeconomic and high volatility in their five-year forecasts.
developments Medium Very Very There has been a significant increase in the number of conflicts 2.
Access to land high high between mining companies and landowners, both in Mexico and 2 internationally.
In Mexico specifically, examples include Ejido leaders who blocked access to mines, demanding the renegotiation of their land agreements: and local communities who blocked facilities or s access routes, demanding to renegotiate the sale of their lands, orincreased rent for their land or water infrastructure supply.
Additionally, judicial authorities in Mexico are more proactive in thesocial arena, placing more emphasis on citizens rights issues, thereby increasing litigation risk in the industry.
Low Very Very Although we have not experienced any material adverse impacts 3.
Security high high on our operations, the general state of insecurity in areas near 3 ouroperations and exploration projects remains negative as in previousyears.
Low Very Very The impact of the environmental incident in which acid solution 4.
Potential actions high high spilled into the Bacanuchi river Sonora, Mexico has been, and 4 bythe government, weexpect will continue to be, considerably negative for the entire e. g. implementation mining industry in Mexico.
Moreover, the timing of the incident was of a tax on mining concurrent with the Mining Law review, and combined with other companies in prevailing political interests, led to proposed amendments to the law on environmental liability, with a view to raising sanctions and Mexico, more preventing environmental accidents from going unpunished.
stringent regulations s This issue has become more of a focus for the media than for obtaining politicians: our advisers do not consider the new Mining Law permits etc.
apriority for politicians in the 2015 state elections.
Stricter environmental protocols could make it more difficult to obtain and maintain environmental impact permits.
Increased sanctions may vary from fines to permanent suspension of mining concessions.
We also expect greater involvement and pressure from the three levels of government federal, state and municipal for the conduct and enforcement of environmental affairs.
| 44 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Current order Risk rating change from 2013 Risk Risk appetite 2013 2014 Change Description of risk change Low High High The rise of social activism is a growing issue within the global mining 5.
Public perception sector, with the potential to impact all our strategic areas as well as our 5 against mining ability to maintain the social licence to operate within the communities near our operations.
There have been several examples impacting s other mining companies in Mexico.
In addition, an increasing number of organisations and social and academic groups against mining are demanding the closure of certain mining operations, including the useof civil disobedience to pressure authorities.
Medium Medium Medium Our strict investment governance process and system of capital 6.
Projects high high project controls remain in place, safeguarding our ability to deliver 6 performance risk growth through development projects on time and on budget.
Overall we feel there is sufficient availability of equipment, machinery and contractors within the industry, and with the information available wedo not expect additional cost pressure.
Low Medium Medium We have continued to reinforce our safety strategy while our major 7.
Safety high high accident indicators including fatalities are improving: however, we 7 have not reached all our safety goals for the remaining indicators.
Medium Medium Medium Continued investment in exploration puts this risk on a stable level, 8.
Exploration and we foresee no change in status based on available information.
8 Low N A Medium In August 2014, the Fourth Collegiate Court of Criminal Law 9.
Union relations low determined that the warrant against the leader of the National previously Workers Union of the Mining, Metallurgic, Steel and Similar of the included in Mexican Republic was unconstitutional and he was fully acquitted.
HR risk Fresnillos relations with the National Workers Union of the Mining and Metallurgic Napolen Gmez Sada could be affected as a consequence of the actions that the former leader might take.
Furthermore, 14,000 workers have left the National Workers Union of the Mining, Metallurgic, Steel and Similar of the Mexican Republic and set up their own union National Mining Partnership, thus there is additional uncertainty regarding the impact of inter-union politics on Fresnillo.
Medium Medium Low Competition for skilled personnel has become less intense and we 10.
Human resources s low continue to see results from our on-going university recruitment 9 activities and employee retention strategies.
Low Low Low Our environmental management system, environmental 11.
Environmental expenditures and training of personnel are key factors to 10 incidents reducetherisk of major preventable incidents.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 45
