Strategic report Principal risks Link to Strategic Priorities Key Increased risk Transform our culture through our people and values Actively manage our portfolio and performance Reduced risk No change Embed disciplined financial and risk management Invest in organic growth and customer service Make our organisation more productive Health and Safety H&S the group.
We appointed a group head resulting action plans being Risk description The provision of integrated security of health and safety to provide personally monitored by the country or leadership to our existing network of business leader.
This Step Up initiative services, often in hostile or dangerous circumstances across such a broad health and safety professionals across the will be part of a broader program, group.
We have introduced an enhanced encompassing the roll out of safety diversity of countries presents particular health and safety challenges.
Health and Safety H&S management leadership training to managers across system which has further developed our the group, as well as implementation of a The protection of our staff, people in our care and third parties, including capabilities and processes.
This has process whereby business leaders report included increasing the personal and take ownership for follow up, close the public, is of utmost importance.
We believe that accidents are responsibility borne by country Managing out and sharing of lessons learnt for any Directors for incident reporting and serious work-related incidents.
We will preventable and that zero harm is an appropriate goal.
We put safety first investigation of serious injuries, and an continue to develop our road safety enhanced safety leadership training toolkits, and the Service Excellence and prioritise the wellbeing of our employees, setting the benchmark for course for senior management.
We have Centres will continue to develop our rolled out a road safety programme mitigating strategies with regard to health and safety across the industry.
called Driving Force Rules and attacks on our people.
Our Health and The principal health and safety risks strengthened governance around Safety management system will be are work-related attacks and road firearms management.
augmented with the introduction of traffic accidents.
In 2014, 41 2013: 49 toolkits and templates to support employees lost their lives.
We are Mitigation priorities for 2015 implementation in local businesses, and committed to strengthening our Compliance with our core H&S we will review the training for our H&S health and safety systems, processes standards will continue to be monitored practitioners across the group to ensure and cultures.
and periodically audited, with reviews they are equipped to implement these of performance at a regional, group and Fatalities and serious injuries to our enhanced procedures.
An enhanced IT board level via the CSR Committee.
system for incident reporting will be staff impact not only the individuals Management incentives are aligned concerned, but also their families and implemented and self-assessments of to safety best practice.
Detailed H&S control compliance will be loved ones.
assessments of H&S practices in a integrated into the risk management and number of high-risk countries will be Movement since 2013 audit IT system.
undertaken, with implementation of the We added Safety first as a core value for Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 45 Principal risks continued Culture and Values This can lead to penalties, failure to has been undertaken, and Risk description G4S provides security to people, renew contracts and ultimately reduced management performance incentives profitability and damage to our global explicitly linked to all of the values premises and valuable assets.
In its care and justice services businesses it brand and reputation.
also provides services which interact with Movement since 2013 Mitigation priorities for 2015 detainees, victims of crime, those on state We have completed a corporate renewal On-line management training will be assistance, vulnerable people and other programme which has been assessed by implemented covering all of the G4S members of the public.
This requires our the UK government.
Demonstration of the values staff to conduct themselves with the re-launched globally, with the addition of will continue to be integral to utmost integrity.
We operate in more the Safety First value and an emphasis on management performance contracts in than 110 countries around the world delivering long-term sustainable value for 2015.
Improved whistleblowing processes with a diversity of local and national customers, employees and shareholders.
These factors mean that having a strong set of corporate values that unite We have continued to embed our A values self-assessment programme the organisation deeply embedded in human rights framework, based on the will benchmark managers views of our culture is of particular importance.
UN Guiding Principles on Business and performance versus the group values and Human Rights, into the groups practices, a global employee and management If we fail to behave in accordance with the such as our risk and compliance systems survey being undertaken this year will high standards that we set ourselves, there and processes.
provide essential feedback on how the is a risk that we will not deliver on our values are working in practice across commitment to customers, and fail to Corporate governance has been the organisation.
comply with legislation and international enhanced through the Enterprise standards.
We may also compromise the Risk Management process and safety and security of our employees and introduction of Regional Risk and the assets or people that we are protecting.
Leadership training People Risk description professionals and front line staff can In 2015 our management incentives affect customer service, customer will be further reviewed to ensure they We are a people business and we take great care to ensure that we employ the retention and sales growth, impacting are competitive, motivational and drive our financial performance.
the right behaviour, in line with our values best people to deliver quality services to our customers.
We employ 623,000 and business objectives.
Common talent Movement since 2013 review processes will be cascaded people world-wide, and are the largest G4S human resource processes are well security solutions provider in the world.
throughout the organisation, established and effective.
During 2014 we supplemented by the introduction of This means we have expertise in appointed a significant number of new screening and training, which together new leadership development programs.
individuals to management positions in This will strengthen our succession plans with our integrity and trustworthiness regions and countries around the globe.
is an important factor in why customers and support retention of key talent.
To This has included recruitment from a help employee retention at all levels of choose G4S.
range of high quality companies both the organisation, the global employee In a global and diverse business such as within and outside the security sector, as and management surveys will be ours, there are inherent risks associated well as the promotion of internal talent.
undertaken in the first half of the year, with recruiting, motivating, developing We have also invested significantly in providing rich insight into our employees and training employees on a large scale, strengthening our sales resource.
This will assist in identifying as well as appropriately rewarding and In a low-margin, low-salary business there priority areas for action, which will be retaining our critical talent and ensuring will always be challenges in retaining staff, implemented and tracked across the effective succession in management roles.
and in particular we experience this as a remainder of the year.
The recruitment of Screening is also a particular challenge in challenge in Africa and Europe.
operational employees will be augmented some territories which lack supporting by sharing best practices across the group Mitigation priorities for 2015 infrastructure from the relevant authorities.
and providing detailed guidance and On 1 July 2015 Irene Cowden will retire In these territories we identify alternative oversight to ensure appropriate screening as group HR Director.
She will be measures which are approved by group standards are met.
succeeded by Jenni Myles, who since HR to mitigate this risk as much as possible.
2011 has been the HR Director for Failure to recruit, retain, motivate and North America and Latin America, having develop key managers, sales been with G4S since 1998.
46 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Brand and Reputation were raised in 2013, and we have since considered to be high risk.
Customer Risk description We provide our customers across the won new contracts.
Globally we have satisfaction monitoring is being implemented a process for reviewing all implemented across the group.
world with a wide range of high quality, well controlled services.
Nevertheless business opportunities with regard to We are promoting G4S values and our values and the reputational risks the nature of the groups activities means communicating our desired behaviours that we can face high inherent they bring.
This enables us to make with colleagues across the group: appropriate decisions whether or not reputational risks related to the engaging proactively with ethical and countries in which we operate, the to bid.
There were material opportunities sustainability ratings agencies and during 2014 which we decided not to services we provide, the customers and analysts: and increasing our dialogue suppliers we work with, the people in bid for.
with customers on high profile contracts our care and our interactions with On occasion, services we provide meet and issues.
We have invested in an members of the public with whom our significant challenges which exceed enhanced corporate media team to colleagues come into contact.
our reputational risk appetite, at which develop relationships with and educate point we look for alternative options, commentators and journalists: and are Our reputation can be damaged when which may result in non-renewal of implementing a programme of political we fail to meet our own standards or existing contracts or disposal of risk management and engagement to the expectations of our key stakeholder certain businesses.
continue to build relationships with groups.
Service failures or behaviour politicians and regulators.
by G4S or its partners which does not Mitigation priorities for 2015 meet those standards can result in We are also enhancing our We are embedding human rights due adverse publicity and damage to the whistleblowing and case management diligence processes and reputational groups reputation.
processes, to ensure that employees considerations into our systems for can raise issues of ethics to the highest evaluating new market entries or bidding Movement since 2013 level of the organisation and to enable In the UK, we have significantly improved for new contracts.
We are also reviewing us to identify trends and emerging and auditing our performance on human our relationship with central government reputational risks.
following some high-profile issues which rights in existing markets which are Major contracts Failure to ensure effective contract and regional finance directors now Risk description The group has a number of long term, take-on, mobilise successfully and report directly to the group legal manage complex contracts effectively counsel and group CFO, providing complex, high-value contracts with multi-national, government or other throughout their lifecycles can impact greater independence.
Group internal the groups liabilities, customer audit has recruited a specialist contracts strategic customers.
The groups growth strategy includes a greater focus on satisfaction, reputation, revenue, auditor to audit both individual major cash flow, and profitability.
contracts and also the effectiveness higher value, and more technology-rich services.
This will increase the complexity of the processes described above.
Movement since 2013 and uniqueness of customer We have established Group and Mitigation priorities for 2015 requirements and contracts.
The new major contract approval, and For such contracts there are risks to In the UK, we have implemented a major 360 contract review processes the group accepting onerous contractual contract approval process with oversight implemented in the UK during 2014 will terms: mobilising contracts well: from these committees: strengthened start to be rolled out globally in 2015. transitioning effectively from mobilisation the contract on-boarding process: and to on-going contract management: rolled out a 360 contract review of all delivering to contractual requirements: aspects of our most significant contracts.
and managing complex billing A quarterly financial review of the top arrangements, contract change control 200 contracts across the group has been and sub-contractors.
Regional legal counsels Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 47 Principal risks continued Delivery of core service lines Additional risks relate to business Risk description Mitigation priorities for 2015 We deliver our core secure solutions resilience, control systems, and the The G4S Way supports the best availability of critical systems, facilities services in 91 markets and our core practice processes and standards for cash solutions services in 62 markets.
and people to perform contractually all aspects of service delivery with the agreed services.
A number of these businesses have aim of improving service excellence been acquired over time, resulting in and margin.
This can lead to financial penalties, cultural differences, varying degrees of and negatively impact customer Development of our technology solutions operational maturity and multiple retention and goodwill, to the strategy and innovation in cash services information systems.
will provide added value to our This can create risks around core customers.
Our risk management is being Movement since 2013 operational service delivery and improved by integrating the Service G4S has continued to focus on supporting functions.
Failure to meet Excellence Centre operational standards developing and consolidating the service delivery requirements of into our Governance, Risk and Control IT platforms, implementing the Service our customers, because we have not tool.
This is supported by the continued Excellence Centre programmes implemented the right solutions or implementation of our Service Excellence of standardisation, and driving and followed appropriate agreed procedures, Centre standards through an Accelerated monitoring contract formalisation can create risks around cash losses: Best Practice programme.
processes across our developing markets.
attacks on our staff, subcontractors or We have recruited new chief operating A programme of customer satisfaction third parties: and the non-delivery of monitoring is being implemented officers in a number of regions and the service level agreements and KPIs countries to drive the operational across the group.
standards expected from our customers.
Laws and Regulations Risk description through direct ownership or joint Mitigation priorities for 2015 ventures: loss of management control: G4S operates in many jurisdictions The Ethics Steering Group will globally, with complex and diverse damage to our reputation: and loss strengthen its effort to provide of customer confidence.
compliance with internal policies and procedures and we are introducing An additional complexity arises from Movement since 2013 new systems and processes for the extraterritorial reach of some of Our internal policies and procedures whistleblowing and incident the legislation to which the company clearly set out that most of these risks, management.
We will be implementing is subject.
including compliance with local laws and a process for political risk management regulations, are the direct responsibility Risks include increasing litigation and to ensure that we are monitoring of local management.
An Ethics Steering class actions: bribery and corruption: regulatory and other emerging political Group has been formed to provide failure to obtain operating licences: risks within our key markets.
This process oversight and support compliance with non-compliance with local tax will be supported by a programme the internal policies and procedures regulations: changes to employment to enhance our engagement with to mitigate the risks.
Specifically, legislation: non-compliance with human regulators, politicians and political whilst ownership of implementing rights legislation: and new or changed influencers across the group.
anti-bribery and corruption policies lies restrictions on foreign ownership.
Risk G4S continues to liaise with relevant with the business Managing Directors, also arises from new or changing governments and authorities to our legal communities have been regulations which require modification positively influence the regulatory assigned compliance oversight with a of our processes and staff training.
environments in which we work.
direct escalation route to the group legal Non-compliance with applicable laws counsel.
Also, where group internal and regulations could have far-reaching audit has identified non-compliance, consequences, including higher costs for example with licensing and labour from claims and litigation: inability to regulations, these have been reported operate in certain jurisdictions, either and acted upon.
48 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Growth strategy Failing to create higher value Risk description Mitigation priorities for 2015 Our growth strategy is to leverage solutions that differentiate us from We are making significant investments local commoditised competitors could our expertise to expand our core in our sales and business development service lines into more complex impact targeted growth in revenues systems and capabilities.
outsourcing areas which increase developing our customer relationship long-term customer partnerships: to management tools as well as our Movement since 2013 focus on organic growth opportunities approach to global account management.
We appointed Mel Brooks as group with less reliance on acquisitions: and We are taking a more rigorous approach strategy and commercial director and to leverage our expertise in security in the monthly regional pipeline reviews developed and enhanced the leadership systems technology across key markets.
and instilling improved contract pipeline and capacity of the regional commercial management disciplines.
There are risks that we will lose and strategy teams.
We have contracts or growth opportunities implemented a global account through price competition and market management structure and established changes: that we fail to successfully enter an outbound programme for working target markets or territories: that we with Chinese and North American become over-reliant on large customers: multinational clients.
We have been and that adverse government legislation innovating and developing our core changes could impact on our growth service lines through the application of potential or force exit from markets technology and consulting services.
major elements of the growth strategy have been allocated to specific members of the group executive committee to ensure integrated ownership.
Geo-political Risk description Movement since 2013 Mitigation priorities for 2015 We operate in more than 110 countries We perceive the inherent external We have a great deal of experience across the developed and developing threat to have increased in the last of operating in a wide range of difficult world, with wide-ranging government year given the backdrop of an increased territories.
We collaborate with our local and political systems, differing cultural global terror threat, the seizure of partners and or agents: conduct early landscapes, and varying degrees of rule territory by Islamic State, tensions in risk assessments before and during of law: and within conflict and postUkraine, and potential increase in security assignments: have robust conflict zones.
The risk factors range political instability and the risk of civil operating procedures: and work closely from political volatility, revolution, unrest in parts of Africa, Europe and with our local and global customers in terrorism, military intervention and Latin America.
Given the wide range of managing the risks of operating in such insurgency.
The geo-political risks we countries in which the group operates environments.
We have a global process face impact us in many ways: the health there will always be some with a degree for assessing the geopolitical risks of and safety of our staff and customers: of serious political instability.
We take different countries which determines the the continued operation of our great care with our operations in these types of customers we will serve and businesses: and the ability to secure countries to monitor the situation closely the types of services we will provide.
our assets and recover our profits.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 49 Principal risks continued Information Security Risk description Movement since 2013 Mitigation priorities for 2015 The clients, staff, suppliers and partners The sophistication of hackers continues G4S will continue to manage risks of G4S that entrust their sensitive and to increase and we see a broad range to information by integrating the confidential business information into of other corporates coming under attack.
information risk framework with the our care rightly expect that we will take Given the high profile G4S has, and the global risk framework, and will ensure all reasonable steps to protect it.
nature of our business, we believe the that risks above the risk appetite are threat of external attack has increased appropriately managed.
The G4S Given the high-profile nature of some over the year.
global information security centre of of G4S operations globally, we are at excellence will develop best practice in risk of cyber and physical attack by G4S constantly monitors attacks against coordination with regional and business criminal organisations and individual its systems and takes steps to safeguard unit committees, through the publication hackers.
There is also the risk that an business information entrusted to us.
A of policy and the identification of risk individual with legitimate access to new set of Mandatory Minimum Security with appropriate mitigation strategies.
business information could disclose it Controls have been developed and we inappropriately, or that an insider could have assessed each of our businesses We will be implementing new disrupt the availability of key systems.
compliance to these standards, monitoring and compliance systems developing plans where improvements throughout 2015 to increase our An information security breach could need to be made.
Additionally we have controls over the unstructured result in: censure and fines by national assessed the operational level security information assets held on computers, governments: loss of confidence in the of over 600 systems, capturing a risk file systems and email.
G4S brand and reputation: specific loss assessment of each system in line with of trust by clients, especially those in our group standards.
government and financial sectors: and disruption to service delivery Additionally a group IT Auditor was and integrity, particularly in cash solutions appointed to provide independent business operations.
assurance of our Mandatory Minimum Security Controls and Systems Risk Assessments.
Cash losses the regions, improvements have been new system will be implemented in Risk description We have cash solutions businesses made to processes and systems in many 2015 for businesses to conduct of our cash solutions businesses over the self-assessments twice a year.
spread across the world responsible for cash held on behalf of our customers.
Responsibility for auditing The outcome will be controlled centrally cash reconciliation in our cash processing at group level.
In 2015, we will be We provide cash transportation from one site to another in high-security centres has been transferred from the working to harmonise the standards of cash solutions SEC to group Internal Audit.
cash reconciliation audits with those of vehicles, a range of cash management services including secure storage, group Internal Audit.
We also have a Mitigation priorities for 2015 robust process to monitor all cashcounting, reconciliation and sorting of Our cash solutions SEC and group notes for ATMs: a range of ATM services: related loss incidents through a team of Internal Audit work in collaboration physical security specialists and we and secure international transportation with the regions to embed robust of cash and valuables.
ensure that lessons learned are shared procedures into every cash business to through the SEC.
There are inherent risks in this business mitigate cash losses.
Innovative security Following a reorganisation at the end of related to external attacks, internal theft defence products are in use, ranging and poor cash reconciliation.
2014, during 2015 G4S will be from pavement box tracking to vehicle integrating its UK & Ireland and protection foam and protective Cash losses can have a major impact European cash solutions businesses pavement boxes.
for our customers and ourselves in under the leadership of Graham respect of loss of profit, increased cost All cash transactions are subject to strict Levinsohn.
As well as strengthening our of insurance and health and safety authorisation limits and we have go-to market offering this will also considerations for our staff and the public.
controlled cash reconciliation procedures enable enhanced development of best that are undergoing implementation practice, which will be transmitted via Movement since 2013 across the group to ensure cash is fully the cash SEC to our cash solutions Through the work of the Service accounted for and controlled.
Those businesses in the rest of the world.
Excellence Centres SECs working with procedures are subject to audits and a 50 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
