Risk management Embedding risk management in the business What we did in 2014 Our aim is to gain a deep The improvements to our risk management processes understanding of the principal risks have continued during 2014.
The quarterly Regional Risk and Audit Committees are now well established we face at all levels of the business and similar committees have been established in the and to focus management attention larger countries.
A new Governance Risk and Control on effective mitigation of the most GRC information system has been implemented and good progress has been made in transitioning countries critical risks.
from the previous risk management system.
The new contract management approval and broad risk-based contract review process has been embedded effectively in the UK&I region.
A quarterly financial contract review Our risks process has been implemented globally.
The last year has continued to highlight the dynamic nature of the markets in which G4S operates.
The The board has provided greater formality and detail geo-political situation in the Middle East has been very concerning its risk appetite, linking it more explicitly to volatile.
Global economic recovery has been highly the groups principal residual risks and a structured risk variable.
G4S also continues to face the operational and universe.
This detailed risk appetite statement has been health and safety risks which are particular to the security shared with all the Regional Risk and Audit Committees business, along with the financial control and commercial and they have provided positive feedback on it.
During risks common to all multinational companies.
2015 the document will be shared more widely with individual countries and business units and increasingly How we manage our risks used to inform prioritisation of risk mitigation activities.
Our risks are captured in a global risk reporting information system.
These risks are reviewed at least Alastair James, who joined G4S in 2013 as Group annually by the operating companies, with more material Director of Risk and Programme Assurance, has now risks being reviewed quarterly.
The group Executive been appointed Group Director of Risk and Audit.
Risk Committee and board Risk Committee review We will continue to have separate internal audit and the most significant risks on a regular basis, and the board risk management teams reporting to Alastair but we will regularly reviews the overall impact of these major risks ensure that these processes are appropriately integrated.
What we will do in 2015 We will complete the transition of all countries to using the new GRC tool for risk management.
We will migrate existing group control standards self-assessments as well as Group Internal Audit to 2014 has seen us make significant the GRC tool from the separate platforms which support them currently.
This will enable a much greater strides in improving our risk consistency of reporting and a much tighter link between management approach.
2015 is control effectiveness and risk assessment.
about embedding this in our We will embed the newly formulated board risk appetite operations across the world.
into the business and use it to drive prioritisation of risk mitigation plans.
John Connolly Risk Committee Chairman The contract risk management processes that have been successfully implemented in the UK will be extended globally.
We will work to harmonise and simplify contract sign-off processes to ensure that they are effective without being a barrier to sales success and revenue growth.
As new processes and systems stabilise there will be an increasing focus on ensuring quality of risk assessments and progress of planned mitigating actions.
42 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Enterprise risk management governance model Board The board has ultimate responsibility for assuring Board risk management processes by reviewing the most critical Board risk committee risks and controls.
The board Risk Committee sets the groups risk appetite, assesses the groups principal Board Risk Board Audit Board audit committee residual risks and assesses The board Audit Committee Committee Committee the overall enterprise risk ensures the groups control management process.
framework is operating Meets four times per year.
Meets four times per year.
Executive risk committee Executive Risk Regional Risk and Regional risk and audit The Executive Risk committees Committee Audit Committees Committee considers the The Regional Risk and groups principal residual risks Audit Committees review: and the progress of mitigating 1. regional level risks: actions.
2. the progress of mitigating actions: and 3. quarterly audit and financial control status Operating companies Operating companies reports, internal financial Our operating companies We employ three lines of defence to control reviews and balance identify and assess the risks and manage risks across the group.
sheet integrity, and any to their business objectives accounting judgements.
and plan appropriate 1st Line: Business operations and support mitigating actions.
These are Each regional committee recorded in our group-wide Responsibility for the first line sits with the managers meets four times per year.
of our businesses, whether line management or financial support.
The senior management team within each business is responsible for implementing and maintaining appropriate controls across their business.
Result: Ensures standards expected by the group, External audit our customers and other stakeholders are met.
Independent oversight of the entire process.
2nd Line: Control and oversight functions The second line consists of oversight functions at both regional and group level including: risk, finance, legal, human resources, operations, information technology, commercial and CSR.
Result: Provides support to the business managers.
3rd Line: Internal independent assurance The third line is designed to detect or prevent unexpected outcomes and comprises the internal audit function.
As part of its annual programme of work, internal audit conducts regular reviews of risk management processes and gives advice and recommendations on how to improve the control environment.
Result: Provides independent assurance over the design and operation of controls.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 43 l a v o r p p a d i B t n e k s m i r s O a c s s d o n s i e n B u - s t r g s r a a o a n i c c n t e g Risk management continued Contract risk management and governance model Based on financial, legal, reputational and operational risk criteria.
The board risk committee will Referred to the region, group undertake a review or board as appropriate for of a major contract at review and approval.
Bids customer value proposition, commercial terms and risk Internal audit mitigation strategy are challenged.
conducts audits of Expected risk return is selected contracts.
assessed before approval is given or withheld.
Contracts subject to Key contractual requirements and on-going scrutiny at risk mitigation strategies, based on regional or group level complexity and risk profile of based on commercial mobilisation, are mapped to scale and level of risk.
There are many opportunities for growth: What are the key risks faced Broadening our service provision with by G4S?
existing customers: During February 2015, the Regional Risk and Audit Taking existing services into new countries: Committees met to agree the regional principal Bringing new high value add services to market residual risks.
These meetings were facilitated by group that build on our core competencies and brand: risk management and identified the risks to each and we should be ambitious in seeking out regions strategic business objectives and to on-going and pursuing these opportunities.
The meetings were informed by There are many opportunities to improve the productivity the country level risks recorded in the groups risk of the business see pages 24 to 27 and we should set management systems.
ambitious programmes of change and improvement.
Group risk management and the CFO consolidated these However in delivering this agenda of change and growth risks and identified common themes and regional risks we need to manage the risks we are taking on effectively: which were material to the group.
By thoroughly assessing the risks of major contracts: These group principal residual risks were reviewed applying the best resources and our best expertise: and approved by the Executive Risk Committee and and hence putting in place mitigation strategies which the Risk Committee of the board.
will control the risks to a commercially acceptable level: The groups principal residual risks must be considered By applying commercial and financial discipline in the context of the boards risk appetite, which can be and controls to manage our growth portfolio: and summarised as follows: By applying effective programme and project management to our change agenda.
G4S has a higher risk appetite with regard to growing and transforming its business.
G4S operates in high risk lines of business in which our core competence and value add is managing those risks effectively.
We should be willing to take on such business when we have the expertise to deliver and achieve a good commercial return on the risk we are accepting from our customers.
44 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 m C o o b i n l e i k t s e s r a i t a t r t i c i o d t m n r a m o o B c l a n r e t t i n d i u p a u o r G
