e c n a i e l c p n m a r u o s : c t : s 2 : h 3 a 4 g l l d i l e t e e s STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite and ensuring that appropriate risk management systems are in place.
The Board reviews the Groups principal risks throughout the year as part of its normal agenda, adopting an integrated approach to risk management regularly discussing our principal risks.
In addition, in the middle and at the end of each year, the Board assesses the Groups principal risks, taking the strength of the Groups control systems and our appetite for risk into account.
The Board delegates responsibility for day-to-day risk management to the Executive Committee, including the identification, evaluation and monitoring of key risks facing the Group and the implementation of Group-wide risk management processes and controls.
The Executive Committee is supported in this by its Sub-Committee on Governance and Risk.
The Audit Committee keeps the effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems under review and reports to the Board on the results of its review.
The occurrence of any material control issues, serious accidents or major commercial, financial or reputational issues, or the identification of new risks, are reported to the Board and or Audit Committee as appropriate.
Following changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code in 2014 we reviewed whether there are any gaps in our integrated approach to risk management at a Board level by comparing our principal risks to the topics discussed by the Board during a typical year.
As a result of this review, we will increase the level of oversight of certain principal risks and will strengthen the independent assurance provided in respect of some risks.
Whilst overall we are happy with our risk management processes, our philosophy across the Group is to seek to continuously improve.
Risk management is no exception.
How GKN manages risk The Group has four levels of defence through which it manages significant risks: Executive Sub-Committee on Governance and Risk or directly to the Level 1: Risk ownership and control Executive Committee.
The Sub-Committee reports twice a year to Our businesses are responsible for maintaining an effective risk the Executive Committee on matters relating to the Groups and control environment as part of day-to-day operations, under governance, risk management and assurance framework including the direction of the Group CEO and the Executive Committee.
This areas of concern or proposals for improvement.
includes implementation and regular monitoring and review by divisional management of processes and controls which are designed to ensure compliance with the Boards appetite for risk, Level 3: Independent assurance Group policies and the GKN Code see page 54.
These front line Independent assurance over the Groups risk management, control controls are regularly updated to respond to the Groups changing and governance processes is provided by the Groups Corporate risk profile.
Audit team, the Head of Risk and external assurance providers.
Level 2: Monitoring and compliance Level 4: Oversight Group functions monitor adherence to the procedures set out by The Board, Executive Committee and Audit Committee provide the Executive Committee and provide guidance to the businesses oversight and direction in accordance with their respective on their application.
This includes ongoing reviews by our health responsibilities, more information on which is set out in the and safety audit team and Group IT and financial control functions.
Governance section of this annual report.
Representatives of these functions report their findings to the Level 1: Risk ownership and control 42 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 n n v r e v e v e v e a L L d e O n L g e n p e i r d n o I t i n o M Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Enterprise Risk Management Principal risks and uncertainties GKNs enterprise risk management ERM programme facilitates a The nature of both our business and our strategy means that we common, Group-wide approach to the identification, analysis, and face a number of inherent risks.
The Board has carefully considered assessment of risks and the way in which they are managed, the type and extent of the principal risks to the Group achieving its controlled and monitored.
objectives and delivering a satisfactory return for shareholders.
These principal risks and uncertainties are summarised below according to the strategic objective to which they relate.
They may Identify and analyse: A broad spectrum of risks is considered also impact our objective to sustain above market growth.
The Executive Committee and the Board review the output from ERM at both a divisional and Group level.
Over time our risk profile evolves and the Boards view of the principal risks facing the Group is updated accordingly.
This year, Manage and mitigate: Management controls designed to the risk relating to integrated systems complexity has been split monitor and mitigate the risks are documented.
Risk owners are into two risks relating to contract risk and product quality.
The assigned for each risk.
Board believes that this reflects more clearly the risks associated with, respectively, revenues which are increasingly tied to long Assess: The ERM process provides a consistent set of definitions term contracts with complex terms and the increasing cost and and a common approach to risk evaluation with specific reference frequency of product recalls across the automotive industry in to likelihood and impact.
Acquisition integration has been removed as a principal risk following the successful integration of the aero engine division Respond: The risk response is based upon the assessment of of AB Volvo and we have added a risk relating to the supply chain.
potential risk exposure and the level of tolerance acceptable.
The nature of each principal risk is further described on pages The response reflects whether we accept the risk on the basis of 44 to 51 together with the corresponding mitigating actions that its assessed level of exposure and mitigating controls currently in are in place and an overview of the risk trends during 2014. place, or reduce the risk through additional mitigation to bring it in line with required levels of tolerance.
Monitor: The output from the ERM process is regularly reviewed together with the live tracking of delivery of planned improvement actions.
Strategic objectives Differentiating Leveraging a ourselves Driving Leading in our strong global through operational Risk trend chosen markets presence technology excellence Other risks Highly competitive Joint ventures Contract risk Increasing markets Programme management Product quality Supply chain Laws, regulations Technology and People capability Business continuity Stable Customer and corporate innovation Health and safety Pension funding concentration reputation Information system Operating in global resilience markets Reducing GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management Principal risks and uncertainties Leading in our chosen markets Highly competitive markets Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation GKN operates in highly competitive markets with Maintaining a balanced portfolio of businesses across our Increasing customer decisions typically based on price, quality, markets provides some protection against competition in technology and service.
Contracts for major programmes individual markets or countries.
are subject to highly competitive bidding processes and Continual review of competition and market trends.
the strength of our competitors and general market Targeted investment in engineering, Lean manufacturing conditions continue to drive price pressure and more resources, quality and customer relationships.
Changes during 2014 In those countries where we have strong margins, these Strong competition and customer pricing pressures have margins may come under pressure as our competitors continued throughout 2014.
Pressure on margins is increasing in improve, particularly if the relevant markets slow.
An high growth markets such as China and competition is particularly inability or delay in developing or maintaining sufficient strong in areas of new and emerging technologies.
Despite these or appropriate engineering and manufacturing challenges, we continue to win new business and differentiate capabilities in high growth markets could further ourselves through our technology.
The strategic report on page 13 includes more information on the Customer vertical integration including OEMs taking trends in each of our markets.
production in-house, the entry of new competitors or consolidation of existing competitors also contribute to increased competition.
Potential impact Competition, if not mitigated, could result in reduced sales and profit margins and potentially lost growth opportunities in high growth markets.
An inability to secure new business awards on major programmes could significantly impact future growth, cash flow and profitability.
Leading in our chosen markets Supply chain Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation Our suppliers are key to our success.
It is essential that Contract terms and conditions that require our suppliers to Stable suppliers and subcontractors continue to meet our high meet specified performance standards.
standards of technical competence, innovation, product Ongoing assessment of supplier technology and dependency.
quality, reliability, delivery performance, cost, financial Monitoring of the financial and operational viability of key stability, safety, ethics and social responsibility.
Ongoing monitoring of inventory levels to ensure availability in Our supply chain network is exposed to potentially times of production volatility.
adverse events such as physical disruptions, Contingency plans designed to enable us to secure alternative environmental and industrial accidents, and scarcity of key material supplies at short notice, to transfer or share supply or bankruptcy of a key supplier which could production between manufacturing sites and to use substitute impact our ability to deliver orders to our customers.
Dual sourcing where appropriate to reduce dependence on The cost of our products can be significantly affected single suppliers.
by the cost of the underlying commodities and Supplier quality reviews and audits.
materials from which they are made.
Fluctuations in these costs cannot always be passed on to the Changes during 2014 customer through pricing.
We continue to carefully manage and monitor our supply chains and, where appropriate, build upon long term supplier Potential impact relationships.
In December we introduced a new Supplier Code of A sustained supply chain disruption, or the delivery Conduct aimed at making it easier and clearer for suppliers to of defective product to us, could impact our ability to understand what we expect of them see page 57 for more meet customer requirements, result in additional information.
contractual liabilities and have a consequential impact on financial performance.
44 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Leading in our chosen markets Customer concentration Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation Significant customer concentration exists in the Regular review of the Group's relations with and exposure to Stable automotive and aerospace industries so a large portion key customers.
of the Groups revenues comes from a relatively small Extensive and regular dialogue with key customers and strong number of customers.
Around 50% of the Groups commercial and engineering relationships.
revenue is derived from its top 10 customers.
We monitor and review quality, service and delivery performance based upon customer KPIs the Voice of the Potential impact Customer programme is described further on page 48 under The insolvency of, damage to relations with, or Product quality.
significant worsening of commercial terms with a major Credit exposure is actively reviewed and managed.
customer could seriously affect the Groups future results, and could result in loss of market share and Changes during 2014 future business opportunities, asset write-offs and There have been no significant changes in the OEM customer restructuring actions.
landscape with the proportion of business from the Groups top 10 customers remaining stable during 2014.
No individual customer accounts for more than 10% of Group revenue.
However, we have won significant new business with one of our automotive customers, have continued to diversify our aerospace customer base, and will continue to regularly review the degree of our customer concentration.
See page 12 of the strategic report for more information on key customer trends and page 143 note 19c on credit risk.
Leveraging a strong global presence Joint ventures Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation A sizeable portion of the Groups profits and cash flows The Group seeks to participate only in ventures in which its Increasing are generated by a small number of joint ventures.
In interests are complementary to those of its partners.
these circumstances, there is an inherent risk that the Thorough pre-transaction due diligence procedures on any objectives of the joint venture partners in regard to the potential joint venture partner.
Continual focus on sustaining strong relationships with joint venture partners.
Potential impact Such a misalignment of objectives may result in the Changes during 2014 Groups inability to pursue its desired strategy as a Revenues and profits generated by our joint venture partners have consequence of which the Groups business and future again increased this year.
Relationships remain strong, further results may be adversely affected.
enhanced by the expansion in November 2013 of GKN Drivelines long-standing joint venture in China to cover the complete range of GKN Driveline products.
On 31 July 2014, the Group sold its stake in the Emitec joint venture.
See page 138 note 13 for more information on the Groups joint ventures.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management Principal risks and uncertainties Leveraging a strong global presence Laws, regulations and corporate reputation Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group is subject to applicable laws and regulations A strong culture of 'doing the right thing' which is regularly Stable in the global jurisdictions and industries in which it emphasised by senior management.
This includes certain territories where strong Group-wide governance policies and procedures, ongoing ethical standards may not be well established or where compliance training and strong oversight.
parts of the markets in which we operate are highly Ongoing monitoring of regulatory developments in major regulated.
Regulations include those related to export jurisdictions.
controls, environmental and safety requirements, Ongoing monitoring of employee concerns through our product safety, tax laws, intellectual property rights, independent Employee Disclosure Hotline.
competition laws and ethical business practices.
Changes during 2014 Tax in particular is a complex area where laws and their There have been no significant new regulations impacting the interpretation are changing regularly, leading to Group during 2014, but our markets are subject to increased potential uncertainty in tax exposures.
enforcement activities in relation to existing regulations, particularly in relation to vehicle safety.
Potential impact In response, we have taken steps to reinforce our commitment Non-compliance could expose the Group to fines, across the Group to doing the right thing in all activities.
This penalties, damage to reputation, suspension or includes emphasising the importance of doing the right thing to debarment from government contracting or suspension all senior managers at the Groups International Leadership of export privileges.
Conference and re-launching the GKN Code to remind employees of the standard of behaviour we expect.
We continue to strengthen our risk management systems.
See pages 52 to 54 for more information on 'doing the right thing' and 68 to 69 for more information on governance policies and procedures.
Leveraging a strong global presence Operating in global markets Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation We operate globally and as such results could be The Group has a diversified portfolio of businesses across our Stable impacted by global or regional changes in the markets providing some protection against individual market macroeconomic or political environment, changing or country risks.
consumer demand and preferences, and supply Lead market indicators are regularly reviewed so that we can chain volatility.
respond quickly to changing trading conditions.
Our mitigation strategy also includes: Our businesses could be impacted by changing planning, budgeting and forecasting processes.
consumer preference and associated volatility in flexible management of variable and fixed cost base, automotive demand: challenging credit conditions investment spending and working capital.
resulting in lack of access to finance by customers and further diversification into other sectors which present new end consumers: delay or cancellation of orders for civil opportunities.
aircraft and changes in the amount or timing of US focused restructuring activities, where necessary, to military spending: volatility in agricultural, construction, respond to markets which have suppressed levels of mining and industrial markets: exchange rate economic activity.
fluctuations: and changing oil prices.
regular review of our financial risk management processes, including foreign currency hedging.
Potential impact Major or prolonged economic or financial market Changes during 2014 deterioration, including movements in exchange rates During the year we have aligned our debt to the principal of key currencies or political uncertainty in one of our currencies in which our revenues and cash flows are generated key markets, may significantly impact the Groups through cross currency swaps.
operational performance and financial condition.
We have further strengthened our presence in Asia and Mexico Sustained market weakness could lead to impairment and are working hard to continue to diversify our aerospace of assets or site closures.
It may also materially impact customer base.
our customers, suppliers and other parties with whom we do business.
Further commentary on the recent trends and outlook for each of our markets is set out in the Chief Executives review on pages 16 to 19 and the global markets section on pages 12 to 13.
For further details on the Groups financial risk management processes regarding foreign currency exposures see page 142 note 19.
46 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Differentiating ourselves through technology Technology and innovation Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation Developing innovative technologies for our customers Regular assessment of market and technology trends and Stable is critical to maintaining our differentiation and drivers.
GKN may lose customers Close relationships and technical partnerships with customers.
to competitors offering new technologies if we are Divisional technology plans aligned to emerging and future unable to adapt to or take advantage of market trends and business strategy.
developments such as changes in legislative, regulatory Regular review of current and future technology plans by the or industry requirements, competitive technologies or Group Technology Strategy Board.
Consideration of technology plans as part of the Boards annual strategy review.
Potential impact Focused investment in research and development.
The failure to launch new products, new product applications or derivatives of existing products to meet Changes during 2014 customer requirements could have a significant impact We have continued to invest in technology as we aim to meet on future profitable growth.
customers expectations for improving efficiency of aircraft, cars and other vehicles with solutions that are lighter and more fuel-efficient.
We have further strengthened our Engineering Fellowship who support the Board in developing the Groups technology plan and provide engineering leadership throughout the Group.
The Group continues to establish cross-divisional projects aimed at delivering innovative solutions to meet our customer needs across all our markets.
Further commentary on how the Group continues to differentiate itself through technology is included in the business review section on pages 22-37.
Driving operational excellence Contract risk Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation Across our businesses an increasing percentage of Robust bid and contract management processes including Increasing revenues are generated through contracts which are thorough reviews of contract terms and conditions, contractlong term in nature and subject to complex terms specific risk assessments and clear delegation of authority and conditions.
Contracts include commitments for approvals.
relating to pricing, quality and safety, and technical Continuous review of contract performance.
Changes during 2014 Specifically within the Aerospace business, the Group As the Group focuses on providing solutions to its customers, has risk and revenue sharing partnerships RRSP with often including a design element, the risks associated with key engine manufacturers.
These contain formalised complex contracts increases.
The Group regularly reviews ways to risk sharing arrangements relating to risks that are not further strengthen its contract management processes and this always within GKN management control.
will continue as an area of focus during 2015.
Both our aerospace and automotive businesses enter See pages 20 to 37 of the strategic report for more information.
into design and build contracts.
These are complex contracts that are often long term, so it is important that the contracted risk is carefully managed.
Potential impact A failure to fully understand contract risks or to anticipate technical challenges and estimate costs accurately at the outset of a contract can lead to unexpected liabilities, increased outturn costs and reduced profitability.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management Principal risks and uncertainties Driving operational excellence Programme management Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation Many of the programmes entered into by the Group are Embedded programme management, including investment Increasing complex and long term, and are subject to various phasing and product testing activities.
performance conditions which must be adhered to Periodic impairment reviews of capitalised development costs, throughout the programme.
The management of such including formal review at half year and year end.
programmes brings risks related to: Ongoing review and approval of key programmes by the delays in product development or launch schedules: Executive Committee and the Board.
failure to meet customer specifications or predict technical problems: Changes during 2014 inability to manufacture on time for the start of Programme management risk has continued to increase in line production or to required production volumes: with the move towards common global platforms in automotive dependence on key or customer nominated suppliers: and the launch of new aircraft in aerospace, together with the failure to manage effectively internal or customerapplication of new technologies.
In response, the Group has driven change: continued to strengthen its risk management systems in this area, inability to forecast accurately and to manage costs.
and this will continue as an area of focus during 2015.
Potential impact See pages 22 to 37 of the business review for more information on Ineffective programme management could result in major new programme wins.
damage to customer relationships or cancellation of a contract resulting in claims for loss and reputational damage.
Poor performance against a contract could also undermine the Groups ability to win future contracts and could result in cost overruns and significantly lower returns than expected.
Driving operational excellence Product quality Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The quality and safety of our products is essential.
High levels of quality assurance are embedded in robust Increasing We are exposed to warranty, product recall and manufacturing systems.
liability claims in the event that our products fail to Regular reporting and monitoring of quality performance based perform as expected.
Maintenance of critical parts lists.
In automotive, the industry in general has experienced External agency quality reviews.
higher levels of recalls in recent years and the OEMs Robust contract terms and conditions.
often seek contribution from throughout the supply chain.
This risk increases where: Changes during 2014 vehicle manufacturers offer longer warranty periods: Excellence in quality has continued to be a priority during the year more vehicles are being built on standard platforms, with continuous improvement programmes ongoing in each of our so a single quality issue can affect a large number businesses.
A central part of this years focus on quality has been of vehicles: our 'Voice of the Customer' initiative.
In addition to our internal regulators and our customers are taking a more quality KPIs we now view quality through the eyes of our stringent approach to recalling vehicles particularly if customers by collecting the quality reports issued by our there is a possible safety issue.
customers, analysing these and by working to continously improve quality and delivery as measured by our customers.
In aerospace customers and regulators impose very strict product safety and quality obligations on all See page 18 of the Chief Executives review and page 57 of the aircraft suppliers.
sustainability report for more information.
Potential impact A product failure could result in serious losses, damaging GKNs financial performance and potentially our reputation.
In particular, the costs associated with vehicle or aircraft recalls can be significantly higher than the cost of simply replacing defective products.
48 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Driving operational excellence People capability Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Groups ability to deliver its strategic objectives Competitive reward packages together with focused training Stable is dependent upon the recruitment and retention and development programmes.
of sufficiently qualified, experienced and A culture that motivates individuals to perform to the best of motivated people.
Strong succession and development programmes.
It is critical for the Group to secure and maintain the Local initiatives designed to engage young people, relevant capabilities in specific geographical regions promote science, technology, engineering and mathematics and disciplines in both existing markets and to support STEM subjects and encourage the next generation of growth markets.
Potential impact Changes during 2014 The failure to recruit or the loss of key personnel, and The recruitment and development of young engineering talent has the failure to plan adequately for succession or develop continued to be a priority during 2014 together with resources and the potential of employees may impact the Groups capabilities aligned to our growth markets.
ability to deliver its strategic and financial objectives.
More information is available in the sustainability report on pages 55 and 56.
Driving operational excellence Health and safety Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation Safety is our number one priority.
We manage safety Consistent Group-wide application of health and Stable carefully through extensive Group-wide processes, yet safety programmes.
we recognise we can never be complacent.
Therefore we Health and safety audits to ensure adherence to Group policies continue to include this as a principal risk and an area and procedures.
which will always be a priority for GKN.
A focus on process and behavioural safety through a number of Group-wide risk assessment and training programmes.
Potential impact Maintenance of insurance for costs associated with related A serious accident in the workplace could have a major actions or claims against the Group.
impact on employees as well as their families, colleagues and communities.
Such an incident could Changes during 2014 also result in legal claims, reputational damage and Against a target of zero preventable accidents, our accident financial loss.
frequency rate AFR continued to improve during 2014, whereas our accident severity rate ASR saw a minor increase.
and dont WALK BY programmes continued together with the introduction of thinkHEALTH!
occupational health awareness, all aimed at encouraging employees to identify and resolve safety concerns.
Focused hazard awareness and risk assessment programmes continued to be embedded throughout our manufacturing sites to support proactive risk identification and corrective actions.
See page 54 of the sustainability report for more information on the Groups health and safety performance.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management Principal risks and uncertainties Driving operational excellence Information system resilience Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group could be impacted negatively by Formal risk-based governance framework including dedicated Stable information technology security threats including IT security policies and related compliance processes, ongoing unauthorised access to intellectual property or other risk reviews, IT security awareness training and robust systems controlled information.
Interruptions to the Groups and processes to manage access, information assets, threats information systems could also adversely affect its and vulnerabilities.
External support and benchmarking of best practice information systems security and resilience.
The inherent security threat is considered highest in GKN Ongoing development of appropriate incident detection and Aerospace where data is held in relation to civil response plans and capabilities.
aerospace technology and controlled military contracts.
Disaster recovery contingency plans which are regularly tested including data centres where the risk is deemed to be Potential impact the greatest.
A major disruption to information systems could have a Executive Committee oversight of IT security and significant adverse impact on the Groups operations or assurance matters.
The loss of confidential information, intellectual property or controlled data could result in Changes during 2014 fines, damage to the Groups reputation, and could The Group has continued to strengthen its mitigating processes adversely affect its ability to win future contracts.
and controls in this area and to monitor the nature and volume of information security threats impacting both our business and our industries more generally.
See page 69 of the corporate governance report for more information on the Groups IT governance.
Other risks Business continuity Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation A major disruption to internal facilities or the external Ongoing maintenance and replacement programmes for key Stable supply chain could be caused by natural disaster or assets and facilities.
damage, or destruction of a key facility or asset.
Flexible sourcing arrangements for key supplies.
Effective supply chain management to ensure appropriate The Group has a small number of facilities and assets inventory levels are maintained.
which are key to maintaining production levels for major Targeted incident response and business continuity plans.
customers and internal service levels.
Changes during 2014 In addition, certain of the Groups businesses There has been no significant change in the inherent risk profile are exposed to a higher inherent risk of natural disasters during 2014.
All divisions continue to focus on risk mitigation, because of their geographical locations.
including the production, refinement and testing of business continuity and disaster recovery plans, and ongoing reviews of Potential impact critical assets and prioritisation of capital investment.
A sustained disruption to internal facilities or production could result in major operational disruption, a significant adverse impact on our ability to meet customer requirements, additional contractual liabilities and have a consequential impact on financial performance.
50 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Other risks Pension funding Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension Close co-operation with scheme fiduciaries regarding Stable post-retirement medical plans with aggregate net management of pension scheme assets and liabilities, liabilities of 1,711 million at 31 December 2014.
These including asset selection and hedging actions.
plans are exposed to the risk of changes in asset values, Alternative funding and risk mitigation actions are discount rates, inflation and mortality assumptions.
Potential impact Changes during 2014 Increases to the pension deficit could lead to a During the year, against an economic backdrop which has seen requirement for additional cash contributions to these pension liabilities remain at a high level versus historical norms, plans, thereby reducing the amount of cash available to driven by the exceptionally low yields on long term bonds, we have meet the Groups other operating, investment and continued to undertake pension risk reduction initiatives, financing requirements.
including a partial buy-in transaction in the UK and an increase in hedging ratios.
In addition, in the UK we commenced a pension increase exchange exercise to further mitigate inflation risk, which will conclude in early 2015, and undertook a 'voluntary lump sums programme' in the US, whereby deferred members of the US pension plan were offered a cash lump sum in lieu of future pension rights.
The Group continues to have a reasonable degree of visibility over the range of short to medium term funding cash flows.
See pages 40 to 41 and 150 to 155 for more information on the Groups pension arrangements.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51
