Managing risk Our focus on effective risk management cascades all the way through the organisation.
Adrian Ewer, Chairman of the audit committee Ultimate accountability for risk management lies with the Board, supported Dear Shareholder by the work of the audit committee, to which the Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management Risk is always high on the Boards agenda and this and internal control systems.
With clear leadership from the Board and audit focus on effective risk management cascades all committee, the executive directors play an integral role in helping the the way through the organisation.
Go-Ahead takes operating companies identify, assess and monitor their respective risks and controls.
Through monthly meetings with the senior management of each a conservative view of risk and attempts to limit operating company, the executive directors encourage open bottom-up its exposure to undue risk.
This is reflected in the communication on risk matters within a clearly defined framework and Groups strategy.
The culture of the organisation reporting process.
Ownership of risk identification and mitigation lies with senior management in the operating companies, where it is an integral part ensures that all activities, from day-to-day operations of day-to-day local company operations.
to high level strategic decisions, are performed in line with this approach.
What are our risks During the year, the Board improved the top-down process for risk assessment How we manage risk to concentrate on a smaller number of key risks to allow more in-depth Through our robust risk management and internal control systems, we are consideration.
Whilst all risks are closely managed, this report only includes risks able to identify, assess and prioritise risks to our business and seek to minimise, considered to be financially or reputationally material and relevant to the year monitor and control their probability and impact whilst maximising the under review.
The tables on pages 36 to 37 summarise our assessment of the opportunities they present.
Risks are monitored on an ongoing basis through key risks that could have a material impact on the Groups performance or our risk management processes and are mitigated through the internal control business model.
Residual risks are assessed and it is determined whether they will be accepted as an integral part of the business, or deemed unacceptable and Where to find out more therefore either reduced, transferred to third parties or avoided by no longer The corporate governance report on pages 52 to 67 provides more detail of pursuing the relevant activities.
We are always looking at ways to develop and Go-Aheads risk management and internal control framework.
Our corporate improve our risk management processes.
In addition to reports from the website expands on the information provided within this report.
Groups internal auditors and health and safety consultants, external auditors reports and updates from the executive directors were regularly reviewed by the audit committee during the year.
Who is involved in risk management Adrian Ewer, All of our employees are required to manage risks of varying levels in Chairman of the audit committee their roles.
We empower our people to take responsibility for risks facing 3 September 2014 themselves or their colleagues, our passengers, the general public and the success of the Group.
The diagram on page 35 illustrates the key roles and responsibilities of each of the respective functions within our formalised risk management framework.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 34 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Risk management framework Board of directors Top-down Leadership of risk management Sets strategic objectives and risk appetite Monitors performance Accountable for the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management processes Audit committee Delegated responsibility from the Board to oversee risk management and internal controls Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management processes Monitors the role and effectiveness of the internal auditors and the independence and expertise of the external auditors Executive directors Internal audit Communicate and disseminate risk policies Independently review the effectiveness of Support and help operating companies to assess risk the Groups risk management and internal Encourage open communication on risk matters control processes Oversee risk management Monitor and validate action taken Monitor performance by management Assess materiality of risks in the context Provide assurance of the whole Group Report monthly to the executive directors Monitor mitigation and controls Report quarterly to the audit committee Facilitate sharing of risk management information and best practice across the Group Operating company board Define risk management roles at operational and project level Use approach to risk as an explicit part of decision-making and management of external relationships Bottom-up Continuous identification of risk, assurance and self-assessment Website resilience Our approach to website resilience and business continuity is an Light sites example of how we mitigate the risk of information technology Our IT team worked with web design agencies creating light sites failure or interruption.
that can be switched-on in times of travel disruption.
These sites strip Operating Company Board out any extraneous information and load information critical pages Always available online Define risk management roles at operational and project level within a fraction of a second.
We extensively analyse the pages that our With a billion passenger journeys made every year on Go-Ahead Use risk as an explicit part of decision-making and management of external relationships customers use most frequently and make sure they are easy to access.
services, customers accessing real-time travel information is a vital part Continuous identification of risk, assurance and self-assessment of the service we provide.
At times when public transport is disrupted, Load bearing hosts Bottom-up our operating companies websites can have tens of thousands of people For business continuity our sites are now hosted on load bearing servers looking for information at the same time.
Our reputation is based on that can cope with spontaneous large spikes in demand, up to several being able to provide this information about our bus and rail services millions hits per second.
We use external companies to conduct site in real time.
confidence testing every year, to assess whether our systems are able to cope if there is an unprecedented increase in users needing access.
With more and more people accessing the information on the move, Working together with our suppliers and across our operating companies, it is critical that our operating company sites are resilient and can we monitor and respond to incidents quickly, minimising the risk of withstand large surges of people accessing them at any one time.
In the past we have learnt our websites and servers can be particularly We also need to continually stay abreast of how use of technology vulnerable when external forces beyond our control, such as the weather, is changing so we can continue to provide our customers with the cause major disruption.
In 2010, heavy snowfall stopping rail services in information they need at a time, and in a way that suits them.
the south east of the UK resulted in an unprecedented number of people accessing our rail websites causing servers to crash and resulting in Read more about our approach to information technology risk information being unavailable.
Since then, we have focused our efforts on on pages 36 and 37 mitigating the risk of this happening again and now believe we are leading the industry in our approach to website resilience and business continuity.
com 35 Managing risk continued Potential impact Mitigating action Potential opportunities Change in risk in the year Negative impact on the Groups businesses, Continue to focus our operations in more resilient geographical areas A more challenging economic environment encourages modal shift, The economic risk reduced in the year as economic growth rates External Local management constantly assesses the needs of local markets as motorists seek value for money alternatives to the private car for the quarter ended June 2014 improved to 3.2% for the UK.
largely through a reduction in demand for Economic and tailors services and products accordingly Some geographical areas are recovering at a slower rate.
In rail, franchise bids make economic environment Improvements in the economic environment can lead to increased Focus on driving volumes through innovative and targeted marketing unemployment in north east England was around 10% compared to assumptions years into the future.
A weaker employment and discretionary spending in shops and leisure facilities 1 Generate customer loyalty through initiatives such as smart-ticketing close to 7% in the rest of the UK economy can lead to under performance which can result in more journeys being taken on public transport Proactive cost control against bid targets.
Political and Changes in Government or to laws, regulations, Limited exposure to local authority funding.
Our operations are largely commercial Changes in law, regulation or funding could positively impact the With the next general election less than a year away, we are mindful Actively participate in key industry, trade and Government steering groups Group, potentially leading to increased funding or more flexibility for of the major political parties policies.
Our engagement with these parties regulatory policies e. g. concessionary travel, local authority Maintain close relationships with key industry partners and stakeholders operators.
For example, the potential introduction of local authority enables us to influence policies impacting on the industry and Go-Ahead framework attitudes towards public transport and Use internal initiatives across the business to offset the impact of external issues contract schemes outside London may increase our ability to bid for reductions in the availability of Government The Tyne and Wear Integrated Transport Authority began a third contracts in new areas financial support could adversely impact the consultation period regarding the possible introduction of a contracts The political and regulatory framework provides us with the Groups operations and financial position.
scheme in the north east opportunity to influence decisions through close dialogue with Read more in the Chief Executives Q&A on page 8 the Government, local authorities and other key parties The sustainability of rail profits is dependent on Flexible and experienced management team which responds quickly and expertly Following significant delays, the DfTs rail franchise competition The Groups future in the UK rail industry has been secured to at least Strategic to changing circumstances timetable picked up pace during the year with two DfT contracts 2021 through our successful bid for the Thameslink, Southern and Great a number of factors.
The nature of the current Sustainability Shared risk through Govia, which is 65% owned by Go-Ahead and 35% by Keolis being let since May 2014.
Nine rail franchises are due to be awarded Northern TSGN franchise which we will operate as GTR under a rail franchising model leads to high volatility of of rail profits Element of protection through revenue support arrangements in the next three years presenting growth opportunities for the Group management contract.
Mobilisation of this franchise is almost complete earnings: failure to retain, win or successfully Significant resource and financial investment in bidding for new franchises mobilise new franchises could impact on the See page 16 for details of upcoming franchise competitions Read more about GTR on page 43 Regular Board review of rail performance, and Board approval of overall rail overall profitability of the Group: failure to bidding strategy For contracts where we take revenue risk, there may be the We hope to agree contract terms with the DfT shortly for the extension comply with conditions of rail franchise Compliance with franchise conditions closely monitored opportunity for increased earnings if the economic climate of the Southeastern franchise to June 2018 agreements could lead to financial penalties Clear mobilisation plans and experienced management is stronger than assumed in a franchise bid or even the termination of a rail franchise.
Discussions continue with the DfT regarding the proposed extension of the London Midland franchise to June 2017 Comprehensive strategic discussions with main Board and advisors Continual focus on and review of strategy ensures the Board is well Good strategic progress made during the year.
On course to achieve Inappropriate Inappropriate strategic or investment decisions Extensive valuation and due diligence, supported by external expertise placed to access value adding opportunities as they arise Target 100 in bus.
Future of rail secured to 2021 through winning the strategy or could adversely impact on the Groups Maintain strong financial discipline when assessing viability of opportunities TSGN franchise investment economic and shareholder value.
Minimum return on capital requirements of all investment opportunities Go-Ahead has a clear strategy, communicated to all levels of the Cautious approach to investment opportunities overseas and outside organisation our core operating areas Read more about our strategy on page 17 Work hard to maintain our good reputation with our customers Strategic partnerships, such as our joint-operator scheme with We do not believe that the potential of a state owned entity cooperative Competition Loss of business to existing competitors or new Foster close relationships with stakeholders to ensure we are meeting Stagecoach and the local authority in Oxford, may provide into rail franchising would significantly increase competition risk, assuming entrants to the markets in which we operate requirements including service quality and price opportunities and aim to improve the passenger experience the process would ensure equality for all bidders could have a significant impact on our business.
Work in partnership with local authorities and other operators and perception of public transport as a whole London Midland is experiencing increased competition on the West Coast Promote multi-modal travel, improving the overall door-to-door experience mainline.
This is an inherent part of operating in a competitive market for passengers which we seek to mitigate An incident, such as a major accident, an act Rigorous, high profile health and safety programme throughout the Group The threat of such an event requires our staff to be well trained We have maintained high levels of safety performance, demonstrating Operational of terrorism, a force majeure, a pandemic or and prepared at all times.
Continuous review of processes and our continuing efforts to minimise this risk Catastrophic Appropriate and regularly reviewed and tested contingency and disaster procedures can identify areas for operational improvement severe failure of rail infrastructure, could result recovery plans incident or severe See how we are performing against our KPIs on pages 18 to 33 in serious injury, disruption to service and loss Thorough and regular staff training infrastructure Close relationship and proactive alliancing with Network Rail, which maintains of earnings.
failure the rail infrastructure Ensuring Go-Ahead is viewed as an employer of choice Through fostering positive employee relations and offering good We have developed our people plans during the year, with particular Labour costs, Poor employee relations or reduced availability employment packages we have a motivated and committed Robust and regularly reviewed recruitment and retention policies, training focus on leadership development, performance management and employee relations of staff could impact on reputation, revenue, workforce, with low staff turnover and absenteeism rates across schemes, resource planning and working practices succession planning and resource staff morale and our ability to fulfil contract all businesses Experienced approach to wage negotiations and fostering good relationships planning obligations.
Labour costs are a high proportion Read about our people plans and performance against with employees and trade unions of our cost base.
Even relatively small percentage our strategic priority Our people on pages 26 to 29 Employee engagement surveys across all businesses to identify issues increases in wages could have a material impact on profits.
For example, an increase of 1% in staff costs would increase costs by 9.3m.
Information Prolonged or major failure of the Groups IT Process standardisation and continued investment in best practice systems, Ensuring our systems are efficient and reliable strengthens day-to-day Continued investment in and maintenance of IT systems across the Group including light sites and load bearing servers operations across the Group technology IT systems could pose significant risk to the ability Read about our approach to mitigating elements of this risk Clear and tested business continuity plans failure or interruption to operate and trade.
on page 35 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 36 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Potential impact Mitigating action Potential opportunities Change in risk in the year Negative impact on the Groups businesses, Continue to focus our operations in more resilient geographical areas A more challenging economic environment encourages modal shift, The economic risk reduced in the year as economic growth rates External Local management constantly assesses the needs of local markets as motorists seek value for money alternatives to the private car for the quarter ended June 2014 improved to 3.2% for the UK.
on page 35 1 Office for National Statistics, May 2014. www.
