Strategic report RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES We have a formal risk management process which is designed to identify, assess and prioritise risks within the business, so that their impact on sustainable profitability is minimised and the group is able to deliver our business plans and strategic objectives, as well astomaximise shareholder returns.
The board retains ultimate responsibility for Each division and functional area is tasked monitors the risk mitigation plans and assists the companys risk management framework with maintaining, reviewing and regularly in the production of the group risk register.
and reviews the groups principal risks on updating a risk register.
The board has delegated risks takes into account the likelihood of Given that some risks are external and not responsibility for assurance for the risk their occurrence and the scale of potential fully within our control, the risk management management process to the audit committee, impact both financial and reputational on processes are designed to manage risks which which regularly reviews the risk management the business.
Each division and functional may have a material impact on our business, processes for each division and functional area is then responsible for evaluating current rather than to fully mitigate all risks.
The implementation of risk management controls and drawing up plans to improve and internal control systems is the responsibility controls and manage new risks.
Progress of This section highlights some of the key risks of the executive directors and other these risk implementation plans is monitored and uncertainties which affect Greene King, seniormanagement.
by senior management on a regular basis.
but it is not intended to be an exhaustive Inaddition, a company-wide risk committee analysis of all risks facing the business.
reviews the individual risk registers in detail, STRATEGIC RISKS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION MONITORING ASSURANCE A failure to find and secure the acquisition We maintain a pipeline of sites Regular updates are provided to To achieve our Retail expansion and development where appropriate of currently 100 available for purchase management as to the status of potential plans we need to be able to top quality sites could reduce our rate of and have expanded our team of acquisition acquisitions and of development progress acquire existing pubs, smaller growth in the future.
We risk costs creep managers responsible for securing new for new-build sites or major conversions pub businesses and brown or due to the supply and demand on land, sites.
We have also moved into new areas of acquired pubs.
Monthly estate plan greenfield sites on which to materials and labour.
Our in-house meetings are held to discuss progress.
The upturn property development team is employed to help deliver new-build projects on intheeconomy has resulted in time and onbudget.
increased activity meaning more businesses competing for the same sites.
ECONOMIC AND MARKET RISKS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION MONITORING ASSURANCE Consumers spending less in our pubs By focusing on value, service and quality The executive teams and the board The wider economic situation whether due to concerns over interest we aim to continue to appeal to a broad receiveregular updates on performance.
within the UK continues to affect rates, spending on large ticket items range of consumers.
We have a wide Competitor activity is monitored at both a consumer confidence, with a elsewhere, or significant competitor geographic spread of pubs including strategic and tactical level to enable suitable consequential impact on levels of activity, could reduce our revenue and themore affluent areas of London and actions to be developed in response.
All consumer spending in our pubs lead to lower growth rates.
the south-east, and a good range of business units keep and update profit and those of our tenants and customer offers.
We provide ongoing protection plans.
Our Pub Partners division training, operational and financial constantly monitors the vital signs of our lessees.
We also face increasing support for our tenants alongside licensee health, including debt levels and competitor activity.
continued agreement innovation to the numbers of tenancies atwill.
ensure that more of our tenants are ableto run profitable businesses.
30 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2014 www.
co. uk Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements ECONOMIC AND MARKET RISKS CONTINUED SPECIFIC RISK AREAS POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION MONITORING ASSURANCE Higher costs could impact margins We have contracts in place with All costs, including labour, are Inflationary trends increase andlead to reduced profitability.
majorsuppliers designed to protect us closelymonitored by the executive thecosts of our key products, against significant increases in major teams to ensure that they remain including food, drink and site cost items and against price volatility.
We continually evolve the composition of menus and retail prices to optimise value to the customer and profits for the company.
OPERATIONAL AND PEOPLE RISKS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION MONITORING ASSURANCE Customers may stop visiting our sites or We maintain tight controls to protect We have introduced a new supplier An event or series of events visit less frequently, leading to a loss of andenhance our reputation and brand assurance programme to enable us including poor service standards revenue and reputational damage.
values, alongside staff training, targeted togive appropriate assurances to our and food provenance issues may investment programmes and mystery customers as to the provenance of the occur which damages our brand guest visits.
Incident escalation and food in our pubs.
Our new e-commerce inthe eyes of our customers, management systems are also in place.
team monitors social media comments Wehave upweighted technical support about us.
Third party audits on food particularly in the age of increasing inkey areas including product take place regularly to ensure standards use of social media.
An inability to quickly recover key Our networks are protected by firewalls The IT department constantly monitor We are reliant on information operating systems could impact our and anti-virus protection systems and threats to data protection by viruses, systems and technology for many ability to do business and cause back-up procedures are also in place.
hacking and breach of access controls.
Loss or theft Abusiness continuity plan is in place The business continuity plan is also ofpersonal data belonging to our for critical business processes.
We have regularly reviewed and tested.
customers or employees including access to an off-site disaster recovery bycyber attack could also cause facility in the event of a major issue reputational and financial damage.
with our head office or our systems.
Aworking party has been established toreview data security and drive improved behaviours and response management.
A data security manager has been recruited.
Supply disruption whether of our own Detailed risk management and mitigation Risk mitigation and product recall plans We are reliant on a number beers or any third party products could plans exist in our internal production and are reviewed and tested regularly across ofkeysuppliers and third party impact customer satisfaction.
Our key suppliers the business and disaster recovery plans distributors to supply our pubs a key supplier or distributor failure are expected to maintain disaster recovery of suppliers are reviewed regularly.
and restaurants and are also at could over the longer term reduce our plans.
We also maintain back-up plans risk of an event occurring which revenue or lead to increased costs if inthe event of the failure by or loss may prevent us from producing, alternative arrangements are required.
packaging and distributing our own beers.
A failure to attract, develop, retain, A branded recruitment plan is in place with Our annual employee engagement We are reliant on the quality of motivate and in the case of senior a strong pipeline of suitable candidates.
survey is used to obtain direct feedback our employees and our licensees.
employees plan for the succession of Remuneration packages are benchmarked from employees on a range of issues.
the best employees across our expanding to ensure that they remain competitive.
Both staff and licensee turnover is Retail business may mean that we are Career development programmes are measured and reviewed by relevant not able to execute our business plans inplace to retain key employees and management teams.
A failure to attract and leadership training has been introduced retain good quality licensees will for all levels of management.
Exit impact our Pub Partners business.
interviews are conducted with all retail managers to enable action plans to be developed to deal with key leaver reasons.
Upgraded apprenticeship schemes are provided through a new supplier.
The range of tenancy agreements, training programmes and support available is designed to attract and retain the best quality licensees.
co. uk Annual report 2014 GREENE KING PLC 31 Strategic report RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED REGULATORY RISKS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION MONITORING ASSURANCE A mandatory statutory code, particularly We will continue to engage actively with The regulatory landscape is monitored The government has confirmed if it introduced greater controls on how government in relation to its proposed on an ongoing basis by our public affairs that it proposes to introduce pub companies can deal with their plans.
We have increased resources within team, so we remain aware of any potential astatutory code to manage tenants, could increase costs for Pub Pub Partners compliance team toensure changes which may adversely impact therelationship between pub Partners and reduce revenue.
the voluntary code is complied with and our business.
Arrangements to monitor companies and their tenants will review resources again ifastatutory compliance with any new statutory code code is introduced.
will be reviewed once details are confirmed.
which could have significant implications for our Pub Partnersdivision.
A major food safety or health and safety We have a comprehensive range of We have a centrally managed system We are required to comply with incident which causes serious illness, formally documented policies and ofcompliance tracking KPIs, which awide range of health and safety injury or even loss of life to one of our procedures in place to ensure compliance isvalidated by both internal and legislation, including in the areas customers, employees or tenants could with current legislation and approved independent external audits carried of food safety and fire safety, have a significant impact on our reputation.
guidance in this area, as well as our own outat all Retail sites to measure across all parts of our business.
Our health and safety performance against certain strict policies are continually reviewed by health and safety standards including ourprimary authority partner, Reading food safety and fire safety.
Operational Borough Council, which has rated our managers are regularly briefed on safety management systems as very performance and remedial actions good.
Safety levels for new tenants have aretracked from the centre.
We also been improved, and safety measures are make use of external benchmarking.
in place to ensure that product integrity is maintained and that all food and drink products are fully traceable.
FINANCIAL RISKS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION MONITORING ASSURANCE Breaching our financial covenants would Our long-term strategy and yearly We regularly monitor our performance Our financing structure requires have a significant impact on our ability business plans are formulated to ensure against our financial covenants, including us to be able to repay capital to pay dividends or reinvest cash back that financial covenants can be met.
Working capital is carefully borrowed and interest on time into the business.
It could also impact securitised vehicle had a free cash flow forecast, regularly reviewed by the and to ensure that we operate our reputation and ongoing debt service cover ratio at the year end finance teams and closely managed.
Under ourbank facility we had 75% headroom on the key net debt EBITDA covenant.
Inadequate internal control systems Our systems of internal control, more Regular management accounts are We are reliant on maintaining increase the risk of fraud being perpetrated details of which appear on page 48, produced for each area and reviewed robust systems of internal against us.
Non-compliance with statutory include robust controls, appropriately indetail, to enable irregularities to be controlto deal accurately with obligations or a material misstatement qualified staff, segregation of duties and exposed.
There is a detailed external thelarge numbers of transactions inthe reported results of the company authority levels for expenditure and audit of our statutory accounts.
undertaken by the business and to could damage our reputation.
Appropriate advice is taken ensure compliance with statutory toensure relevant statutory compliance and there is regular board oversight obligations particularly with ofopen tax positions and the groups regard to taxation.
The difference in value between the All the schemes are now closed to future There is regular monitoring of the We maintain two defined benefit schemes assets and liabilities may vary, accrual to reduce volatility.
schemes investments and dialogue pension schemes which must be resulting in an increased deficit being with the trustees on an ongoing basis funded to meet the required benefit recognised on our balance sheet.
The value and funding volatility of this deficit makes longer-term of the schemes are subject to the planning more difficult.
risk of changes in life expectancy, actual and expected price inflation and changes ininvestment yields.
32 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2014 www.
