24 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties Corporate governance guidance requires the disclosure of principal risks and uncertainties.
A principal risk is defined as a risk or combination of risks which can seriously affect the performance, future prospects or reputation of the entity.
This would include risks which would threaten the business viability.
Greggs is exposed to a wider range of risks than those listed here.
However, these are considered to be the most important to the future development, performance or position of the business.
The risks listed are not set out in any particular order, although they are grouped into five themes.
Business strategy & change Area of principal risk or uncertainty Mitigating actions and controls Risk rating Change programme The project delivery is overseen by the Operating No change The business has embarked on a long-term project to Board, under the guidance of a project sponsor, improve operational efficiency, requiring significant capital providing robust governance.
provided to the Board, to monitor progress against clearly defined timelines and financial forecasts.
Progress may not be in line with expectations, or budgets may not be met.
Information security A cross-functional working group determines priorities No change for improving the business approach to information Greggs obtains significant quantities of customer data through security.
Where appropriate, the Company is investing its loyalty scheme, which needs to be handled in a secure in training and technology to strengthen controls.
More general cyber issues are also an area of risk.
Brand & reputation Area of principal risk or uncertainty Mitigating actions and controls Risk rating Product quality and safety Procedures are in place in our bakeries, logistics No change operations and shops to ensure that food safety As a food-on-the-go retailer and manufacturer, good food is maintained.
These procedures are supported safety is clearly imperative to maintain consumer confidence by robust audit processes, both internally and in our products.
We need to ensure that our ingredients are by regulatory bodies.
in line with specification, and are used correctly.
Food scare The majority of products for sale in our shops have No change been manufactured by our staff in our bakeries.
Greggs may suffer from a loss of customer confidence due Checks are carried out to confirm the integrity to a major food scare beyond its control.
of our ingredients as part of routine processes.
Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 Supply chain Area of principal risk or uncertainty Mitigating actions and controls Risk rating Loss of production Contingency plans are in place for our supply sites, No change and these are regularly tested.
Annual site inspections Some of our products are produced in one location and by our property insurers help us to ensure that our distributed nationwide.
Any disruption to supply would have facilities are protected against loss.
Alternative sources a significant impact on our customers.
of supply have been identified for key products, and regular testing ensures an ability to provide product to a suitable quality within the required timeframe.
External pressures Area of principal risk or uncertainty Mitigating actions and controls Risk rating Economic outlook market pressures Our products are competitively priced, to offer the Improving consumer value for money.
We continue to focus on Continued economic uncertainty, combined with a decline in refitting existing stores, rather than opening new ones.
high street footfall, result in a challenging trading environment New store locations are generally away from high for the business in the short term.
streets, to reflect the changes in shopping habits.
Market saturation Our value proposition combined with our quality New products puts us in a strong position in the market In the longer term, the food-on-the-go market may become place.
Monitoring of marketing data and segmental saturated due to the entry of new players and the expansion analysis allows us to target our activity.
Healthy eating Area of principal risk or uncertainty Mitigating actions and controls Risk rating Consumer trends We have introduced a Balanced Choice range within Improving our sandwiches to provide our customers with Greggs may lose customer share due to changing customer increased choice.
Lines such as our soup, porridge trends and health concerns reducing the popularity of some and salads provide other alternatives.
Sales of products of our products.
within this range have been growing well.
Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to management, or deemed to be less material currently, may also have an adverse effect on the business.
Greggs exposure to risks evolves as we take mitigating actions, or as new risks emerge.
The following risks have been removed from our list this year: Structural changes: these have now been completed: Labelling regulations: focused activity has ensured our readiness for the new requirements.
Single source suppliers: risk mitigated other than limited exposure on non-key ingredients.
Commodity prices: activities in place to mitigate the risk to a reasonable level.
26 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Our risk management approach Whistle-blowing Greggs approach to risk management has a number of All staff have an opportunity to raise matters of concern with components, which combine to ensure that significant risks senior management through our whistle-blowing policy, which are identified, evaluated, recorded and managed.
is advertised across the business.
Any matters raised are treated in confidence, and an independent review will be undertaken Board of Directors where this is appropriate.
The Chair of the Audit Committee is The Board has ultimate accountability for ensuring that risks the designated first point of contact for any concerns which are managed appropriately, although it delegates the detailed cannot be addressed through normal management processes.
implementation of risk processes and mitigating actions to management.
Significant risks i. e. those which could prevent Business Assurance the business from achieving its objectives were they to occur are The Business Assurance function provides independent internal considered at each meeting, with the associated controls being audit coverage for the entire business operation and also supports monitored and reviewed.
The Board also debates whether any risk management activity across the organisation.
Audit findings new or emerging risks require assessment by management.
are reported to management, and to the Audit Committee, whose quarterly meetings are all attended by the Head of Business Insurance cover provides a means of mitigation for a number of Assurance.
The Business Assurance team has authority to access risks facing the business.
On an annual basis, the Board reviews all areas of the business, all senior managers, and the Chair of the the cover in place and determines whether or not it considers Audit Committee as required.
Having changed insurance broker during the year, we have undertaken a robust review of our insurances, which has provided additional assurance that our cover is fit for purpose.
Through regular reporting, the Board is kept apprised of any issues or business changes which may impact on the Companys risk profile.
The Audit Committee reviews risk management procedures at least annually, and reports its findings through to the Board.
Operating Board The Operating Board supports the Chief Executive in implementing the Boards decisions, and comprises directors representing each of the organisations main functions: Finance, Business Development & Property, Retail, Trading, Supply Chain, People, Corporate Affairs and Business Planning & Change.
Responsibility for the day-to-day management of risks sits with this group.
All key strategic risks identified by the business are owned by an Operating Board member.
Risk Committee The Risk Committee is a management committee which has met three times this year to discuss risks in greater detail than can be done during Operating Board meetings.
It comprises the Chief Executive, the Operating Board and a number of functional heads.
Its responsibilities include analysing, assessing, measuring and understanding the Companys risk exposure, as well as developing an appropriate risk management strategy for the business.
Significant areas of concern identified by this body will be reported through to the Board, generally via the Audit Committee.
Although the Groups remit extends to all risks faced by the Company, it will focus on key strategic risks and their associated controls.
The Risk Committee also considers new and emerging risks as a standing agenda item, including those identified by the Board of Directors.
The Committee has also reviewed the ranking of the business key strategic risks during the year, to ensure that this remains an appropriate reflection of their relative standing.
