GettinG into Gear inteGrated annual report for the Year ended 28 March 2014 strategic rePort risk risks and uncertainties Like all businesses, our Group faces risks and Mindful of corporate strategy, executive management uncertainties that could impact the achievement of and the Board consider the risks reported within the the Groups strategy.
risk register and review and monitor new risks and all mitigating actions to ensure that the Groups appetite These risks are accepted as being a part of doing for risk is not exceeded.
The Board recognises that business.
The Board recognises that the nature and each of its strategic pillars i. e. Supporting Drivers scope of these risks can change and so regularly of Every Car, Inspiring Cyclists of Every Age, and reviews them as well as the systems and processes Equipping Families for their Leisure Time could be to mitigate them.
compromised by any of the risks set out below.
Individual Getting into Gear initiatives are reliant The Corporate Governance report on pages 76 to 89 on some of the mitigations identified.
For example describes the systems and internal control processes Service Revolution delivery is reliant on full utilisation through which the directors identify, assess, manage of our 3-Gears online training system and on our and mitigate risks.
ability to attract and retain good colleagues.
Stores Senior Management colleagues assess risks on a Fit to Shop is reliant on our continuing investment in  basis using a variety of modernisation of our stores.
The likelihood and impact Specific financial risks are detailed in note 19 to the of these risks are considered and scored against a Annual Report and Accounts on pages 141 to 144. recognised framework dependent upon their effect on the achievement of our corporate strategies.
Responsibility for taking the necessary actions to manage risk is delegated to appropriate colleagues in the business, with executive manager sponsor involvement.
The risk register is monitored and updated with current and ongoing mitigation on a regular basis.
Identify Evaluate our risk management process Mitigate Analyse 64 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 Halfords AR2014-Performance.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 Key Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Economic, Environmental and Political The economy is a major influence on consumer spending.
Trends in employment, The Group mitigates these risks by maintaining a focus on the defensive inflation, taxation, consumer debt levels, weather and interest rates impact characteristics of its needs driven product groups.
A firm focus is maintained consumer expenditure in discretionary areas.
Changes in Government policies on cost control.
Targeted promotions and excellent service are designed to e. g. Cycle to Work, DAB switchover may also affect our consumers ability to attract and retain customers.
It ensures that marketing and merchandising can benefit from our products and services.
be revised quickly to react to weather conditions.
We also ensure that we have representation with Governmental decision-makers in the areas supporting our core categories.
Business Strategy The aim of the Groups business strategy is to deliver long-term value to The Group has its established three pillars strategy.
The Board understands that if the strategy and vision are review, a retail three-year plan Getting into Gear was announced during the inappropriately formulated, communicated, or executed then the business will year.
Strategic issues, including the three-year plan, are regularly reviewed at suffer.
Regular assessment is made to ensure that strategy remains appropriate, and that the business is making progress in meeting its strategic objectives.
KPIs relating to strategy have been communicated clearly both within the business and to the market.
These KPIs are regularly discussed by the Board.
Our budget process recognises the importance of strategic initiatives.
Competition The retail industry is highly competitive and dynamic.
The Group competes with a The Board is aware of the risks faced from UK retailers, both in-store and online, wide variety of retailers of varying sizes and faces competition from UK retailers, and from the national car-servicing networks and smaller independents.
in both stores and online, as well as international operators.
The car servicing We announced a significant investment programme at the start of the year to servicing market is a service-based market with a number of different-sized support Getting into Gear.
The investment programme is allowing us to improve providers where trust is extremely important to customers.
Failure to compete the service we provide to customers by improving the quality of our stores, IT with competitors on areas including price, product range, quality, service and infrastructure, training and website including optimisation for mobile and tablet trustworthiness could have an adverse effect on the Groups financial results.
Excellent service is fundamental to differentiating ourselves from our competitors.
The national geographical coverage of our stores underpins our Click & Collect offering.
Our wefit service is a key differentiator.
Our cycle repair and extended parts, accessories and clothing range offer confirm our credibility within the cycling market.
The Group seeks to continually strengthen its own-brand and sub-brand retail offer and develop opportunities to differentiate the Halfords brand including TV, radio, press and social media advertising.
indd 65 12 06 2014 14:22:47 Shareholder Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information financialS governance riSk performance Strategy overview GettinG into Gear inteGrated annual report for the Year ended 28 March 2014 strategic rePort risk risks and uncertainties continued Key Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Compliance The Group operates in an environment governed by legislation, standards and Regulatory requirements are closely monitored by our Company Secretarial codes in areas including, but not limited to, trading, advertising, product quality, team.
The Group has Quality Assurance and Compliance teams working in health and safety, hazardous substances, bribery act and data protection.
both the Retail and Autocentres businesses.
Specialist Health and Safety teams ensure that the Group has adequate policies and risk assessments.
Colleagues and management are trained to identify and handle regulatory issues using the 3-Gears training modules on our online Learning Management System.
We have a whistleblowing hotline that allows colleagues to raise concerns in confidence.
We operate a Code of Conduct that clearly sets out our expectations of suppliers.
We have a corporate delegated authorities framework How We Do Business setting out key authorisation levels.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption training has been delivered through face-to-face and online training sessions.
Changing Customer Preferences Some of the products that Halfords sells, particularly in the Car Enhancement Halfords has recruited experienced, knowledgeable trading colleagues who category, are subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences.
Products such can identify and interpret trends and consequently respond in a timely manner as childrens cycles face competition from alternative products such as games to changes in consumer preferences.
Colleagues also monitor developments consoles and some of the products that the Group sells are non-discretionary in in alternative products and our forecasts reflect the latest assumption in these their nature and predicting future trends is difficult.
We are continually looking at ways of moving into new merchandising opportunities to mitigate technology changes and to improve forecasting and planning to ensure we meet our customers changing needs.
Reliance on Foreign Manufacturers Halfords sources a significant proportion of the merchandise it sells in its stores Extensive research is conducted into quality and ethics before the Group from outside of the UK, either directly or via third-party suppliers.
Consequently, procures products from any new country or supplier.
The Groups strong the Group is subject to the risks associated with international trade particularly management team in the Far East has been recruited locally and understands those which are common in the import of goods from developing countries the local culture, market regulations and risks and we maintain very close including, but not limited to, inflation, currency fluctuation, the imposition of relationships with both our suppliers and shippers to ensure that disruption to taxes or other charges on imports, the exposure to different legal standards, production and supply are managed appropriately.
the burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws and changing foreign We work with suppliers in a number of territories to reduce the risks of disruption.
government policies and natural disasters.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 Key Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Product and Service Quality and Brand Reputation The Board recognises that the quality and safety of both our products and The Group constantly seeks to enhance its position as the store or centre of services in our stores and Autocentres is of critical importance to us and that first choice in each of the markets that it serves.
Halfords continues to invest in any major failure will affect consumer confidence and our reputation.
Failure both its existing estate to ensure that it remains contemporary and in constant to protect the Groups reputation and brand could lead to a loss of trust and product innovation to meet customer needs.
In addition, the Groups market confidence.
This could result in a decline in the customer base and affect the leading in-store wefit proposition provides a range of services at a lower cost to ability to recruit and retain good people.
There is also the risk that our service our customers than that provided by competitors.
proposition fails due to inconsistent levels of service at individual stores and Our Gears training programme uses online modules to ensure that colleagues individual centres, or through unavailability of stock as a result of disruption to the are consistently knowledgeable about our products and able to deliver quality supply chain e. g. unavailability of distribution centre.
We have also implemented measures to ensure that we attract and retain the best colleagues: Engagement Surveys aim to identify opportunities to reduce colleague turnover: we have recently been recognised as one of the Sunday Times 25 Best Big Companies to Work For: our recruitment processes are now centralised to improve efficiency and consistency.
Our products are thoroughly tested for safety and quality.
Complaints received in stores are closely monitored.
Management in both retail stores and Autocentres are incentivised on quality of service targets.
Our product recall procedures have been comprehensively reviewed and revised during the year.
We clearly set out our expectations for retail disciplines in-store to ensure on-shelf availability.
Our Autocentres business continually seeks to provide innovative solutions for their customers, such as brakes4life.
In our centres, the training of our technicians to provide high quality motor vehicle repairs is enhanced through an apprenticeship programme.
The majority of our centres workshop colleagues hold a Motor Industry qualification.
Repairs are subject to extensive quality assurance processes.
The business has developed and tested continuity plans.
Information Technology IT Systems and Infrastructure In common with most businesses, Halfords is dependent on the reliability and Extensive controls are in place to maintain the integrity of our systems and suitability of a number of important IT systems where any sustained performance to ensure that systems changes are implemented in a controlled manner.
problems including those caused by cyber-attack, could potentially compromise Halfords key trading systems are hosted within a secure data centre operated our operational capability for a period of time impacting on stores, centres or by a specialist company remote from our support centre.
These systems are warehouse, multi-channel and distribution systems.
With ambitious growth plans also supported by a number of disaster recovery arrangements including a for our multi-channel offer, our trading capacity could be affected by internal and comprehensive backup strategy, and a hotlink secure data centre hosted external systems resilience and interdependencies.
IT recovery processes are tested regularly.
We have successfully completed an upgrade of our core SAP system.
We have thoroughly reviewed our IT security processes this year and recruited a number of specialists to the IT team, including dedicated IT security and continuity experts.
Dependence on Key Management Personnel The success of the Groups business depends upon its Senior Management Our Remuneration Policy outlined on pages 92 to 101 details the strategies closely supervising all aspects of its business, in particular, the operation of the in place to ensure that high calibre Executives are attracted and retained.
The stores and autocentres, including the appropriate training of in-store and centre Group looks to improve its senior manager cadre through operating a talent colleagues, and the design, procurement and allocation of merchandise.
management process to help individuals achieve their full potential within Halfords and to ensure that appropriate succession plans are in place to meet the future needs of the business.
At a junior level the Group continues to invest in graduate programmes and store and centre colleague training and development.
indd 67 12 06 2014 14:22:47 Shareholder Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information financialS governance riSk performance Strategy overview getting into gear integrated annual report for the year ended 28 march 2014 68 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 halfords.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Governance Board of Directors 70 Directors Report 72 Corporate Governance Report 76 Audit Committee Report 86 Remuneration Committee Report 90 Directors Responsibilities 111 warmth and personality of refreshed stores brings the offer to life.
Read more ONL NE halfords.
com 69 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview
