Risk Management and Internal Controls Internal control The Groups treasury and hedging policy is kept under review to The Board meets regularly throughout the year and has adopted ensure that appropriate accounting and banking arrangements are a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for aligned with the Groups growth and to ensure continued compliance decision.
This procedure is intended to ensure that the Directors with accounting requirements.
maintain full and effective control over all significant strategic, The internal audit function has operated independently since 2004, financial and organisational issues.
reporting to the Audit Committee.
In 2008 09, a dedicated Internal Audit manager was added to support the function and during During the year, actions to strengthen the control environment 2010 11 an internal auditor based in China was recruited.
A further continue to be taken centrally by Group management.
The duties review of resources occurred in 2013 14 resulting in a plan to and responsibilities of subsidiary management are continually strengthen them in 2014 15.
Internal audit procedures evolve to refreshed as well as documented in a manual circulated to all reflectchanging circumstances and specific requirements and subsidiary managing directors and available on our collaboration to enhance effectiveness.
Acomprehensive induction programme for subsidiary finance directors was launched two years ago and our internal Group risk is mitigated by means of an operating structure which financial review procedures have been recently refreshed.
spreads the Groups activities across a number of autonomous Westrengthened the resources dedicated to identifying and subsidiary companies.
Each of these companies is led by a highinvestigating potential acquisitions and the policies to ensure a rapid quality board of directors including a finance executive.
and successful integration following acquisition.
The scope of the Groups policies and the programme of compliance audits are Group companies operate under a system of controls which includes regularly reviewed to ensure they are sufficient to address current but is not limited to: risks.
The Group placed additional emphasis on updating our a defined organisational structure with an appropriate delegation business continuity plans over recent years ensuring that they ofauthority to operational management which ensures appropriate are mutually complementary to our insurance programme.
segregation of key duties: Group internal control system The processes which the Board has applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control are summarised below: operating companies carry out a detailed risk assessment each year and identify mitigating actions in place or proposed for each significant risk.
A risk register is compiled from this information, against which operational risk action is monitored through to resolution and strategic risks are reported to the Group.
Group management also compiles a summary of significant Group risks, documenting existing or planned actions to mitigate, manage or avoid risks: each month the board of every operating company meets, discusses and reports on its operating performance, its opportunities, the risks facing it and the resultant actions.
The relevant Divisional Chief Executive now the Sector Chief Executive chairs this meeting and he meets regularly with the Chief Executive and Finance Director and reports on divisional sector progress to the Executive Board.
Please see page 29 for the Group structural changes: financial and trading warning signs are reported to Group and sector management.
Weekly data on cash management and sales and orders are also reported directly to the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Group finance team.
This framework is designed to provide an early warning of potential risks and to direct appropriate action where necessary: the Chief Executive submits a report to each Halma plc Board meeting which includes the main features of Group operations and an analysis of the significant risks and opportunities facing the Group.
The report also covers progress against strategic objectives and shareholder related issues.
The Finance Director also submits aseparate financial report to each Halma plc Board meeting: regular Director visits to Group companies are scheduled and open access to the subsidiary company boards is encouraged: cyclical and risk-based internal control visits are carried out by internal audit or senior finance staff resulting in actions being fed back to each company and followed up by Senior Finance Executives and Sector Chief Executives.
Reviews are coded in terms of risk and a summary of all such reviews is given to the Audit Committee, with any significant control failings being reported directly to the Audit Committee: senior finance staff also conduct financial reviews at each operating company before publication of half-year and year-end figures.
We have a Group-wide IT policy supported by a programme of IT audits.
Group IT manages aspects of our cyber security risks and IT development needs: and the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Internal Audit function report to the Audit Committee on all aspects ofinternal control.
The Board receives regular reports from the Audit Committee Chairman and the papers and minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are used as a basis for its annual review of internal control.
28 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements the identification and appraisal of risks both formally, through the self-certification by operating company management of annual process of preparing business plans and budgets, through compliance and control issues: an annual detailed risk assessment carried out at local level and a robust structure for electronic communication and conducting informally through close monitoring of operations: e-commerce to ensure that the Group is not negatively impacted by a comprehensive financial reporting system, regularly enhanced, threats to its information technology infrastructure and to minimise within which actual and forecast results are compared with potential for business disruptions.
The Group has a wide range of approved budgets and the previous years figures on a monthly measures and policies and a framework in place which includes a basis.
Weekly cash sales orders reporting including details of virtual private network covering over 100 sites worldwide, secure financial institutions is also maintained within the financial reporting firewalls, a new IT security and threat monitoring system, information system, all of which is reviewed at both local and Group level: management audits, disaster recovery and a mobile devices management system: and an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate level of approval for all capital expenditure and other capitalised costs: an acquisitions and disposals framework which governs the due diligence, negotiation, approval and integration processes to ensure that value-enhancing, quality investments are made in order to meet our strategic objectives.
Group risk management Board Operational Compliance Chief Executive Audit Committee Executive Board Company Secretary Subsidiary Company Boards Senior Finance Executives Internal Audit Whistleblowing The diagram below summarises our complementary integrated approach to risk management which has been aligned with the new sectorchanges.
Halma has also refined the timings of the Group-wide risk assessment as well as the division of responsibility for the yearlyrisk reviews.
Top Down Bottom Up Strategic Risk Management Operational Risk Management assessment of the effectiveness of risk management review and management of the strategic risks of the systems across the Group: and Group with visibility of the sector risks: reporting principal risks and uncertainties in the Group.
consideration of the environment in which the Group Board and operates: and Audit setting the risk appetite of the Group.
Committee delivery of Group strategic actions: and reviewing completeness and consistency across the monitoring Group key risk indicators.
sectors and adequacy of mitigation actions: Executive consideration of the aggregation of risk exposures across Board and the businesses: and Senior review management consolidation of operational risks Finance both sector and business unit, delegated as the Sector Executives Chief Executive deems appropriate.
execution of any Grouplevel strategic actions: and reporting of significant and emerging risks to the Group: reporting on any identified key risks and mitigation identification, evaluation, prioritisation, mitigation and progress.
monitoring of operational risks which are the Subsidiary responsibility of each subsidiary company: and Companies identification of strategic risks which are reported totheGroup.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29
