22HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 PrinCiPAL riSkS MANAGING RISK IN A FAST-MOvING WORLD riSk mAnAgement ACtionS to mitigAte riSk CYCLICAL NATURE OF OUR BUSINESS The performance of the Group The Group has diversified its operations to include a balance of both temporary and permanent issignificantly impacted by placement recruitment services to public and private sector markets, and operates across 33 changes to underlying economic countries and 20 sector specialisms.
Progress is being made to further diversify the business to activity, particularly in the UK, mitigate the Groups reliance on the UK, Germany and Australia.
The Groups cost base is highly variable and is carefully managed to align with business activity.
The Group has ensured that net debt has been kept at a low and appropriate level.
The Group is highly cash generative, requiring low levels of asset investment.
Cash collection is a key priority and the Group has made appropriate investment in its credit control and working capital management processes.
BUSINESS MODEL The Group faces competition We have leveraged our broad geographical and sectoral footprint to win and maintain a significant from the increasing use of number of multispecialism contracts with large corporate organisations.
This has strengthened our socialmedia for recruitment relationship with these clients and increased our share of their recruitment spend.
purposes and a growing We monitor changes in the market in terms of industry trends including social media and insourcing, trendtowards outsourced and continue to invest in our online presence to provide a high-quality customer experience.
recruitment models with associated margin pressures.
Our working partnership with LinkedIn increases our exposure to online professional networking and recruitment portals.
TALENT The Group is reliant on its ability We continue to ensure that overall remuneration packages are competitive.
These include a longto recruit, train, develop and term incentive scheme, which is offered to some 320 senior managers and aids retention.
retain staff to deliver its growth We continue to invest in our leadership and development programmes which are aligned with the plans internationally.
We provide sustainable career development paths for new recruits, starting with a structured induction programme and ongoing training as they progress their careers at Hays.
Development centres focus on the progress of high potential individuals, providing further development opportunities but also helping to identify any talent gaps.
Annual succession plans are undertaken at Board and Management Board levels and across all regions to identify future potential leaders of the business and produce individual development plans.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 22HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 23 riSk mAnAgement ACtionS to mitigAte riSk COMPLIANCE Increased employment law All new employees receive training in respect of the relevant operating standards applicable to their and regulations specific to recruitment role, with additional support provided by compliance functions.
certain business sectors and for Compliance processes and monitoring are tailored to specific specialisms, ensuring additional focus temporary workers, in particular, is given to our high-risk specialisms such as Education and Healthcare.
necessitate pre-employment checks, which may increase the Operational and support staff receive regular training to ensure that legal and compliance Groups exposure to potential legal, updatesare understood and applied.
In territories where legislation sets out additional compliance financial and reputational risk.
An example of this is in occupational health and safety inAustralia.
Dedicated compliance auditors conduct spot checks on candidate records, to ensure that the appropriate candidate vetting checks and due diligence obligations are carried out in line with legal and contractual requirements.
RELIANCE ON TECHNOLOGY Our dependence on technology The Groups technology strategy is regularly reviewed to ensure that the systems it operates across in our day-to-day business the Group support its strategic direction.
means that systems failure and Ongoing asset lifecycle management programmes mitigate risks of hardware obsolescence.
loss of data would have a high impact on our operations.
Technology systems are housed in various data centres and the Group has capacity to cope with adata centres loss through the establishment of disaster recovery sites that are physically based in separate locations to the ongoing operations.
DATA GOvERNANCE The Group works with Procedures for handling and storing confidential, sensitive and personal data are in place across confidential, sensitive and theGroup.
personal data in 33 countries Data protection and information security policies and procedures are also in place across the Group on a daily basis under a variety and, where data protection and privacy legislation allows, email monitoring programmes are of laws and regulations.
A undertaken to address potential areas of concern and to protect our confidential information.
compliance failure would expose the Group to potential legal, financial and reputational risk.
CONTRACTS The Group enters into During contract negotiations management seeks to minimise risk and ensure that the nature of risks contractual arrangements and their potential impact is understood.
withclients, some of which Our global legal team has the depth of knowledge and experience to enable them to advise canbe onerous.
management on the level of risk presented in contracts.
Assurance work is undertaken in key countries by Internal Audit to ensure appropriate management of key contractual obligations.
The Group Finance Director reviews and approves all commercial contracts with onerous nonstandard terms.
Reviews are performed on a risk basis across key contracts to identify and agree improvements to the way in which we deliver services to clients.
FOREIGN ExCHANGE The Group has significant Profits from Euro-based markets and Australia are a material proportion of the Groups profitability.
operations outside the UK and There is no active management of foreign exchange translation risk.
istherefore exposed to foreign exchange translation risk.
