Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 19 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties The HellermannTyton Group faces a number of risks in its day-to-day activities.
Our responsibility is to mitigate these risks and uncertainties with a formal risk management process.
We have identified below the main risks that we believe can adversely affect our results, impact our employees, operations, revenue, profits, cash flows or net assets.
The Groups risk register is built up from contributions from the provides the Audit Committee with a quarterly update of the risk manufacturing and associated sales operations.
There has been a management activity and the risk register is a standing item in the top down review by members of the Executive Committee and business performance reviews.
Board, facilitated by Internal Audit.
Risk registers are maintained and In the table below, we have selected from the risk register those periodically updated.
As well as identifying the headline risks, items that we currently consider to have the greatest potential emerging risks are also identified and members of management are impact on the Group.
The order in which they are presented is assigned to monitor and oversee actions taken to mitigate them.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that risks are During 2014 we have continued to refine the reports with a view managed appropriately and, either directly or through the Audit tofurther developing best practice and sharing mitigations Committee, reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk and solutions.
management process and other internal controls.
Internal audit Risk description Mitigating activities Reputation Close scrutiny of product quality and customer scorecards Inferior product quality, poor service or damage caused by the Groups On-time delivery performance products could result in new or existing customers being less willing to dobusiness with HellermannTyton.
Customer relationships Close monitoring and review of strategy and customer activity If a number of customer relationships were terminated or the number Review of market activity of products delivered reduced within a short period of time, the Groups results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected.
Investment in sales and marketing Lower pricedcompetitor Close monitoring of competitors pricing If the Group is unable to be competitive on prices, it may not be able Close analysis of new product development programme toretain existing customers or win new customers.
Initiatives to maximise product cost-effectiveness Retention, development and incentivisation of key employees Alignment of objectives, incentives and remuneration Business operations could be adversely affected by a failure to attract, Maintenance of positive work environment retain, develop and incentivise key personnel in sales, marketing, product development, operations, finance and management.
Encouragement of initiative and innovation Automotive market demand Close monitoring of market and customer activity A substantial deterioration in vehicle production such as that experienced Broaden product range and customer base in2008 and 2009 could have a significant negative effect on the Groups sales and results of operations.
Innovation and new product development Diversified product range If the Group fails to deliver complex and innovative solutions as well as Investment in new product development and hightoanticipate technological trends, it could lose market share and suffer calibre employees adverse effects on future growth.
Close monitoring of product development programme and milestones Third-party manufacturers Maintain multiple sources of supply and strong supplier relationships The Groups production or distribution could be adversely affected if there are any significant adverse changes with respect to moulding equipment suppliers or suppliers of bought-in products.
Raw materials supply Maintain multiple suppliers and manage volume limits from each supplier, as well as safety stock and source from other If the Group faces any restrictions in its sourcing of raw materials, itcould face significant disruptions to production or supply of goods Group sites toits customers.
Foreign exchange movements Close monitoring of foreign exchange exposures and hedging ofexposures with forward exchange contracts Significant adverse exchange movements could impact negatively on theprofitability of the Group.
