Home Retail Group 24 Annual Report 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties We outline below the principal risks and uncertainties to achieving theGroups strategic priorities together with our mitigating activities.
For further information on how we manage risk, see the business reviews on pages 12 to 21 and also page 37 within the corporate governance section for an overview of our risk management process.
Speci c financial risks are detailed on page 31 of the Group financial review.
RISK AND UNCERTAINTY DESCRIPTION AND EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIVITY OTHER MITIGATING ACTIVITIES As referenced within our strategy section on page 5, both Argos Regular review of performance against strategic targets Business and Homebase have clear strategies for growth and as a Group Engaging with strategic advisors to enrich and challenge strategy we will continue to make significant investment in both brands internal intellect Inappropriate strategies to deliver these strategies.
Communication with stakeholders: investors, colleagues, Poor investment decisions suppliers, government etc.
At every Plc and Operating Board meeting, strategic issues including risks and opportunities are discussed.
In addition, time Inadequate execution is dedicated to strategic reviews at various executive meetings across the Group.
Our business reviews clearly demonstrate that both brands Price tracking versus our competition and dynamic pricing to Trading have made progress towards the delivery of our strategic ensure price competitiveness is maintained environment priorities as well as trading strongly in what continues to Enhancing customer choice by continuing to strengthen Impact on sales, gross be a subdued consumer environment.
Our broad customer product range architecture margins, costs, profi t demographic appeal, which we continue to strengthen, Providing customers with a range of financing options to and cash of: provides mitigation against the risk of variable levels of recovery facilitate retail purchases Economic and financial across the UK economy.
Continuous review and challenge of our cost base to maintain conditions our low-cost operating model Sales across the Group are assisted by our in-house Financial Cost of raw material Services business, making it easier for our customers to buy Ongoing evaluation to optimise the Groups store network products services utilities the products they want.
Competitor activity We have robust planning processes: however, unseasonal or extreme weather events have the potential to create significant Seasonality and or sales variations.
weather We have embedded disciplines to maintain strong UK-centric store network management of working capital and cash generation and we have strong management of key relationships with banks and credit insurers.
Both businesses have a demanding schedule of projects to Detailed approval and planning process prior to project Infrastructure commencement deliver.
Our governance framework will be instrumental in development ensuring successful delivery of all aspects of the strategic Board review of status progress of major change programmes projects programmes.
The Group has entered into a number of strategic technology Delay or failure to manage partnerships to enhance innovation and delivery and implement major Post-project implementation reviews business and infrastructure projects effectively The Group values its colleagues and their contribution to the Competitive remuneration packages with oversight by the Our colleagues success of the organisation.
Internal and external training Remuneration Committee Reliance on key personnel schemes and an A-level and graduate recruitment programme Twice-yearly comprehensive succession planning sessions, Availability of specialist alongside active succession planning enable the Group to both up to Operating Board level skills attract and maintain a strong workforce.
We are adaptive in our Suite of development programmes for high-potential Pension obligations quest for talent and establishing new ways of working to attract colleagues at all levels of the organisation and retain the next generation of industry leaders.
We are Deployment of pensions auto-enrolment, making saving into committed to open communications with colleagues at all a defined contribution scheme accessible to all colleagues times and monitor employee satisfaction through listening Active collaboration with pension trustee to support groups and employee forums.
a sustainable reduction of the closed defined benefit fund deficit FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 25 RISK AND UNCERTAINTY DESCRIPTION AND EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIVITY OTHER MITIGATING ACTIVITIES Both businesses are customer-centric, with the customer at Extend use of technology platforms and innovations to give Our customers the heart of their strategies.
We are continuously listening and customers choice in how they shop with us Failing to meet responding to our customers to enhance their shopping Understanding customer engagement and building on the expectations experience.
Both businesses continue to expand both product existing loyalty to our brands Consumer preferences choice and services which, combined with improved store and Continuous review of key customer metrics such as mystery Changing demographics product presentation, will benefit our customers.
shopping and exit interviews Engaging with customers through social media Transitioning Argos away from catalogue-centric operations, Actively testing alternatives to the traditional Argos catalogue Operations format whilst retaining core competencies for competitive advantage, Failure to ensure is being achieved via cross-functional working parties with a Maintaining and extending Homebases award-winning appropriate processes are strong project management office.
Homebases store installation services for kitchens, bathrooms and bedroom in place to manage the investment programme is supported by extensive colleague furniture complexity of operations, training to ensure a step-change in both customer experience Targeted investment in customer service including multi-channel as well as the in-store environment.
This will provide the ability Exploiting existing infrastructure to develop market-leading and customer service to showcase the exclusive brands that offer competitive fulfilment options differentiation, such as Habitat and Odina.
Product availability remains a key priority as the Group mitigates complex supply chain risks through robust processes and new initiatives to enable immediacy on a wide range of products.
Strong global sourcing capabilities with established buying Seek opportunities for further sourcing efficiencies Sourcing, product operations in Asia continue to be leveraged to control the cost Standard terms and conditions for all suppliers to meet quality and safety of goods sold and therefore benefit customers.
required performance standards Strength and Rigorous quality safety assessment programme for products The safety and quality of our products is of paramount management of with regular review and approval of product safety importance to the Group.
Suppliers are required to sign up to supplier relationships management process by Trading Standards Primary Authority the Groups supply chain principles and to specific policies Appropriate quality and regarding products and their environmental impact.
Pre-shipment inspection of imports by a third party and our safety checks are in place own quality teams in Asia We look for opportunities to support ethical standards, including Purchase of products Robust risk-based approach to factory auditing thorough ethical audits of all own-brand, direct-source suppliers whose cost base of and membership of Sedex, a collaborative platform for ethical Treasury policies to hedge currencies and forward buying of manufacture is in supply chain data.
freight commitments, with adjustments to customer pricing currencies other than to reflect movement in hedged currency rates and freight costs With over a third of products imported, the volatility of the global sterling, principally the Monitoring and review of financial services products to ensure economy exposes the Group to both currency fluctuations, US dollar fair customer outcomes particularly the US dollar, and changes in freight costs.
Appropriateness of financial services products Good governance practices are important to the Group.
Membership of industry representative groups, including the Regulatory In addition to ensuring compliance with existing requirements British Retail Consortium environment such as data protection, health and safety and financial services Proactive engagement with government and regulators such Changes in UK and regulations, we are active in monitoring potential future as the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills and overseas legislation Trading Standards developments.
For example, we continuously challenge our and regulation, eg environmental impact by setting and achieving stretching Dedicated working parties to manage operational change consumer protection, targets for fuel efficiency, waste reduction and energy Ongoing engagement with the Financial Conduct Authority environmental consumption.
We also lobby, often with other retailers, regarding financial services products regulation to support and develop the industry and the interests of Changes in UK fiscal consumers.
As a major employer in the retail sector, external employment policy influences on our cost base, such as increases to the national Changes in regulation minimum wage, are an inherent risk which we continuously seek of the financial services to offset through a pipeline of cost-efficiency initiatives.
industry A major incident could impact the ability of the Group to Business continuity and recovery planning and testing Business continue trading.
We manage this risk by maintaining and IT recovery plans, including website resilience and interruption regularly testing our business continuity plans.
Mitigating penetration tests Failure or against cyber-attacks is taken seriously by the Group to Ongoing, real-time technology defence mechanisms unavailability of maintain confidence in the security and availability of all our Third-party supplier management operational and or shopping channels.
The Group maintains good awareness of IT infrastructure its supply base to identify vulnerabilities and works towards Delay or interruption a sustainable outcome for all parties when issues arise.
in products or services provided by thirdparty suppliers
