Governance Audit & Risk Committee report The Committee has implemented a policy relating to the use of the external auditors for non-audit services and monitors fees paid in respect of such services.
This policy provides that the total fees payable to the auditor for non-audit related work in any financial year should not normally be more than 100% of the total fees payable in respect of audit and audit-related assurance services.
In addition, any proposed spend over a predetermined limit must be approved by the Committee.
The fees payable to the auditor for non-audit related work excluding audit-related assurance services totalled 176,000 and the fees payable in respect of audit and audit-related assurance services totalled 320,000.
Further detail on the fees paid is provided in Note 7.
In accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland 260 and Ethical Statement 1 issued by the Accounting Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external auditor has confirmed his independence as auditor of the Company in a letter addressed to the Directors.
Risk management and internal control As stated in the Corporate Governance report, the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit & Risk Committee supports the Board by advising the Groups overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy, current risk exposures and future risk strategy.
The Committee reviews risk registers produced by the management of each business and the plc function at each of its meetings.
On a periodic basis, it also reviews action plans in respect of significant risks.
The Committee also monitors, on behalf of the Board, the effectiveness of the Companys accounting and internal control systems.
In fulfilling this responsibility, the Committee receives reports from management and the internal and external auditors.
Further details in respect of risk management and controls are set out in the Corporate Governance report.
