Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of HomeServe plc Opinion on financial statements of HomeServe plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group income statement, the Group and Company statement of comprehensive income, the Group and Company balance sheets, the Group and Company cash flow statement, the Group and Company statements of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 54.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 61 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: 102 | HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Provision for FCA remediation activities, FCA investigation and fine Whilst nearing completion of the remediation We have assessed the key assumptions underlying the process, the Group continues to provide for the provision included in the Annual report and financial cost associated with the remediation activities statements.
These include expected response rate, in the UK business, aimed at addressing the unsuitability rate and average redress.
We have compared Groups sales and marketing, controls and these to the position taken at the interim half year governance and complaints handling issues in announcement and to the latest available management accordance with the requirements of the FCA.
information, which reflects the actual costs incurred so far.
We have compared a sample of costs to external supporting The directors are required to make a number of documentation to verify their accuracy.
estimates and assumptions around response rate, unsuitability rate and average redress We have reviewed related correspondence with the FCA payable to those affected, all of which affect including in relation to the fine and have spoken directly the level of the required provision.
The risk is with the FCAs supervisory team.
that these estimates and assumptions do not Given the difference in quantum between managements accurately reflect actual experience.
provision at the time of the 2013 Annual report and financial In addition, during the year a fine of 30.6m statements and the fine actually levied, we assessed has been levied on the Group as a result of the whether the adjustment for this meets the definition of a Financial Conduct Authority FCA investigation prior period error under IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes into past practices.
in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
We have also reviewed the disclosure in the Annual report and financial statements to determine whether this is consistent with the findings of our audit work.
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets The Groups assessment of the potential We challenged managements key assumptions relating impairment of goodwill and intangible assets is to the estimated future cash flows, growth rates and the a judgemental process which requires estimates discount rates applied to the separate cash generating concerning the future cash flows of each cash units including consideration of our understanding of the generating unit and associated discount rates future prospects of the business.
Our procedures included and growth rates based on managements view reviewing forecast cash flows with reference to historical of future business prospects.
trading performance and benchmarking assumptions such as the growth rate and discount rate to external macroeconomic and market data.
Revenue recognition The revenue recognition risks are inappropriate We tested controls over the revenue recognition process and cut off of policy revenue, accounting to reflect performed testing around the cut off and timing of revenue expected policy cancellations and the deferral of recognition for policy income.
This involved reviewing the revenue relating to claims handling.
trend of cancellations subsequent to the year end to ensure revenue has been correctly recognised in the year.
We also challenged and tested the methodology used for calculating expected policy cancellations and deferral of revenue relating to claims handling by auditing the inputs and assumptions used by reference to the historical claims and cancellation rates experienced by the Group.
