Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties HomeServe has a risk management process which provides a structured and consistent framework for identifying, assessing and responding to risks.
These risks are assessed in relation to the The table below sets out what the Board Groups strategy, business performance believes to be the principal risks and and financial condition and a formal uncertainties facing the Group, the mitigating risk mitigation plan is agreed with clear actions for each, and an update on any ownership and accountability.
Risk change in the profile of each risk during management operates at all levels the past year.
These should be read in throughout the Group, across geographies conjunction with the Strategic report.
Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are not currently aware or which we Risks to HomeServes business are either currently believe are not significant may specific to HomeServes business model, also adversely affect our strategy, business such as affinity partner relationships and performance or financial condition in underwriting, or more general, such as the future.
the impact of competition and regulatory compliance.
Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2013 Annual Report Ability to implement an Over the past two years, we have During FY14 we have made further updated strategy successfully strengthened the UK management progress in restoring our customer within the UK business team and have tested a number focused culture in the UK.
We of new product developments have seen further improvements The successful implementation and marketing initiatives, many of in customer satisfaction, together of an updated strategy and which we are now in the process of with a continued reduction in the the restoration of a customer implementing.
focused culture in the UK business is of considerable The UK business has a detailed Our marketing effectiveness has importance to our future.
project plan covering a number of improved significantly during areas including sales and marketing the year, which combined with a If we are not able to implement effectiveness, governance and higher retention rate, now leads the strategy or achieve the controls and customer service.
These us to believe our customer number restoration as effectively or as actions are carefully monitored and in the UK will stabilise at at least rapidly as we intend, the future updated as we complete initiatives.
2.0m, which is 0.1m higher than our performance of the UK business previous expectation.
may be adversely affected, The business has the financial strength potentially materially.
to incur additional costs if necessary.
36 | HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2013 Annual Report Commercial relationships We have regular contact and reviews We have continued to sign and renew affinity partnerships with with the senior management of our Underpinning the success in utilities in the UK, Spain and the affinity partners to ensure that we our chosen markets are close USA.
respond to their needs and deliver the commercial relationships service that they expect.
affinity partner relationships In the UK, we have renewed all principally with utility companies There are a number of partnerships partners that were due to renew.
The across our markets that mitigate, in In France, we continue to work with loss of one of these relationships part, the impact of losing any single Veolia under a long term marketing could impact our future relationship.
customer and policy growth plans and retention rates.
In the USA, we have signed new agreements with 12 utilities.
While these partnerships are secured under long-term In Spain, we have seen strong contracts, which increase the growth in customer and policy security of these relationships numbers in FY14 with our existing over the medium-term, they partners, while also signing a new can be terminated in certain long term agreement with a water circumstances.
Competition The market and the activities of other There has been no significant participants are regularly reviewed change in the competitive There are a number of to ensure that the strategies and landscape in any of the countries in businesses that provide services offerings of current and potential which we operate.
that are similar to those of the competitors are fully understood.
Group and could therefore In the UK, we have seen increased compete in one or more of our Both qualitative and quantitative media advertising by our main chosen markets.
Increased research is undertaken to ensure that competitor but this has not had an competition could affect our our products and services continue impact on our ability to achieve our ability to meet our expectations to meet the needs of our customers targets.
and objectives for the business whilst retaining a competitive position In the USA we have seen an in terms of the number of in the market.
increased number of requests customers, policies or the We believe we have a compelling for proposal being issued by financial returns achieved.
proposition for customers, providing utilities in relation to our products them with real value.
This helps reduce and services.
While we see some the impact of increased competition.
other parties participate in these tenders, we believe that, overall, this is positive for our business as it demonstrates an increased awareness of our products and services in the USA.
In France and Spain, there has been no significant change in the competitive landscape.
HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 | 37 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2013 Annual Report Customer loyalty retention The policy retention rate is one of Retention remains high in all our our Key Performance Indicators.
A key element of our business Any variance to budget is carefully model is customer loyalty.
Any In the UK, the rate has increased investigated to identify why customer reduction in the proportion to 82% compared to 79% in the behaviour is changing and to of customers renewing their previous year.
The rate has been implement corrective action where policies could significantly increasing during the year due possible.
to a number of factors, including We have a wide range of tools enhancements to our products, available to manage retention greater clarity in our marketing rates, including specific retention activity and changes to our pricing propositions.
strategy In the USA, the rate has increased There are also dedicated retention call to 81%.
centre agents who are trained and experienced in talking to customers In France, Domo maintained its who are considering not renewing retention rate of 89%.
Marketing effectiveness The performance of each marketing We are continuing to test different campaign and channel is regularly product and pricing propositions in A significant reduction in reviewed, with any significant our direct mail marketing in the UK.
the response rates on direct deviation to the expected response marketing or telesales In the UK, we have further rate quickly identified and remedial campaigns could have a developed our digital channel action taken for subsequent significant impact on customer and sales through our partner campaigns.
Within the digital channel we are seeing a significant number of customers opting for our bundled products, and will typically purchase around 6 policies in the first year.
We now have agreement with 60% of our utility partners to use their call centres to assist our new customer acquisition activity.
Development of these two channels is serving to reduce our reliance on direct mail activity.
38 | HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2013 Annual Report During FY14 we have strengthened Exposure to legislation or We have regulatory specialists and regulatory requirements compliance teams within each of our our regulatory and compliance businesses to help ensure that all teams across all our businesses We are subject to a broad aspects of the legislative regime in and completed a review of the spectrum of regulatory each territory are fully understood and legislative landscape, and our requirements in each of the adopted as required.
compliance with it, in each of the markets in which we operate, markets in which we operate.
particularly relating to product Specifically in the UK, we maintain design, marketing materials, regular dialogue with the FCA.
In the UK, we have completed the sales processes and data implementation of our business We keep up to date with changes in protection.
improvement initiatives which were government and regulatory policy, in line with the feedback from our Failure to comply with the which ensures that our products and FCA supervisory team in FY12.
regulatory requirements in any services are designed, marketed and of our countries could result in sold in accordance with all relevant The FCA investigation into our us having to suspend, either legal and regulatory requirements and historical UK issues has now temporarily or permanently, that their terms and conditions remain concluded.
appropriate and meet the customer In the USA we have been need.
In addition, legislative changes proactively working with local related to our partners may We continue to provide good customer attorney generals and media change their obligations with service to reduce a customers commentators to ensure they regard to the infrastructure they propensity to cancel a policy.
understand the service offered currently manage and hence the by HomeServe and to minimise products and services we can the risk of any negative media offer to customers.
It is possible commentary when we launch own such legislative changes could brand campaigns into new states.
reduce, or even remove, the need for certain of our products In France we are aware that and services.
Hamon Law is likely to be enacted in the next year, which would enable customers to cancel insurance policies after the first year outside the normal renewal cycle, something that is currently prohibited in France.
Financial cost of customer Our estimate of the amount required During FY14 we completed the re-contact exercises has been closely monitored to ensure re-contact of all customers whose it is sufficient to cover the cost of these complaints may not have been The cost of re-contacting exercises.
appropriately managed during the customers and the possible winter of 2010.
In addition, we compensation that may be The UK business is a cash generative, re-contacted customers who may paid to them, if any detriment profitable business which can meet have suffered detriment as a result is identified, has been based the associated costs of the re-contact of the way in which they were sold on our estimates.
that the actual number of customers, response rates and level of compensation could be different.
HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 | 39 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2013 Annual Report During FY14 we identified that the original provision was lower than that required to complete the customer re-contact exercises and so increased our provision during the year by 19.0m.
The provision at 31 March 2014 is appropriate.
Availability of underwriters We use a number of underwriters, We continue to review our with the main provider in the UK being underwriting relationships on The policies that we market and separate to those in the rest of Europe a regular basis to ensure they administer with customers are and the USA.
provide the best returns for each individually underwritten customers and shareholders.
by third party underwriters, We have regular contact and reviews independent of HomeServe.
with the senior management of the underwriters to ensure that claims We act as an insurance frequencies, repair costs and service intermediary and do not take on standards are in line with their any material insurance risk.
If these underwriters were The principal underwriters are subject unable unwilling to underwrite to medium-term agreements, with the these risks it would require us rates subject to regular review.
to insure these risks directly, In addition, we maintain relationships thereby exposing the business with a number of underwriters and to material insurance risk, which regularly review the market to ensure is contrary to our preferred we understand current market operating model.
conditions, how these apply to our policies and how we can mitigate the loss of an existing underwriter.
Quality of customer service We monitor customer service In FY14 we have continued to standards at a number of different monitor customer satisfaction Our reputation is heavily customer contact points in each of across all our operations at a dependent on the quality of our our operations using both internal number of different customer customer service.
data and an independent third party contact points.
Any failure to meet our service Reflecting the importance of standards or negative media The results of these are reviewed customer service to our business, coverage of poor service could on a regular basis and action plans all senior managers have have a detrimental impact on produced to address the key issues.
customer service performance as customer and policy numbers.
a significant component of their Processes have been established annual bonus opportunity.
to ensure that all directly employed engineers and sub-contractors meet minimum standards.
These include criminal record checks and minimum qualification requirements.
40 | HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2013 Annual Report Dependence on recruitment Our employment policies, We have continued to strengthen and retention of skilled remuneration and benefits packages, our management teams across personnel and long-term incentives are regularly all our operations particularly in reviewed and designed to be the areas of compliance, project Our ability to meet growth management and IT.
expectations and compete effectively is, in part, dependent Employee surveys, performance on the skills, experience and reviews and regular communication performance of our personnel.
of business activities are just some The inability to attract, motivate of the methods used to understand or retain key talent could and respond to employees views and impact on our overall business needs.
Processes are in place to identify high performing individuals and to ensure that they have fulfilling careers, and we are managing succession planning.
Exposure to country and The criteria for entering a new country During FY14 we have continued our regional risk development of businesses within include a full assessment of the our New Markets segment in Italy stability of its economy and political As a result of our growing and Germany only.
situation, together with a review of the international footprint we are manner and way in which business is subject to increased economic, conducted.
political and other risks associated with operating in When entering a new country, we overseas territories.
generally do so on a small scale test basis.
This low risk entry strategy A variety of factors, including minimises the likelihood of any changes in a specific countrys significant loss.
political, economic or regulatory requirements, as well as the potential for geographical turmoil including terrorism and war, could result in the loss of service.
Our IT systems become a The Group reviews its systems and During FY14 we commenced constraint to growth and processes on a regular basis.
As part the project to replace our core drive inefficiency instead of of these reviews it looks at the future customer system, Ensura and efficiency improvements plans of each of the businesses in have now partnered with Pega terms of customer and policy growth, Systems Inc to develop the system.
The Groups core IT system product and process design and Ensura is used in each of our development requirements and the businesses.
The system is now potential impact on IT systems.
around 20 years old and has had a number of in house developments.
The system is dependent on internal development resource and knowledge.
HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 | 41 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2013 Annual Report All system developments and This project will last for the next 2-3 enhancements undergo a rigorous years.
The new system will improve financial review and the proposed our marketing effectiveness and benefits are monitored and subject to retention by providing better post implementation reviews.
customer insight and flexibility around the products and offers Our IT developments are subject to we can provide our customers.
a prioritisation process which takes The new system will improve the into account the availability of both speed and access our call centre internal and external resource and the agents have to customer data thus proposed benefits of the project.
improving the customer experience and providing efficiencies.
It will also help us to more easily link into new partners systems allowing us to increase the speed and efficiency of new partner integrations.
Financial strategy and treasury Interest rate risk As a result of our relatively low level risk Our policy is to manage our interest of bank borrowings and a stable cost using a mix of fixed and variable interest environment we have not The main financial risks are the rate debts.
Where necessary, this is entered into any swaps during availability of short and longachieved by entering into interest rate FY14.
term funding to meet business swaps for certain periods, in which needs, the risk of policyholders There has been no significant we agree to exchange, at specified not paying monies owed and change in the level of mid-term intervals, the difference between fixed fluctuations in interest rates.
and variable rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed Our banking facility is not due for notional principal amount.
Our net debt at swaps are designated to hedge 31 March 2014 was 42m, underlying debt obligations.
significantly within the facility limit Credit risk of 250m.
The risk associated with cash and cash equivalents is managed by only depositing funds with reputable and creditworthy banking institutions.
The risk of a policyholder defaulting is mitigated as any policy cover will cease as and when any premium fails to be paid.
Liquidity risk We manage liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities and continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows.
