Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company and considers that the Groups principal 20 risks and uncertainties, together with an indication of actions taken to manage and mitigate them, are as detailed below.
They do not comprise all risks associated with the Group and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks not presently known to management or currently deemed to be less material may also have an adverse effect on the Groups business in the future.
Risk Description and Impact Mitigating Factors Market conditions The Groups products are predominantly sold to small local builders for installation in public and We monitor the market closely and can take swift management action as necessary in response to adverse changes, private housing, mainly in the repair, maintenance and improvement markets.
with the aim that the business is aligned to market conditions and, consequently, that we should have sufficient cash and borrowing facilities for business needs and adequate covenant headroom.
The Groups results are consequently dependent on levels of activity in these markets, which are impacted by many factors including general economic conditions, consumer confidence, interest rates and credit availability, unemployment, demographic trends and, in the short-term, weather.
A severe downturn in market conditions could impact on our ability to achieve our sales and profit forecasts.
This could in turn put pressure on our cash availability and banking covenants.
Failure to implement The future success of the business depends on the successful implementation of the Led by the actions of the Board and Executive Committee, the business model and the Howdens culture are at the centre of the Groups business Groups business model and locally-enabled, entrepreneurial culture.
the activities and the decision-making processes of the Group, and are continually emphasised.
The Executive and senior model and culture management regularly visit our depots and factories, and hold regular events during which they reinforce the importance of the In particular, if the Group fails to implement its business model in the locally-enabled, Groups business model and culture.
Throughout the business, successful implementation of the Groups business model and decentralised manner envisaged, there may be an adverse effect on the Groups future culture forms the basis of the incentive structure.
Failure to maximise The Group considers that there is significant potential for growth, and has identified this The Group places continuing focus on the opportunities, challenges and additional requirements related to growth.
The potential exploiting the as a strategic opportunity and aim.
for growth is incorporated into group strategic plans and budgets, and existing structures and skills are reviewed in the context growth potential of growth, and adjusted where necessary.
of the business If the growth opportunities are not understood and exploited in line with our business model, or if current structures and skills within the Group are not aligned to meet the challenges of growth, there may be an adverse effect on the Groups ability to obtain maximum benefit from this growth potential.
Continuity of supply The Groups business model requires that every depot can supply product from local stock.
With suppliers, the Group tries to maintain dual supply wherever possible to mitigate the effects if a key supplier was unable to deliver goods or services.
We also enter into long-term contracts to secure supply of our key materials.
Good supplier relations Any disruption to the relationship with key suppliers or interruption to manufacturing operations are maintained by prompt settlement of invoices, regular communication and an annual supplier conference.
Within our could adversely affect the Groups ability to implement the business model.
manufacturing operations, we adopt best practice health & safety and fire prevention procedures.
Business continuity plans are in place for key production processes.
The Group continues to make significant investment in its manufacturing facilities, to enable manufacturing capacity to match our expected growth as well as providing further cabinet production capacity which now provides additional cover in the event of an interruption to manufacturing operations.
Loss of key The skills, experience and performance of key members of the Groups management team make The Group uses the Remuneration Committee to ensure that key team members are appropriately compensated personnel a large contribution to the Groups success.
for their contributions and incentivised to continue their careers with the Group.
The loss of a key member of the Groups management team could adversely affect the Groups operations.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company and considers that the Groups principal 21 risks and uncertainties, together with an indication of actions taken to manage and mitigate them, are as detailed below.
