STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 36 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISKS SPECIFIC TO THE NATURE OF HUNTING GROUP BUSINESSES RAW MATERIAL AND SHALE DRILLING COMMODITY PRICES Hunting is exposed to the consequences of The Group provides products to the oil and gas IN ITS DAY-TO-DAY OPERATIONS, fluctuations in the price of oil and gas as the shale drilling industry.
Although it is now an THE GROUP IS EXPOSED TO A supply and demand for energy is a key driver established practice in the US, significant WIDE VARIETY OF COMMERCIAL, of demand for Huntings products.
sections of the public continue to view this activity as high risk and any consequent OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL RISKS Oil and gas exploration companies may reduce moratorium or new laws may unfavourably AND THE BOARD HAS ESTABLISHED or curtail operations if oil and gas prices fall impact the industry.
AN INTERNAL CONTROL PROCESS to levels where exploration and production activities become uneconomical.
Therefore, Controls and Actions TO MANAGE, MONITOR AND REVIEW the continuation of prices above these levels is, The Board monitors public and political opinion THESE RISKS.
THIS PROCESS IS in part, critical to the industry and the financial and maintains an awareness of the potential for viability of the Hunting Group.
changes to legislation especially with regard to DESCRIBED IN MORE DETAIL IN THE the US where the Group is mainly exposed.
Controls and Actions GROUP RISKS ARE FORMALLY Working capital and, in particular, inventory The Group maintains a diverse portfolio of levels are closely managed to ensure the Group products that extends beyond supplying the REVIEWED BY THE BOARDAT maintains flexibility to meet changes in demand.
shale drilling industry, including the supplies LEAST THREE TIMES A YEAR for conventional drilling and the manufacture AND ARE DISCUSSED AT EVERY The Group maintains three operating platforms: of high precision and advanced technology the Well Construction and Well Completion components for both the onshore and BOARD MEETING.
segments expect to benefit when exploration offshore markets.
companies are active in their drilling operations THE GROUPS PRINCIPAL RISKS ARE and the Well Intervention segment benefits Many of the Groups facilities have the flexibility when wells are subject to maintenance or to reconfigure their manufacturing processes to THOSE THAT THE BOARD CONSIDERS require testing or repair work.
meet with a change in the pattern of demand.
COULD HAVE A MAJOR IMPACT ON Movement in Year Movement in Year THE OPERATIONAL, FINANCIAL AND The decline in global oil and gas prices during The Board believes that US consumers remain REPORTED PERFORMANCE OF THE 2014 continues to be closely monitored by the aware of the relative benefits and risks associated BUSINESS AND ARE THEREFORE OF Group.
Regular contact with customers provides with shale drilling and that the public in general management with the ability to assess the remains in favour of the activity.
potential impact on demand for the Groups products and services and for management to Following the recent fall in oil and gas prices, respond accordingly.
the Board expects to see reduced levels of shale drilling in the US.
Appropriate measures are being implemented to address the consequential reduction in demand for products and services supplied to the shale industry.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 37 COMPETITION ACQUISITIONS AND PRODUCT QUALITY CAPITAL INVESTMENT AND RELIABILITY The Groups ability to win and maintain contracts Acquisitions and capital investment form the The Group has an established reputation for is defined by its relationships with its key basis of the Groups strategy of expansion and producing a range of high quality components customers and its ability to provide a quality of development.
Such activity incurs the potential capable of operating within high pressure, high product that is superior to that of its competitors.
for business disruption, management distraction, temperature environments.
A material reduction in orders from a major interruption to IT systems and the consequent customer may arise for a variety of reasons poor financial returns that would emanate from A failure of any one of these components could including from direct competitive action or these issues if not controlled properly.
adversely impact the Groups reputation and through competitors taking advantage of a demand for the Groups range of products weakening customer relationship, which may Controls and Actions and services.
be due to a contractual dispute, a business The Board reviews and challenges each potential consolidation or a change in Group strategy.
acquisition prior to approval and frequently Controls and Actions engages consultants to provide expert analysis Quality assurance standards are monitored, Controls and Actions of the key issues.
measured and regulated within the Group under Senior management maintains close the authority of a Quality Assurance Director, relationships with key customers and seeks to The success of each acquisition or major capital who reports directly to the Chief Executive.
maintain the highest level of service to preserve investment programme is assessed through a Huntings reputation for quality.
post-acquisition investment appraisal process Movement in Year that provides a learning platform for future Internal procedures continue to be enhanced to The Board is committed to strengthening business combinations.
mitigate the risk of a product failure materially product quality in order to stay ahead of impacting the Group.
Regional Training Centres are increasing competition.
A new product testing The Board and senior management follow now established in Houston and Singapore, where facility, new lean manufacturing processes and a rigorous process of approving, managing product quality training is a key agenda item.
increased spend on research and development and monitoring capital investments along are all expected to raise the Groups competitive with planning for contingencies.
Capital position and reputation for supplying superior investment above discretionary limits requires products and services.
Board approval prior to commitment.
The Group has a wide customer base that Movement in Year includes many of the major oil and gas During 2014 the Board remained focused service providers.
on organic expansion and consequently the Groups exposure to the risks associated with Movement in Year capital investment were unchanged during The Board believes that the risks associated the year.
with competitor action and the loss of key customers in general increased during 2014 and going into 2015 particularly with the deteriorating market environment.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 38 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED RISKS COMMON TO INTERNATIONAL MANUFACTURING BUSINESSES ECONOMIC AND KEY EXECUTIVES GEOPOLITICS The economic and political environments in The Group is highly reliant on the continued which the Group operates have the potential to service of its key executives and senior impact demand for energy or disrupt business management, who possess commercial, activity and therefore may affect output of the engineering, technical and financial skills Groups products and services.
that are critical to the success of the Group.
The Groups principal presence remains located Controls and Actions in the stable regions of North America and the Remuneration packages are regularly reviewed UK.
However the growing presence in the Asia to ensure that key executives are remunerated Pacific region has proportionately increased the in line with market rates.
External consultants Groups exposure to the emerging markets in are engaged to provide guidance on best practice.
The Group has also commenced its expansion into Sub-Sahara Senior management regularly review the Africa and as part of this process has policies and availability of the necessary skills within the procedures in place to manage and monitor Group and seeks to engage suitable staff the economic and geopolitical risk profile in where they feel there is vulnerability.
The Board regards succession planning as an The Group has limited exposure to the Eurozone important factor in ensuring the longer-term and Ukraine Russia.
Succession planning is an annual topic of discussion at Board meetings Controls and Actions and senior management is held responsible Management and the Board closely monitor for ensuring this is addressed throughout projected economic trends in order to match the organisation.
Movement in Year Areas exposed to high geopolitical risk are noted A number of changes have arisen at the senior by the Board and are also monitored closely.
management level with all vacated positions being filled by competent individuals who are Movement in Year anticipated to proactively contribute to the Notwithstanding the Groups strongest presence success of the Group.
remaining in North America, the risk of exposure to geopolitical uncertainty has increased during Due to the small turnover of key personnel, the year with the current global expansion the Board has assessed the risk of losing key programme under way.
executives as unchanged from last year.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 39 HEALTH, SAFETY AND EFFECTIVE THE ENVIRONMENT CONTROL OVER HS&E SUBSIDIARIES Due to the nature of the Groups activities and Group subsidiaries operate within a control the industry in which it operates, the Group is framework with a degree of autonomy vested subject to a relatively high number of HS&E risks in local management.
Autonomy incurs the risk and the laws and regulations issued by each of of local decisions being made outside the the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
parameters of the Boards strategies and policies, possible breaches of the Groups Code of The Groups exposure to risk therefore includes Conduct and a general ineffectiveness by local the potential for the occurrence of a reportable management to conduct business in a manner incident, the financial risk of a breach of HS&E that furthers the interests and profitability of regulations and the risk of unexpected the Group.
compliance expenditure whenever a law or regulation is renewed or enhanced.
Controls and Actions Each subsidiary is subject to regular assessment Controls and Actions that includes Board and management meetings, The Board targets to achieve a record of nil regular reporting and frequent contact.
incidents and further aims for full compliance Compliance is further checked by internal audit.
with the laws and regulations in each jurisdiction The Group is also subject to external audit.
in which the Group operates.
A conference of senior management is held Every Group facility is overseen by a health and annually in which key business operations are safety officer with the responsibility for ensuring discussed and challenged.
compliance with current and newly issued HS&E standards.
Senior managers at the Groups subsidiaries remain aware of their responsibilities to The Board receives a Group HS&E compliance corporate governance and the Groups report at every Board meeting.
Movement in Year Movement in Year The Group incurs a small number of incidents No concerns were raised by the Board during each year, which remain well below the industry the year.
average and the number recorded during 2014 is broadly consistent to the Groups record in prior years.
The risks associated with HS&E have therefore not materially changed.
Details of the Groups HS&E record are disclosed on pages 42 and 43.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts
