Principal risks and uncertainties The Group places great importance on the identification and effective management of risks.
Our approach to risk management helps us to deliver our objectives and maximize the returns of the Group.
The following table describes the risks that the Board considers to have a potential material impact on the Group.
They are specific to the nature of our business notwithstanding that there are other risks that may occur and may impact the achievement of the Groups objectives.
The Board discussions on risk have focused on these risks and the actions being taken to manage them.
Risk or uncertainty and potential impact How we manage it COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT The business operates in a highly competitive market and needs to Drive and deliver new product developments and be able to respond rapidly to competitive threats.
enhancements which differentiate us competitively Monitoring and understanding our competitors Focus on being responsive to customers and improving the quality and delivery of our products Seek out new market opportunities INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Patent-related threats from third parties seeking to use patents as Build a portfolio of strategically important patents an alternative way of generating revenue.
Build strong relationships with external counsel to enable us to act quickly and defend our position Work closely with customers to respond quickly to potential threats CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION The business currently has a large portion of revenue related Building a portfolio of technology that appeals to a broad to specific customers and technologies.
Consolidation within range of customers the industry could drive this further and increase Imaginations Developing relationships with a wider number of customers dependence on a limited number of customers.
spread across different sectors and jurisdictions Monitor trends and changes in the semiconductor industry Develop business models that reflect the changing industry landscape CHANGE IN CUSTOMER DYNAMICS A change in the business environment or business models Establish trusted relationships with customers to ensure we employed by our customers could have a detrimental impact on our fully understand their strategic direction financial performance.
Adapt a flexible approach to different business models SUPPORTING BUSINESS GROWTH With the significant growth expected in the business there is a Continue to develop procedures and processes to support need to effectively scale the infrastructure, people and processes to the growing business capitalize on the opportunities.
Add resources in key areas Long term planning undertaken across the business to identify requirements 30 Risk or uncertainty and potential impact How we manage it COMPLETION AND INTEGRATION OF ACQUISITIONS In the fast developing technology market, acquisitions can be Project team manages all elements of acquisitions beneficial to develop the technology portfolio and enhance the Comprehensive Board review of potential targets before, business.
Failure to effectively integrate the acquisition and deliver during and after acquisition the benefits expected is a risk.
Thorough due diligence conducted prior to acquisition with particular attention given to how the company will be integrated Comprehensive integration plan pursued until all elements have been completed PRODUCTS MEETING CUSTOMER REQUIREMENTS Unable to deliver new products on time or achieve performance Close project management, including using project that does not meet market requirements in terms of specification, management systems quality or timeliness could result in loss of market share with a Checks throughout the project to ensure the expected corresponding impact on financial performance.
outcomes including specification and timing will be achieved Thorough roadmap planning process including discussion with key customers for each business unit Additional R&D resources allocated to key projects MACRO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS Changes in global economic conditions can have a significant Broad customer, engineering and products base to impact on our partners and customers and therefore may affect the balance risk financial performance of the business.
Flexible in responding to changing demands Effective forecasting of business performance Foreign exchange hedging strategy implemented Strategic report Directors report Financial report 31 Corporate and social responsibility report of the completed building.
The main methods by which a fully Corporate and social responsibility sustainable building with the aspired BREEAM rating of Excellent The Group recognizes that it has responsibilities to all will be achieved are: stakeholders, including the interests of employees and their families, the need to foster the Groups business relationships Introducing the sustainable aspects of the construction with partners, customers, suppliers and others: and the process at an early stage of the design and collaborating as a impact of the Groups operations on the local communities and team to achieve the sustainability goals: surrounding environment where it operates.
Our employees are Considered and intelligent design of fenestration.
The main highly regarded and valued, and their employment and rights are emphasis in the design and specification of the glazing and respected.
The Group is committed to the important principle of solar shading devices will be to reduce operational energy equal opportunity which is reflected in the Groups recruitment, usage in terms of heat loss and solar gain whilst maximizing graduate recruitment, disciplinary and grievance policies.
The levels of daylight within the office space, thus reducing Group is dedicated to supplying products of the highest quality to reliance on artificial lighting: meet its customers requirements in a manner that is consistent The provision of facilities such as secure bicycle storage with high environmental and ethical standards.
The Group makes and changing facilities to encourage staff to use sustainable a contribution to local charities and communities in areas where it modes of transport: operates its business.
Water saving technologies such as flow restrictors, low flow rate water fittings, etc.
will be applied to the building to Environmental impact and energy use minimize portable water demand and to achieve further CO 2 As a Group we feel our environmental impact on the whole is emissions reductions while saving a precious natural resource: low, with our main business being the development of intellectual Selection of construction materials and technologies that property which helps customers develop the most power efficient minimize site wastage, using locally sourced materials where products possible.
Our emissions come mainly from the use of possible: electricity in our offices and business travel.
In the UK we currently Responsibly sourcing materials used in structural and nonhave eight offices, four at Group headquarters in Kings Langley, structural elements.
Third-party certification will be required to one data centre and three offices at other locations in the UK.
We show that the timber has come from a sustainability managed also have a number of overseas sites.
source, for example, Forest Stewardship Council FSC : The Group continues to review the supplies of its electricity and Using the Green Guide to Specification to ensure that where tariffs and the number of sites with a green renewable energy possible materials have A rating: tariff continues to increase with four moving in the financial year.
Further buildings will move over to this tariff as current contracts Recycling construction waste using off-site sorting including a expire.
The intention is that all electricity used is from renewable dedicated space for recyclable materials on site: tariffs by the end of 2015.
The provision of dedicated recyclable waste storage facilities: and Redevelopment of site and Incorporating SUDS Sustainable Urban Drainage such environmental impact as permeable paving on the surface car parks and water The Group began redeveloping its headquarters site in Kings attenuation to control surface water run-off and minimize Langley in 2011.
Two of the three buildings are now complete.
Construction of the third building will begin in FY15.
All of the As part of the redevelopment of the headquarters the Company buildings are designed along the principles of sustainable design focused on the core functions required of a high quality office and will exceed the building regulations requirements for buildings development whilst being conscious of its environmental of this nature: the first build has achieved a BREEAM rating of responsibilities, in this vein we are promoting the ecology of the Excellent and the intention is that the remaining new buildings area by introducing a native boundary structure and new habitats will too.
within the canal race area.
Where applicable, native tree shrub In addition to reducing each buildings energy consumption a and herbaceous plants have been introduced to encourage sustainable approach has been adopted when handling other indigenous species in the more decorative areas of the scheme.
issues which will contribute towards a truly sustainable building.
Such issues include the selection of materials: construction technologies: and the operation, management and maintenance 32 The Pure division through their own functions ensures compliance New data centre with the following: To meet the Groups considerable IT requirements, a dedicated The EC Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic data centre was constructed and became operational in February Equipment WEEE this is aimed at minimizing the impact 2014.
It contains two highly efficient data halls, the first of which is of electrical and electronic goods on the environment: in current use and the second hall will come online in the future to meet business needs as the Group grows.
REPIC this is to meet obligations as a producer of WEEE: and The data halls are supported by a highly efficient electrical distribution system that utilizes state of the art static UPS systems The EC Directive on Batteries and Accumulators and Waste that have multiple modes of operation to maximize energy Batteries and Accumulators 2006 66 EC through their efficiency.
A low energy cooling solution is also being adopted that membership of the compliance scheme eBatt.
provides both a water and air cooled solution that makes use of The Pure division use a compliance solutions company to free cooling when ambient conditions allow.
meet their obligations under the Packaging Waste Regulation obligations.
Pure division Our Pure division has spent considerable time looking into ways Recycling to reduce their environmental impact and it remains committed to We encourage our employees to recycle their day to day waste.
ethical and environmentally sustainable design and manufacture We do this by ensuring there are recycling bins for cardboard as encapsulated within EcoPlus www.
Pure and non-confidential materials and separate confidential bags in recognizes that its main environmental impact comes through the every office, all of which are recycled.
There are also recycle bins products themselves in manufacture, transport and predominantly in each kitchen area.
Energy saving measures are also in place in use by consumers, and so it continues to reduce the power for recycling components, such as printed circuit boards, toner consumption of its products, with a programme in place to cartridges, surplus packaging and paper.
exceed the requirements of the tightened Energy-Using Products Imagination House, the headquarters at Kings Langley has an EuP Directive which came into force in January 2013. on-site restaurant and we work to ensure that as much waste as The Pure division also ensures that through its own due diligence possible is recycled.
All cardboard, wooden boxes, drink cans and programme that all third-party factories comply with the following plastic bottles are currently recycled.
The plan for the upcoming Health, Environmental and Ethical requirements: year is to have separate bins in the restaurant kitchen for each type of waste allowing the composting of food waste and the EC Regulation on chemicals and their safe use EC recycling of tins and glasses.
1907 2006, known as Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical substances REACH : Greenhouse gas emissions Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical Equipment Imagination is required to report the quantity of greenhouse Regulations 2005 RoHS : gas GHG emissions from activities from which the Group is Batteries & Accumulators directives: responsible, in accordance with the GHG emissions reporting SEDEX or SA800 Pure is committed to the ethical treatment requirements of The Companies Act 2006 Strategic and of its staff and contractors, and to that end all third-party Directors Reports Regulations 2013 for GHG emissions.
factories are audited via the SEDEX or SA8000 programmes We have adopted a financial control approach to defining our to ensure compliance with local and national laws, particularly organizational boundary and therefore the data used reflects our on: working hours and conditions, health and safety, rates material global operations.
of pay, terms of employment and minimum age of employment: and The methodology used to compile this data is in accordance with the requirements of the following standards: DEFRAs European Union Timber Regulations EUTR ensures timber Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Including mandatory used on products comes from legally sourced forests and has greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance June 2013. full tractability and evidence throughout the supply chain back to the original forests.
Our reporting period for GHG emissions is in line with our financial reporting year to 30 April 2014.
This marks our baseline year and will be used for comparative purposes in the future.
Strategic report Directors report Financial report 33 Our material GHG emissions from our business activities in FY14 Furthermore, employee ownership is encouraged via the Groups amounts to 6,819 tonnes of CO e, consisting of: global share schemes.
The Group runs an employee share plan 2 for which all employees globally receive share awards on a biCarbon emissions Tonnes of CO e 2 annual basis.
There is no qualifying period and no performance conditions on share awards below the Executive Management Scope 1: Board EMB and Board.
CO e from the Combustion of fuel and the 304 2 A Save As You Earn SAYE scheme has been operating in the UK operation of any facilities since 2001 and employees are given the opportunity to participate Scope 2: annually.
The SAYE scheme has made a number of employees shareholders in the Company by actively promoting ISAs.
The CO e from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam 2 Group believe that shares are a key tool to motivate and retain or cooling by the Company for its own use 6,515 employees.
Total 6,819 Graduate recruitment and internship programme Our Group chosen intensity measurement is square foot Emissions intensity The Group runs a graduate recruitment and internship programme with universities and colleges throughout the UK having developed Scope 1: strong relationships with a number of universities including the Tonnes of CO e per Sq.
ft. 0.00 2 University of Southampton, Imperial College of London, the University of Bristol and the University of Manchester.
As a direct Scope 2: result of our programme we have around 40 undergraduates Tonnes of CO e per Sq.
ft. 0.02 2 on internship each year, most of whom convert into permanent graduate hires.
Where data was incomplete GHG emissions were extrapolated from the available information.
We will work to improve overall Academic outreach and sponsorship data quality in FY15.
We have linked up with universities which reflect our technical skillset and are supporting and developing these into centres The Groups employees of excellence for students in line with our intellectual property Across the Group there is considerable value placed on the activities around the Group.
We currently sponsor five PhDs at involvement of employees in the decision making process.
To key universities in areas of technical relevance to the Groups this end regular departmental meetings are held to discuss activities.
In 2013 and 2014 we began sponsoring labs and strategy and future developments and any significant outputs are providing development kits to universities for teaching purposes.
then communicated to senior management.
This helps the flow The Group offers a wide range of other incentives to young of ideas through the Group and allows employees to see their people varying from the sponsorship of electronic courses at contributions are valued.
local schools: giving scholarship awards to students at University to promote opportunities at the Group and financial awards to Employee engagement with the whole Group is highly prioritized exceptional successful interns with the intention that the students and there are a number of communication channels in place to come to work for the Group in the future.
The Group invites help employees develop their knowledge of the business.
These around 40 young people annually for structured work experience channels include regular presentations by the CEO and CFO to learn more about and experience some of the careers available to staff covering the Groups performance, strategy, vision and in our sector.
We regularly attend and sponsor events focused on operational developments.
promoting Science and Engineering with our university partners.
There is a quarterly Group magazine Imagineer which is used The Group has committed to donating 25,000 per year for the to report events and activities to all employees worldwide next 3 years to sponsor a mathematics physics Chair as a part of covering the opening of new offices around the globe, different the Governments Your Life Campaign to improve the quality of departments explaining their specific functions, introducing new teaching of numerate subjects in our schools in the UK.
starters to the Group, recreation activity of employees, the arrival of children of employees and retirement tributes to employees.
34 Diversity Healthier staff restaurants The Group acknowledges the importance and contribution of The new headquarters provides superior catering facilities and its employees and as a global business, values people from employees have been overwhelmingly positive with people all cultures, nationalities, religion and ethnicities irrespective enthusiastic about the quality, freshness and variety of produce.
of characteristics such as age, gender, disability or sexual The catering firm operating the restaurant also ensures they use orientation.
The Group is committed to employment policies, only sustainable fish and farm assured meats as standard which which follow best practice, based on equal opportunities for all is in line with the Groups principles.
In the past year we have employees.
The Group has a strong demand for highly qualified improved the cuisine and every month we regularly have featured staff and disability is not seen to be an inhibitor to employment days celebrating food from various countries around the world or career development.
The Group considers diversity as an and commemorating special dates during the calendar year.
important issue across the Group, not just at Board level.
Local community and environmental Board of directors Senior managers Employees sustainability Male 8 88 1,354 As part of its commitment to the community and environment the Group is engaging with a charity in the local community to help Female 0 7 213 the Group develop multiple areas of owned green amenity space 8 95 1,567 into well maintained landscaped areas.
Charitable work in the community The Group gives charitable donations both locally and nationally.
Healthy living Every year employees are consulted to ensure that the donations The Group promotes healthy living to its employees.
This year given by the Group represent all the interests and locations where we held a Healthy Living week at the headquarters in Kings employees are based.
Employees get the opportunity to vote Langley to raise awareness on nutrition, exercise, mental health on which charities receive the money raised.
If employees raise and changing habits.
The Group also provides a range of healthy money for a charity on the Group selected charity list the Group living benefits to its employees in their respective locations and will double the amount of money raised by the employee.
This the Healthy Living week and programme will be extended more year the Group has given donations to the nominated charities, globally across the Group in the coming year, with a focus on and also recycled old PCs in return for donations towards empowering employees to access programmes and information these charities.
available to them to lead a healthy lifestyle.
In the UK the Group actively encourages recreation to assist Sports and Social club employees to stay fit and healthy by providing 50% of the annual Our Sports and Social club was set up in 2000 with the aim fee for fitness centres and 20% of the UK staff are members of bringing together employees to participate in a variety of of fitness clubs sponsored by the Company.
For a nominal 2 monthly contribution employees supports the Governments Ride2Work schemewhich was can gain membership which provides a 50% discount on all launched in 2010 where the Company works in partnership events supported by the club.
We continue to see considerable with a national cycle retailer to promote sustainable transport growth with membership rising to 85% of UK employees.
In the and health of employees.
The schemeallows the Company financial year there has been a wide range of events, such as tooffer bicycle and relatedsafety equipment to employeesto visits to theatre shows, opera and Ascot family day.
There were beusedtocommute towork which provide considerable tax also cross-country running events, marathons, mountain biking, savings for the employee as well as health benefits.
Currently 20% combat boxing and rock climbing activities to name but a few.
of UK employees participate in the Ride2Work scheme.
Strategic report Directors report Financial report 35
