PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk Management Overview In the following section we highlight the principal risks we face and identify the mitigations that we have in place to manage the impact of these risks upon the business.
Not all of these factors are within our direct control, and the list cannot be considered to be exhaustive, as other risks and uncertainties may emerge in a changing business environment.
As is common with most large organisations the Group is subject to general commercial risks: for example, cyber-security breaches, failure of our IT infrastructure, the cost of our raw materials, and the impact of competition.
Risk Reduction in the size of the legitimate tobacco market What affects us What we do Changes in regulation Regulatory restrictions exist in many of our markets which impact our The Groups rational regulator strategy is designed to engage with consumers by influencing availability, demand and freedom to use key internal and external stakeholders to ensure that proposed our products.
The introduction of excessive and disproportionate regulatory change is proportionate and does not lead to excessive regulation, both present and future, could have an adverse effect regulation.
This engagement includes: on consumer choice, potentially impacting the demand for our consulting with external experts to provide advice and guidance: products, as well as the cost of continuing to comply with such engagement, where possible, with regulators: increasing regulation.
providing industry specific information to ensure that regulators have a more balanced fact base: highlighting the unintended consequences of proposed regulatory change: and making legal challenges against excessive regulation.
We prioritise the Groups expertise and resources according to the relevant key regulatory issues.
Cross-market liaison is promoted within the Group to ensure best practice and opportunities from markets already impacted are identified, understood, and applied.
Increases in excise duty Governments across the world perceive the use of tobacco excise We engage with local tax and customs authorities as well as rates to be a means of raising additional public funding and or the politicians legislators and media where appropriate to provide satisfying of public private tobacco control agendas.
informed input to the unintended consequences of excise increases.
The widening price differential between tobacco products in neighbouring countries increases both the availability and attractiveness to the consumer of purchasing non-domestic duty paid product.
We take commercial steps to mitigate the impact of this issue through the monitoring and compilation of ongoing analysis to ensure strategic price and product offerings exist in the context of the excise duty structures in each market.
Through our portfolio of products we are able to meet consumer preferences across different price points.
Illicit trade The consequence of excise and regulatory regimes is a widening gap We seek to work with governments and law enforcement agencies between price of legitimate and illegitimate product.
As a result the around the world on anti-illicit trade initiatives, and work alongside legitimate tobacco industry continues to be subject to the significant the European Commissions Anti-Fraud Office OLAF and law impact and increasing threat of illicit trade.
The sale of counterfeit enforcement agencies both in the EU and elsewhere.
product and smuggled illicit whites in our markets act as a direct In order to achieve this we employ specialist teams to provide competitor to legitimate domestic duty paid, travel retail and duty free effective support to the business and governments law enforcement products, eroding our volumes and market shares.
agencies, performing market analysis and intelligence to provide appropriate and targeted solutions to the combating of illicit trade.
We maintain strong business conduct standards and controls, both for our business and our first-line customers in order to prevent our products being diverted.
Macro-economic conditions A material decline in the economic conditions affecting consumers, We monitor and analyse consumption patterns and economic notably an impact upon disposable income, may change their indicators in order to ensure that our current and future portfolio consumption patterns, including an increased propensity to provides the consumer with a range of products across different purchase illicit products.
This analysis is a key input to our product development and pricing strategies.
24 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Risk Marketplace What affects us What we do Marketplace The Group has a significant presence in mature European markets We continuously monitor our exposure and review our portfolio and thus any material decline in the economic circumstances of, and our existing processes and policies to minimise our economic and or our performance in, our key European markets may affect exposure and to preserve our ability to operate in a range of potential our future profit development and have an adverse impact on the conditions that may exist should one or more of these future Groups revenue or profits.
Should concerns regarding the future of the euro, or the exit of one Our international footprint and comprehensive portfolio provides an or more Eurozone countries re-emerge, consumer spending patterns increasingly balanced exposure to both EU and non-EU markets, could be impacted.
Such an event could also cause disruption to the with the core of our market concentration being in countries with business as a whole, including impact upon financing arrangements a lower risk of political instability and civil unrest.
both Group and Local, and could also have a short-term impact The alignment of our market management structures to key strategic upon our Manufacturing and Supply Chain operations.
drivers enables a more consistent approach to the evaluation of risks As with all businesses our route to market could be affected by and opportunities.
political instability, civil unrest, and sanctions, and could also Our global manufacturing and supply chain operations have crisis have a detrimental effect on our Manufacturing and Supply management and contingency plans in place which are regularly Chain operations.
reviewed in line with the risks to their ongoing requirements.
Financing What affects us What we do Funding and liquidity management We have a significant level of committed debt, financed in the debt Our Group Treasury Committee GTC oversees the operation of capital markets and bank loan markets.
We expect any future Group Treasury in accordance with the terms of reference set out required refinancing of this debt upon maturity to be obtained from by the Board.
these markets and for us to be able to rely on funds being available The GTC sets out a framework for the treasury function to operate from our bank counterparties when requested to be drawn.
The framework covers, amongst other things, financing, Approximately half of the Groups debt is currently at fixed levels liquidity and counterparty risk and is fully reviewed periodically.
of interest, and therefore the Group is exposed to movements in The GTC receives regular reporting on all matters covered by interest rates which could result in higher funding costs and cash the framework.
Cash flows, financing requirements and key rating agency metrics A fall in certain of our credit ratings could raise our cost of funding are regularly forecast and updated in line with business performance.
and affect our ability to raise debt with the breadth of funders we This information is considered alongside conditions in debt capital currently enjoy.
and bank loan markets to ensure we are well placed to meet the future financing needs of the Group, and optimise its cost and availability.
Legal and regulatory compliance What affects us What we do Failure to comply with legislation Failure to comply with local and international laws including We monitor closely developments in international sanctions and sanctions may result in investigations.
This may cause damage actively seek external advice to ensure that we remain compliant to our reputation and has the potential for financial and criminal with them.
penalties for both the Group and individuals.
The Groups policies and standards, including our Code of Conduct, mandate that all employees must comply with legislation relevant to a UK listed company and in the countries in which we operate.
E-learning courses are provided to management and relevant employees to ensure understanding of key regulatory and compliance requirements.
Additionally, senior management certify the compliance of their area of the business with the Code of Conduct as part of an annual certification process.
Exceptions are reported and mitigating actions taken.
Steering groups exist for key areas of legal compliance to provide expert advice in the development of policy, process, training and monitoring of compliance.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 25 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued What affects us What we do Tobacco litigation Tobacco litigation claims are pending against the Group in a number To date, no tobacco litigation claim brought against the Group has of countries.
More claims may be brought in the future, including been successful and or resulted in the recovery of damages.
claims for personal injury and the recovery of medical costs allegedly We employ internal and external lawyers specialising in the defence incurred in treating smokers.
If any claim were to be successful, it of product liability litigation to provide advice and guidance on might result in a significant liability for damages and might lead to defence strategies and to direct and manage litigation risk and further claims against us.
Regardless of the outcome, the costs monitor potential claims around the Group.
of defending such claims can be substantial and may not be fully recoverable.
Significant market positions Our significant market position in certain countries could result The Groups policies and standards, including our Code of Conduct, in investigations and adverse regulatory action by relevant mandate that all employees must comply with competition laws in competition authorities, including the potential for monetary the countries in which we operate.
We provide training and guidance to relevant employees detailing the obligations and requirements of competition laws.
We employ experienced internal and external lawyers specialising in competition laws to provide advice and guidance regarding interpretation and compliance with competition laws.
In the event of any investigation which may or may not result in actions being brought against us, we cooperate fully with the relevant authority making the investigation and will continue to do so.
Material strategic initiatives What affects us What we do In order to achieve our strategic objectives, the Group may be The Group operates a formal project sign-off approach, required to undertake material initiatives, including acquisitions and ensuring an appropriate and transparent review and selection change programmes.
of project proposals aligned to the Groups strategic and operational objectives.
The Group operates within a regulatory environment that can require the implementation of material initiatives to address To support the successful delivery of material initiatives within changing legal requirements.
the organisation the Group has developed and implemented a standardised project management process that provides a robust framework to enable effective change management.
This approach is adopted across the Group and provides a consistent and disciplined approach to the management of material initiatives, supported by the employment of project managers across the Group to ensure the right skills are available to successfully deliver such initiatives.
The majority of the Groups material change programmes are coordinated under a single umbrella programme, ensuring alignment of deliverables, management of interdependencies, and limiting the impact of change upon our operational activities.
The Operating Executive receives regular reporting on the progress of key projects.
This provides a continuing assessment of deliverables in changing markets, and the evaluation of interdependencies across the business.
Benefits achieved on key projects are appropriately certified before being reported externally.
We also carry out post-implementation reviews to ensure appropriate feedback is captured to constantly improve our change management approach.
26 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
