OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS RISK MANAGEMENT In this section we outline the risks we face Risk Management The Board and Audit Committee across our business and our approach to The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups strategy and managing them.
In addition, the Board is accountable for reviewing the effectiveness of the systems and processes of risk management and internal control, with the Audit Committee assisting Our Approach in the discharge of this responsibility.
Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives and capitalise on The Audit Committee oversees the effectiveness of the Groups risk growth opportunities requires effective management of the risks management system and internal controls and is assisted by the we face.
Groups Corporate Assurance department which oversees the Our risk management system is designed to identify risks that could completion of the annual assessment of risk management and prevent the achievement of strategic objectives as early as possible, internal control.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on its and to ensure that appropriate and agreed mitigation is in place.
The activities and makes recommendations and escalates significant approach seeks to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to risks or issues to the Board as appropriate.
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not Ensuring that the Board has the right balance of skills and experience absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Where to develop our strategy and support its successful implementation, risks do crystallise, we respond immediately to reduce the impact of including support of, and insight into, the risk management that risk and to ensure that the causes and consequences have been approach, is the responsibility of the Nominations Committee.
This evaluated and any wider implications assessed.
committee provides the Board with the required support to identify Our risk management approach provides a framework which allows and recruit the necessary talent to achieve the Groups objectives.
for the identification and management of both Group risks and Achieving the Groups objectives in accordance with our Code of those risks specific to a location.
In a business with a global market Conduct and business principles is supported by the Remuneration footprint as diverse as ours it is imperative to ensure that resource Committee which aligns appropriate senior management objectives is directed at the most relevant risks and that our management is and remuneration packages.
sufficiently supported to achieve positive outcomes.
In order to assist the Board in its requirement to provide a fair A year end certification process is completed, under which and balanced view of business performance, and to assist with management confirms that risk mitigation controls have operated legal and regulatory compliance, oversight of the integrity of the effectively throughout the year and that entities have complied communication of the Groups financial disclosures is provided by with our policies, including the Code of Conduct and anti-bribery the Disclosure Committee.
This is chaired by the Company Secretary requirements, as well as fraud prevention processes.
As a separate and comprises senior management from across our business.
It exercise, all our senior managers are also required to certify that meets as required to consider major financial disclosures including there have been no related party transactions within their areas the Groups key periodic external reports, including the consolidated of control.
and parent company financial statements.
Our people have the opportunity to make confidential disclosures While risk management and the identification of existing and about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing via an independent emerging risks are the responsibility of all our people, the Board is external service Speaking Up, details of which have been translated supported in the assessment of key risks through work facilitated into 36 languages and can be found in the Investors section of by the Groups Corporate Assurance department.
ensures a consistent top-down method in how we identify, assess In accordance with the recommendations of the FRCs Guidance and prioritise risks, as well as assessing our existing measures to for Directors on Internal Control formerly known as the Turnbull manage and mitigate those risks.
guidance, the Groups systems of internal control are designed and The top-down approach that supports the Board is complemented operated to support the identification, evaluation and management by an annual bottom-up review by local management across of risks affecting the Group.
They facilitate the effective and efficient the organisation which assesses our principal areas of risk and operation of our business, provide assurance regarding the integrity uncertainty across each part of the business.
This assessment of our internal reporting and are designed to comply with relevant includes a review of both Group and local risks, along with an laws and regulations, across all areas of operations.
These systems assessment of the mitigating controls in place to manage the risks.
are subject to continuous review as circumstances change and new The separation of risks into Group and Local classifications enables risks emerge.
appropriate focus at both senior and local management level, and Our risk management approach continues to develop, ensuring we assists us in the identification of emerging risks.
The Group risks are continue to identify, manage and monitor the risks we face.
individually owned by a member of the Operating Executive, and ongoing development of the risk management approach continues to improve consistent management of these risks across our global footprint.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 21 RISK MANAGEMENT continued The Operating Executive OPEX Governance Framework The OPEX is ultimately responsible for the effective operational The Groups Corporate Assurance department oversees the management and mitigation of the Groups key risks.
The successful Groups risk management process and includes our Group Internal and effective implementation of Group strategies into our operational Audit team.
activities is the responsibility of the Operating Executive and its Risk management and assurance activities are key elements of our functional and divisional management teams.
These management overall governance framework which is based upon a three lines of teams are responsible for ensuring that the Groups strategic goals defence model.
are achieved in line with Group policies and standards, and that we conduct business in compliance with our Code of Conduct.
We operate an integrated approach, aligned to ensure that our This tone from the top extends to responsibility for the monitoring of operational management has the tools, knowledge, and support operational and financial performance, the assessment and control in order to manage risks as part of its business as usual of financial, business and operational risks and the maintenance business processes.
and ongoing development of a robust control framework and Key elements of our framework: environment in their areas of responsibility.
our Company Secretary is responsible for maintaining and Operational Management developing the Groups framework of governance, including Across the business, operational management is responsible for our Code of Conduct, Group policies and Speaking Up the implementation and monitoring of the Groups processes and whistleblowing process: systems of control.
This includes ensuring that our people have appropriate training and knowledge to perform their roles in operational management is provided with training and guidance accordance with the Groups policies and standards and defined that enables it to implement effective controls and to manage their lines of accountability and delegation of authority.
business risks: The Groups functional and divisional management structures centres of excellence and Group committees exist in order to enable a continuing process for the identification, evaluation and provide expert technical advice and guidance in the development management of significant risks to the achievement of business of policy and control relating to our legal and regulatory objectives and support the controls in place.
These centres of excellence provide assurance activities that ensure effective risk management is implemented through our business processes: and Oversight In addition to the oversight provided by our management structures our Director of Corporate Assurance provides assurance that the the Group also benefits from the work carried out by subject matter controls to mitigate risks to an acceptable level are operating as experts it employs to manage specific technical or legal and they should, through both the risk management processes and regulatory risks.
These teams form a key part of our second line internal audit work.
of defence and are referred to as part of our other assurance This includes co-ordination of the work of other assurance providers provider network.
within the Group who are technical experts in their field of risk These departments design and implement appropriate control management such as OHSE and product quality.
structures and monitoring in order to manage the relevant risks.
They also act as centres of excellence, providing advice and assistance to the business to help facilitate local solutions where necessary.
These other assurance providers liaise with our Director of Corporate Assurance to promote a consistent approach and knowledge sharing within the Groups developing Total Assurance model.
Our Group Finance department is responsible for the financial policies and standards adopted within the Group.
It also manages our financial reporting processes to ensure the timely and accurate provision of information, which enables the Board to discharge its responsibilities, including the production of our half yearly and annual accounts.
Group Finance is supported by a network of finance managers throughout the Group who have the responsibility and accountability to provide information in keeping with our policies, procedures and internal best practices as documented in our Group Finance Manual.
22 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Regulator External Audit ITG Governance Framework Board Operating Executive st nd rd 1 line of defence 2 line of defence 3 line of defence Policies, Financial control procedures, training and standards Group committees Risk Management Internal Audit Quality Management control Centres of excellence Process and control Embed and monitor effective risk management, implementation and legal compliance, and related assurance processes development Code of Conduct defines the culture of the organisation and sets the standards of business practice within which our people perform their roles Assurance The Internal Audit department provides independent assessment on the robustness and effectiveness of the systems and processes of risk management and control across the Group.
It achieves this through the completion of reviews which are approved by, and reported to, the Audit Committee.
This approach is aligned to the three lines of defence model, adopted as an effective structure for risk management.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 23
