STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk Management PROTECTING OUR BUSINESS There is an appropriate mechanism in Market iPOM Committees a subRisk Management place to identify the most significant risks The Board has overall responsibility for committee of the market executive the Group faces: risk management and considers the exist in each of the Groups markets and key risks facing the Group on a rolling have a similar seniority of membership.
The correct management focus is on key 12-month basis, with a formal review risks and actions to mitigate or respond Each Market iPOM Committee operates of the most significant risks at least to identified and emerging risks: through standard terms of reference, annually or more frequently if required.
aligned with the Group to ensure a A compliance programme is in place Risks are categorised into: consistent approach to identifying and in all markets and head offices which managing systemic and dynamic risks.
systemic risks known risks which are meets or exceeds external benchmarks, largely unchanging or which apply and is appropriate in terms of the legal Internal controls over the financial Group-wide and are managed through requirements, content, sector, cost and reporting framework are designed to standard policies and procedures: and resource requirement: provide reasonable assurance regarding dynamic risks forward looking risks Appropriate defences are in place to the reliability of financial reporting which can be specific to a market, mitigate exposure to, or effect a response as well as the preparation of the region or function, which change to, any risk that may crystallise: and financial statements in accordance in nature constantly and which are The Groups fraud and whistleblowing with International Financial Reporting therefore managed through bespoke programme is appropriately managed Standards IFRS.
The Internal Audit team mitigation or response plans.
to reduce the risk of fraud, or respond and Management regularly assess the quickly and decisively in the event the Inchcape Peace of Mind iPOM is the effectiveness of internal controls over Group is victim to fraud.
Group-wide risk management programme financial reporting as well as the developed to drive risk management The Group iPOM Committee monitors preparation of financial statements and encourage risk-aware behaviours and manages the Groups Principal Risk based on the framework contained in across the Group.
The iPOM framework Register using an online risk management the Turnbull guidance.
There have been is constructed with the Companys values and reporting solution, to summarise the at its heart to ensure we drive the right no significant changes and the Board Groups risk exposure and associated behaviours across the business, embedding has concluded that the Groups internal mitigation or response plan based on compliance and the principles of risk system of controls over financial reporting risks identified at Group level and at management in everything that we market or regional level.
was effective during the year.
In this way, the Group uses iPOM to define and emphasise the right way Risk management process to do business.
The Board The central principle of iPOM is to ensure Responsibility for identifying significant risks, determining the Groups risk appetite that, whilst there is senior ownership from a and oversight of the principal risks to the Groups strategic objectives governance standpoint, risk management is recognised as something within each and Audit Committee every employees scope of responsibility.
The Delegated responsibility from the Board for risk management, Internal Controls, iPOM framework encourages and enables compliance and whistleblowing every employee to make decisions that balance performance with conformance, ensuring that we do business in the right Internal Audit way, and protect the value we create, our Responsibility for reviewing financial and operational controls, monitoring risk capture and mitigating actions, reporting to the Audit Committee reputation and that of our brand partners.
Group iPOM Committee Responsibility for the day-to-day Group iPOM Committee Key day-to-day risk oversight is managed through the Group iPOM Committee which is chaired management of risk oversight lies with the by the Group Chief Executive.
Its remit ensures that: focus is on key risks and actions to mitigate Group iPOM Committee, a sub-committee identified risks: compliance programmes exceed external benchmarks: appropriate defences of the Executive Committee.
The Committee are in place to mitigate risks: whistleblowing policy is managed to reduce risk of fraud is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and its constituent members are the Group Finance Director, Group HR Director, Group Market iPOM Committees General Counsel, Group Audit Director and Sub-committees of the Executive Committee in each market report into the Group iPOM Group Head of Corporate Assurance.
Committee to ensure that risk management oversight remains at the highest level in each market.
Meetings are co-ordinated to ensure that appropriate reviews are performed in line with The Group iPOM Committee meets a the Group iPOM Committee, Audit Committee and Board meetings minimum of six times a year to manage oversight of systemic and dynamic risk at Group level and throughout the markets.
ENABLERS It has a broad remit which ensures that: Functional Assurance Providers Corporate Assurance Functional teams are a key source of risk Lead continuous improvement in our risk management effort management practices www.
com 35 Principal Risks EFFECTIVE CONTROL FRAMEWORK Strategy including customer and consumer Description of risk Impact Mitigation Failure to deliver on our five We do not achieve our revenue, The Group continues to invest in its Inchcape Advantage and key areas of strategic focus: profit and margin targets.
There Customer 1st programmes to ensure that we win new customers Growing market share, Growing may be an impact on our and retain existing ones.
aftersales, Improving margin, relationships with the brand The Group is investing in new ways of reaching its customers Controlling working capital and partners whom we represent.
including through the use of the internet and social media.
The Group has enhanced its online offering through codified Digital Standards.
Obtaining favourable credit terms and making improvements in supply chain management.
Group-wide focus on working capital particularly aged stock reduction.
Thorough reviews of all proposed capital expenditure to ensure Group investment hurdles are met.
Brand partners, key relationships and reputation Description of risk Impact Mitigation Maintenance of product reputation Negative impact on sales revenue, Maintenance of up to date customer data to ensure swift in light of product recalls.
communication and response to affected customers.
Complaints monitoring to anticipate recalls.
Continuous product quality marketing to maintain reputation.
Inability to sustain current Impact on our ability to retain Constant focus on performance and continuous improvement, high-quality relationships existing businesses on contract effective communication and ensuring that our objectives are closely.
renewal and to take on new linked to those of our brand partners opportunities for growth.
Constant focus on improving governance practices and the right way of doing business to enhance and maintain our market leading reputation.
Significant failure in the supply Negative impact on revenue Continuous review of supply chain.
chain impacting our brand and reputation.
Working with brand partners to increase the resilience of the partners and affecting the supply chain.
Review and refresh of crisis management and business continuity plans.
Systems and technology Description of risk Impact Mitigation Security of confidential data, Impact on customer relationship Recognised industry standard security policies in place for all systems particularly customer and and erosion of reputation.
Secure data centres including relevant certifications for third party data centres.
Enhancements to IT internal audit function.
Maintenance of control Loss of revenue profit through A standardised and enhanced minimum controls framework including environment following new inefficiencies and potential fraud.
automated controls in new systems and supporting manual controls systems implementation.
has been implemented with further improvements planned.
A rigorous audit plan in place to ensure full compliance and regular follow up on mitigation plans via the risk management iPOM network.
Detailed post implementation review PIR following all new implementations.
36 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS People, including EH&S Description of risk Impact Mitigation Failure to attract, develop Unable to deliver business plans.
Global annual performance review process.
Employees who lack motivation Talent review and planning process.
Annual employee engagement survey and action planning.
Succession plans in place for key positions.
Failure to comply Injury to customers employees.
Local EH&S co-ordinators in place in all markets.
Group and Regional EH&S steering committees in place with defined reporting lines to iPOM Committees.
Economic, political and environmental Description of risk Impact Mitigation European economic instability Volume and margin are adversely Maintain focus on margin accretive initiatives across the region.
impacting local currencies impacted across our European Maintain close relationships with the dealer network with regular and trading environments.
markets and our wider reviews of their financial strength.
third party dealer networks Tight focus and management of exposures from sanctions performance deteriorates.
Legal and regulatory Description of risk Impact Mitigation Litigation and regulatory risk in Litigation or breaching the The Group has a process to ensure that it receives timely information an environment of ever increasing laws or regulations of the about forthcoming changes in legislation and that it has robust regulatory scrutiny.
countries in which we operate procedures in place to minimise any risk of detriment or non-compliance.
could have a financial and or Policies and procedures in place, emphasise and enable compliance reputational impact.
The Group has a risk management programme iPOM in place aimed at preventing issues from arising where possible and responding to those which do crystallise.
Tax, pensions and insurance Description of risk Impact Mitigation Tax increase due to Governments Increased tax liability.
Ensure adequate tax compliance readiness carried out locally.
drive for higher tax revenue.
Maintain accurate and robust tax records.
Finance and treasury Description of risk Impact Mitigation Availability of credit for customers Customers unable to finance Maintain relationships with key banks at both a Group and market level.
Close monitoring of credit lines offered to customers and movements Dealer networks inability to in floor plan financing.
secure funding impacting Leverage Group relationship with brand partners finance companies.
Deposits concentrated with counterparties and relationship banks approved in advance by Group Treasury.
Cash deposits held locally in line with Group policy.
Continuous review of ratings of major banking partners to ensure they maintain investment grade status.
Currency risk Transactional foreign A significant proportion of Group trading is denominated in exchange exposures.
Where possible, foreign exchange exposures are matched internally before hedging externally.
Where businesses are billed in a foreign currency, committed transactional exposures are hedged back to the functional currency.
