Strategic Report Operational detail Risk factors The Group has adopted a risk management strategy designed to identify, assess and manage the significant risks that it faces.
While the Group aims to identify and manage such risks, no risk management strategy can provide absolute assurance against loss.
Set out below are what the Group consider to be the principal risks that could cause the Groups business, financial position, and results of operations to differ materially from expected and historical results, and how the risks relate to the Groups strategic priorities.
Additional risks not listed here that the Group cannot presently identify or does not believe to be equally significant may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position.
The principal risk factors and uncertainties are not listed in order of significance.
Business operations and business continuity The Groups revenues are primarily derived from sales of Suboxone Film and any decrease in sales due to competition or supply or quality issues could significantly affect the results of operations and prospects.
Competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries is intense and high-performing talent in key positions is a business-critical requirement.
Failures or disruptions to our systems or the systems of third parties on whom we rely, due to any number of causes, particularly if prolonged, could result in a loss of key data and or affect our operations.
Our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code or cyber threats that could have a security impact.
All of these could be costly to remedy and we may be subject to litigation.
Specific risks we may face How we manage risk Possible impacts Link to Strategic Priority Dependence on single product line.
Continue to expand the market by Hinder patient Build resilience expanding access to treatment and access to of our franchise.
Approval and launch of generic or working with physicians and payors to treatment.
branded products that compete with Expand global improve patient outcomes.
Capitalize on international growth share.
Inability to deliver continuous supply Business opportunities and disciplined acquisitions.
Obtain and enforce product patents and revenue and Inability to retain or attract highother IP rights.
performing and high-potential staff could adversely impact achievement Establish and closely monitor stock levels.
Damage to of group objectives.
Ongoing partnerships with manufacturers Significant disruptions of information and packagers to optimize manufacturing Exposure to technology systems or breaches of data and Quality Assurance QA processes.
security could disable critical systems Continuously review talent retention and cause loss of sensitive data.
program with focus on identifying key roles and successors.
Inability of the organization to operate independently post separation from IT disaster and data recovery plans previous owners.
in place to support overall business continuity plans.
Established a separation steering committee to monitor separation activities and transitional services agreement.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 27 Strategic Report Operational detail Product safety, regulation and litigation As an innovative pharmaceutical company, we seek to obtain appropriate intellectual property protection for our products.
Our ability to obtain and enforce patents and other proprietary rights particularly for our products, drug formulation and delivery technologies and associated manufacturing processes is critical to our business strategy and success.
The manufacture of the Groups products is highly exacting and complex due in part to strict regulatory and manufacturing requirements.
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients API in many of the Groups products and product candidates are controlled substances that are subject to extensive regulation in all the countries in which we market our products.
The testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sales of pharmaceutical products entail a risk of product liability claims, product recalls, litigation, and associated adverse publicity, each of which could have a material adverse impact on the business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.
Specific risks we may face How we manage risk Possible impacts Link to Strategic Priority Failure to obtain, maintain, Obtain and enforce patents and other Loss of revenue Build resilience and protect patents and other proprietary rights.
Suboxone Film in the and profits.
US is covered by three Orange Book-listed Significant legal formulation patents and two process Events such as product liability costs.
patents having terms that run from claims, patient adverse drug Damage to 2022 to 2030. experiences, enforcement against reputation.
improper promotional activities Quality, safety and compliance are Adverse impact and product recalls.
embedded in the Groups culture.
The Group on Groups has instituted policies, systems, and Potential liability and or additional ability to raise training programs to ensure adherence expenses associated with ongoing funds necessary to regulations governing product quality, regulatory obligations and oversight.
to continue its patient safety and business standards.
Regulatory Excellence program in place to ensure product compliance with dossier requirements.
New product development The regulatory approval process for new pharmaceutical products is expensive, time-consuming and uncertain.
Even if product candidates are approved, there is no guarantee that they will be able to achieve expected market acceptance.
Specific risks we may face How we manage risk Possible impacts Link to Strategic Priority Potential delays Develop our Failure to receive regulatory Increased R&D investment to enhance approval to successfully clinical capabilities and support the or inability to pipeline.
develop new commercialize a pipeline product.
Failure of third-party Clinical Thorough contract review process in treatment.
Research Organizations to place to ensure that third-party vendors Hinder patient properly successfully perform are properly vetted, inherent risks are access to their legal, regulatory, and identified and mitigated, deliverables and treatment.
obligations are clearly defined before Loss of revenue contracts are finalized.
Inability of product candidates, and profits.
Ongoing monitoring of the third partys if approved, to achieve expected Damage to market acceptance.
activity and performance to ensure that reputation.
Good Clinical Practices GCP are being Adverse impact followed and milestones are met.
to long-term Financial models and external support in growth.
place to provide market valuation and due diligence support.
28 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Operational detail Government account, pricing and reimbursement pressure The Groups revenues are partly dependent on the availability and level of coverage provided to the Group by private insurance companies and governmental reimbursement schemes for pharmaceutical products, such as Medicare and Medicaid in the US.
Changes to governmental policy or practices could adversely affect the Groups revenues, financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, the reimbursement of treatment established by healthcare providers, private health insurers and other organizations may be reduced.
Specific risks we may face How we manage risk Possible impacts Link to Strategic Priority Reduced reimbursement levels and Continue to work with payors, commercial Loss of revenue Build resilience increasing pricing pressures.
or governmental, to ensure access to and and profits.
Price reductions as a result of Hinder patient Expand global treatment.
government austerity measures or Establishment of health economic access to other price setting action.
business case to justify existing pricing.
Compliance with law and ethical behavior Business practices in the pharmaceutical industry are subject to increasing scrutiny by government authorities.
Failure to comply with applicable laws and rules and regulations in any jurisdiction may result in fines, civil and or criminal legal proceedings.
Specific risks we may face How we manage risk Possible impacts Link to Strategic Priority Non-compliance with antiThe Group has established a compliance Loss of revenue Build resilience corruption, healthcare, data privacy, program applicable to all employees.
or local laws could result in fines, All employees required to complete Damage to Expand global loss of reimbursement, damage to a comprehensive compliance training reputation.
Fines and or Failure to comply with payment and Reviews and controls put in place over penalties.
reporting obligations under the US government pricing and reporting.
Medicaid Drug Rebate program or Increased oversight and monitoring of other governmental pricing programs.
controls and procedures in emerging Restrictions on Groups ability to markets.
sell products or product candidates Continued co-operation with the in certain markets countries due to authorities on on-going investigations controlled substance legislation.
utilizing external counsel as needed.
Government investigations of the Groups activities alleged to be improper.
Acquisitions and business development The Group may seek to acquire businesses or products as part of our strategy to enhance our current portfolio.
Specific risks we may face How we manage risk Possible impacts Link to Strategic Priority Inability to identify, acquire, close Board of Directors reviews all significant Adverse impact Business or integrate acquisition targets transactions.
Internal and external resources in place Expand global to ensure rigorous due diligence and Loss of revenue treatment.
integration of acquisitions and or new and profits.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 29
