02 01 38 Section two Strategic report: performance and risk Annual report and accounts 2014 39 39 02 01 Principal risks and uncertainties The Groups risk management last review, and monitor agreed plans and annual budgets which Like all businesses, Infinis is exposed to risk mitigation measures.
Functional risk will deliver the Groups strategy, process includes risk identification, risk evaluation, identification of risk registers are merged, together with supported by regular reporting and in response we have adopted a structured any additional risks identified by the of performance against these mitigation measures, and risk monitoring including review and Executive Committee to create a plans and budgets to the Board.
consolidated risk register for the This includes both financial and approach to risk management.
We identify, reporting in accordance with the risk management policy.
The Audit Committee reviews non-financial measures: the Groups key risks and the Chief documented in a consolidated risk monitor and, where appropriate, seek to mitigate register and may be supported by Executive reports on them to the promotion of an open culture: Board on a regular basis.
more detailed project plans and other the significant risks identified.
Each risk is assigned assurance arrangements in place to This approach identifies any material ensure policies and procedures are to a risk owner who manages and monitors the risk over time.
To ensure changes in risk profile, any recent adhered to: and material events which have tested the the effectiveness of the process, the results are embedded in the Groups risk management process, and whistle-blowing arrangements.
To ensure systems and procedures.
that understanding risk, and its Assurance arrangements include a management, is at the core of how programme of internal audit reviews Risk management is a continuous and collaborative process in Infinis.
we do business, we provide periodic of different aspects of the Groups Operations briefings to our Management Team.
activities in accordance with an internal Functional risk registers are used as Risk management tools for identifying, evaluating, audit plan agreed by the Audit Internal control Committee on behalf of the Board.
Each accountability 24 7 business function has responsibility The Group has a comprehensive The internal audit plan is reviewed system of internal controls which annually by the Audit Committee and for maintaining its own risk register to monitor basis enables identify and manage risk.
Functional operates in parallel with the risk ensures that, over a three to four year us to manage management process.
The main cycle, all material aspects of the The Group believes that an efficient provide independent assessment of risk registers identify risks, the main and effective risk management and risk and control, and to further risk owner, shared responsibilities, elements of the Groups internal Groups business are reviewed to operational risk control system comprise: ensure appropriate internal controls control framework is vital to the strengthen our risk management the inherent risk profile before any future success of the business.
Following the formation of mitigation, and residual risk profile are in place and operating effectively, a well defined governance and, where appropriate, The Board has overall responsibility Infinis Energy plc as the ultimate taking into account current and Business strategy for the Groups system of risk holding company of the Group, planned mitigation.
Functions structure within which the improvements made.
formally review the management of organisation operates: management and internal control internal audit is accountable directly which is designed to eliminate or to the Board of Infinis Energy plc risks under their ownership and The Board confirms that no report to the Executive Committee clearly defined delegated levels significant failings have been manage the risk of failure to achieve through the Audit Committee of the Groups objectives.
The Audit Infinis Energy plc.
and Chief Executive on a half-yearly of authority: identified in the Groups system basis.
The Executive Management of internal controls in the year Committee carries out an annual assessment of the effectiveness of Risk management process Team reviews the functional risk documentation and ended 31 March 2014. registers for completeness, material communication of policies and key internal controls and risk Risk management in Infinis is directly management prior to consideration linked to business strategy and the events which have arisen since the business processes: by the Board.
There is a programme achievement of business objectives.
risk management in for regular review and development Risk is defined in our risk Infinis is directly linked throughout the Group which is management policy as the monitored by the Audit Committee.
combination of the likelihood and to business strategy Our risk management process impact of actions or events which and the achievement is well-embedded within our could adversely affect Infinis ability of objectives Internal Control Framework to meet its objectives.
The aim of our and governance arrangements.
risk management policy is to: The Executive Directors of Infinis improve decision making and Energy Holdings Limited and its increase the likelihood that the subsidiaries the Executive Groups objectives will be achieved: Management Team have functional day-to-day responsibility for risk reduce the probability that identification, analysis and damaging events will occur: and management.
The Group has an independent internal audit capability minimise the impact if damaging accountable directly to the Board events do occur.
through the Audit Committee, to 02 40 Section two Strategic report: performance and risk Annual report and accounts 2014 41 02 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk assessed to have increased since last year In the table below, the following key applies: Risk assessed to have stayed the same as last year Risk assessed to have decreased since last year Risk description Mitigation comments Change Risk description Mitigation comments Change Estimates and methodology for gas availability Although year-on-year revenues may be more and forecasting were independently reviewed volatile as a result of the migration of LFG output 1 3 prior to the IPO in November 2013.
The results from the NFFO to RO regime, all-in prices achieved of the independent review were consistent with from RO sales are significantly higher.
Landfill gas availability Increasing proportion of revenues Around 50% of revenue obtained from RO sales is dependent on wholesale power prices Gas may decline faster than anticipated due to Managements estimates are regularly updated to fixed and increases annually by RPI.
We mitigate inaccurate estimates and or changes in waste reflect latest waste volumes mix, and tipping plans A proportion of our LFG output is sold at fixed short-to medium-term wholesale power price volume or mix, resulting in lower revenues and provided by landfill operators at least on an annual prices under the NFFO regime 27% of LFG output volatility by selling ahead a proportion of our impairment of the carrying value of assets.
basis, in line with the annual reporting cycle.
All of these expected LFG output at fixed prices.
contracts will expire by 2018 and, as they expire, We have a strong track record of forecasting output will be sold under the RO regime.
A All of our existing wind generation has been available gas.
Over the last five years output from significant proportion of revenues derived from accredited under the RO regime, with around 50% landfill gas has varied between plus and minus 2% RO sales is dependent on wholesale power prices.
of expected revenue fixed and increasing annually compared with budget Due to the volatility of wholesale power prices, our by RPI.
Exposure to the wholesale power price revenues are likely to be more volatile than has element is mitigated by a 30 MWh floor price been the case historically.
included in long-term sales agreements.
We have recently agreed terms for extending circa 10 MW of expiring leases, reducing the The proportion of Group revenue derived from New wind farms will either be accredited under the 2 amount of future revenues at risk from failure to wind generation is expected to increase as we RO regime or under the CfD regime currently being extend leases.
This maintains our 100% success deliver on our growth agenda.
We have historically introduced which offers fixed prices.
Failure to extend leases rate for lease renewals.
sold wind under long-term sales agreements where the price is referenced to day-ahead Early termination Infinis has a dedicated compliance function to wholesale power prices.
Due to the volatility of We do not own any of our operating sites and are monitor compliance with our environmental wholesale power prices and intermittency of dependent on lease arrangements.
Failure to obligations e. g. maintaining permits.
wind, our revenues are likely to be more volatile renew expiring leases could result in a reduction than has been the case historically.
We recently launched an improvement programme designed to streamline our royalties payment Failure to comply with existing lease terms could process and to improve the level of service provided We enter into contracts with credit-worthy result in early termination resulting in a reduction to counterparties.
counterparties and have recently added additional 4 in revenues.
counterparties to reduce concentration risk.
We are also exploring alternative routes to market.
Counterparty risk We have made significant improvements in working We sell our generation output and related products capital management and we will seek to maintain to a small number of UK counterparties under a these improvements to ensure any potential loss variety of contractual relationships.
Failure of a for power already delivered is minimised.
counterparty to honour a contract may result in loss of revenue for power already delivered or, for power not yet delivered, a loss of future revenue where we are unable to enter into a replacement contract with another counterparty.
The Group believes that an efficient and effective risk management and control framework is a vital element of its past and future success.
02 42 Section two Strategic report: performance and risk Annual report and accounts 2014 43 02 Risk description Mitigation comments Change Principal risks and uncertainties continued Over the years the UK has made several changes to the support mechanisms for renewable power Risk description Mitigation comments Change 7 but has adopted a consistent grandfathering approach throughout.
There are no indications that A significant proportion of our revenue increases this approach will change.
Changes in government support annually in line with inflation.
for renewables 5 The UK requires additional renewable generation We reduce short-to medium-term revenue The Group is dependent on regulatory support for to meet its binding 2020 targets.
We will continue volatility by selling a proportion of our expected its existing generating capacity, through the NFFO to lobby government through industry trade Commodity price risk generation forward at fixed prices in accordance and RO regimes, for a significant proportion of our bodies of the advantages of continued on-shore Electricity prices are determined by a number of with our trading strategy.
Changes to this support could have a wind investment as being the lowest cost source of factors including electricity demand and the price material impact on our revenues.
of certain commodities oil, gas, coal and carbon.
Our largest single cost item is royalties which are Commodity prices have a direct impact on the directly correlated with revenues and is therefore Continued regulatory support is required for our The UK requires additional renewable generation cost of generation and therefore electricity prices.
plans to build 130 to 150 MW of new wind capacity to meet its binding 2020 targets.
As we are a price taker and do not set the price over the next three years.
New wind farms of electricity, our revenues will be affected by commissioned after 2017 will receive support changes in commodity prices.
under new arrangements the CfD regime, with a three year transition period between 2014 and 2017.
Details of how the new arrangements will We have experience of raising project finance and work in practice are still emerging.
It is unclear are well known to lenders.
Until we refinanced our what impact the new regime will have on the 6 operational wind portfolio in October 2013 with prices we will achieve from new generation.
a single facility winner of European Onshore Wind Deal of the Year we operated ten separate Energy policy uncertainty in the run-up to the Funding risk project finance facilities provided by nine lenders.
2015 general election is likely to increase.
In Although we have sufficient liquidity to meet our It is notable that throughout the recession wind addition there could be changes in support levels current needs, our plan to build 130 to 150 MW farm developers including Infinis were able to offered to new generation following the election of new wind capacity over the next three years is raise project finance.
We have recently appointed which could affect our growth agenda.
dependent on being able to raise new debt.
If we lenders to provide finance in respect of a 43 MW are unable to do so then our ability to grow the consented site.
Although it is unclear what impact Scottish independence would have on the support for 8 existing renewable capacity and the economics for new wind farm development, the Scottish Scottish referendum Government has indicated its strong support for renewable energy.
The Scottish referendum will take place on 18 September 2014.
In the event of a yes vote, it is RUK would still have obligations to meet its 2020 unclear what regulatory support will be available EU targets for renewable energy with Scotland for renewables.
As a significant proportion of our being an obvious source given its strong wind existing wind capacity and wind farm pipeline is resource.
This may result in regulatory support located in Scotland, revenues from operational for existing renewable capacity and new wind wind farms, and our ability to execute our developments continuing, albeit possibly in a growth agenda, could be threatened, resulting different form.
Although wind is increasing as a proportion of total generating capacity, LFG remains significant due 9 to a combination of higher installed capacity and its base load-like characteristics.
Weather We have sufficient liquidity to ensure we are Weather impacts both demand for electricity and able to continue to meet all of our commitments, our ability to generate.
Weather can have a small regardless of wind revenue volatility for the impact on LFG production but has a much greater foreseeable future.
As wind assumes an ever greater share of our generating capacity, output volatility is likely to increase resulting in greater revenue volatility.
