STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING 2014 PERFORMANCE PRINCIPAL RISK FACTORS 1.
The Groups businesses are affected by the economic It is important to ensure we have conditions of the sectors and regions in which they effective and proportionate processes and their customers operate and the markets in which the Group operates are highly competitive and subject in place to control and manage risks to rapid change faced by the Group as a whole.
This The performance of the Group depends on the financial health is recognised in everything we do, and and strength of its customers, which in turn is dependent on is fundamental to the performance the economic conditions of the industries and geographic regions in which they operate.
Traditionally, spending on parts of each of the business divisions.
of the Groups products has been cyclical due to companies spending significantly less in times of economic uncertainty.
The markets for the Groups products are highly competitive and in a state of ongoing and uncertain change.
If the Group is unable to successfully enhance and or develop its products in atimely fashion, the Groups revenue could be affected.
There are also low barriers to entry in relation to certain parts of the Groups businesses.
number of factors could potentially affect Mitigation is achieved, where possible, through the Groups the Groups operating results and financial diversification of its operations across vertical markets and position principal risk factors.
The Group geographies, which provides a broad customer base.
The A adopts a risk management process which Group maintains a competitive advantage through ongoing is intended to ensure a consistent and investment in its products, reinforcing its market leading coherent approach to managing the position in many markets.
principal risk factors that are described in this section.
These principal risk factors have been identified by 2.
The Groups continued growth depends, in part, an assessment of their material impact and relative likelihood of on its ability to identify and complete acquisitions occurrence to all or parts of the Group, and can be categorised and its ability to expand the business into new as being either financial, commercial, reputational, ethical or geographic regions regulatory risks.
The Risk Committee is a sub-committee of, and is accountable With new acquisitions there can be no assurances that the to, the Audit Committee which, along with Internal Audit, Group will achieve the expected return on its investment, provides oversight to help ensure that there is a system of particularly as the success of any acquisition also depends in suitable internal controls in place to mitigate the impact and part on the Groups ability to integrate the acquired business likelihood of each principal risk factor.
Attractive acquisitions may be difficult to identify andconclude for a number of reasons, including competition Policies and procedures have been implemented to assist with among prospective buyers and economic uncertainty.
These are designed to help ensure a level of compliance across the Group, to support the identification of The Group has formal investment criteria to identify suitable, any new risks, and to enhance the Groups ability to respond earnings-enhancing, acquisition targets and employs experienced effectively to risks, if they crystallise.
professionals to drive the acquisition process.
Post-acquisition integration plans are prepared to ensure businesses are effectively Each principal risk factor is assigned to an appropriate member integrated into the Group and that planned synergies are realised.
of the Risk Committee, who is accountable to the Risk Committee for that risk.
The principal risk factors are managed either at In expanding its business geographically, both organically and anoperational level, Group level, or a combination of both.
by acquisition, the Group reviews risks relevant to particular geographies and formulates appropriate mitigation strategies This section describes the principal risk factors that the on a case-by-case basis.
Directors believe could materially affect the Group, but this is not an exhaustive list as other risks may arise or existing risks may materially increase in the future.
These are listed in no order of priority, and beneath the description of each risk is anote of the main mitigating factors and actions the Group istaking to address that particular risk.
com 62 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 3.
Reliance on or loss of key customers may reduce 5.
Significant operational disruption demand for the Groups products caused by a major disaster In recent years, more public sources of free or relatively Major disasters, either arising from natural causes or man-made, inexpensive information have become available, particularly have the potential to significantly disrupt the operation ofthe through the internet, and this trend is expected to continue.
In particular, the success of the Global Exhibitions Forexample, some governmental and regulatory agencies and Knowledge & Networking Divisions is dependent on haveincreased the amount of information they make publicly bringing potentially large numbers of individuals to events, available at no cost.
Such sources may reduce demand for eitheras paying delegates or non-paying visitors toExhibitions.
Incidents that have the capacity to result in significant operational disruption to global travel include natural disasters, In the Global Exhibitions Division there are a number military conflict, political unrest, terrorist activity and industrial ofExhibitions that, individually, contribute significantly action.
Additionally, disasters can disrupt the Groups electronic toprofitability because of the size of the events and the platforms and distribution systems as outlined in point 8. relativelyhigh gross profit margins earned by them.
Business continuity plans have been implemented across the To mitigate this risk, the Group continuously monitors Group, including disaster recovery programmes, and plans changesin the marketplace and regularly seeks feedback tominimise business disruption.
The Group also has relevant fromcustomers, adjusting its product offering in response insurance cover for certain occurrences.
The Group also invests in its products anddeliveryplatforms.
A major accident at an Exhibition or event The impact of any given event on the Group can potentially increase if the emerging situation is not managed appropriately The Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & Networking or effectively.
In addition to the principal risk factors documented Divisions organise events that can be attended by large in this section, other risk factors have the ability to cause numbers of visitors on any given day, which results in operational significant damage to the Groups Brand and reputation if health and safety risks, including fire safety, structural collapse effective management is not implemented to mitigate their ofa stand, food hygiene, crowd control, security, and access impact.
Additionally, the speed and global coverage of media and egress inan emergency.
Additionally, both Divisions do not can result in a perceived crisis being communicated rapidly, normally own the venues they operate from, instead hiring floor thus further damaging the Groups Brand and reputation.
space ona tenancy basis which relies on the owners of the venues maintaining adequate safety policies, which comply with To mitigate this risk, senior management communicate effectively all regulations in the local jurisdiction.
At its most severe, a major within the organisation, constantly reviewing the Groups incident could result in major injuries or loss of life.
Due to the responses to emerging issues.
However, by their nature, it is geographic reach of both Divisions, the Group is exposed to impossible to have a detailed crisis management plan in place for various jurisdictions with the applicable compliance requirements.
all potential situations that could arise, and therefore the ultimate mitigation is dependent on managements judgement, speed of The risks are mitigated by the Groups Health and Safety policy, reaction and quality of communication in acrisis situation.
which is considered and approved by the Board.
The divisional CEOs have the responsibility for ensuring the operational 7.
The Group is dependent on the internet and its digital safetyand compliance of their respective businesses.
The delivery platforms, networks and distribution systems implementation of the policies is the responsibility of local management teams, with the Group Health and Safety Managers available to assist with the implementation.
The venues used for The Groups businesses are increasingly dependent on digital our events are risk assessed against minimum company criteria.
platforms and distribution systems, which primarily deliver the Groups products through the internet.
Any significant failure or A programme of annual internal audits and governance reviews interruption in availability of key systems or the Groups critical is carried out by our Internal Audit department: in 2014 these IT infrastructure could thereby restrict the Groups ability to included visits to various events in different geographic regions provide services to customers and colleagues.
and focused on the health and safety management ofhigh risk The Group regularly invests in its IT capabilities, including technical events.
The Event Operations Managers meet as a group to discuss the health and safety issues and share best practice controls, robust backups of IT systems, and development and onan annual basis.
The Health and Safety Managers report testing of Disaster Recovery Plans to limit theimpact to business operations as a result of dependency onIT systems.
onHealth and Safety issues to the Risk Committee.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 63 STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING 2014 PERFORMANCE PRINCIPAL RISK FACTORS CONTINUED in emerging markets where tax frameworks are not as well 8.
Breaches of the Groups information security systems or other unauthorised access to its sensitive developed, which increases this risk.
There can therefore be no information could adversely affect the Groups assurance that the various levels of taxation to which the Group businesses and operations is subject will not be increased or changed.
In addition, if any Group company is found to be, or to have been, tax resident inany jurisdiction other than those in which the Group is The Group has valuable information databases and as part currently deemed to be tax resident or to have a permanent ofits business provides its customers and colleagues with establishment in any such jurisdiction, then that may have a access to these.
There are persons who may try to breach the material adverse effect on the amount of tax payable by the Groups information security controls to compromise or gain Group.
Finally, regardless of whether the Group has paid the unauthorised access to its databases in order to misappropriate correct amount of tax, there may be a public perception that such information for potentially fraudulent purposes or obtain the Group has not paid sufficient tax and that may have a competitive advantage.
This could damage the Groups reputational impact on the Group.
reputation and expose it to risks of loss, litigation and or regulatory action, as well as increase the likelihood of more The Group employs an experienced Head of Group Tax who extensive governmental and or regulatory supervision of these keeps abreast of potential changes in tax legislation across activities in a way that could adversely affect this aspect of the arange of jurisdictions, enabling the Group to react quickly Groups business.
tochanges in the tax position of any of its companies or businesses.
In emerging markets, the Group works with The Group regularly invests in improving information security established and reputable tax advisers in order to ensure it toprotect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of its pays the correct amount of tax.
The Group is also careful to information assets against cyberattacks or misuse.
These ensure that profits arising in low tax jurisdictions are no more efforts are led by a designated information security officer.
than commensurate with the substance of the operation in Inthe event of unauthorised access, the Group would those territories.
protectits intellectual property IP as outlined in point 11.
The Groups IP rights may not be adequately 9.
The Group relies on the experience and talent of its protected and may be challenged by third parties senior management and on its ability to recruit and retain key employees for the success of its business The Group relies on agreements with its customers as well as trademark, copyright and other IP laws to establish and protect The successful management and operations of the Group are the IP rights subsisting in its journals, books and training reliant upon the contributions of its senior management and materials.
However, these rights may be challenged, limited, other key personnel.
In addition, the Groups future success depends in part on its ability to continue to recruit, motivate invalidated or circumvented by third parties seeking to infringe andretain highly experienced and qualified employees in or otherwise profit from the Groups proprietary rights without its authorisation.
In addition, there is now a growing amount theface of often intense competition from other companies.
ofcopyright legislation relating to digital content.
These laws The Group offers compensation packages which are remain under legislative review and there remains significant competitive based on current market information and thereby uncertainty as to the form copyright law may ultimately take.
give it the best opportunity to recruit and retain people of Additionally, enforcement of IP rights is restricted in certain sufficient calibre.
The Group believes that its people are jurisdictions, and the global nature of the internet makes it challenged in their day-to-day work and obtain appropriate impossible to control the ultimate destination of content andrelevant experience to develop further and prepare for produced by the Group.
The Group may also be the subject progression within the organisation.
ofclaims for infringement of third party rights or party to claims to determine the scope and validity of the IP rights of others.
Changes in tax laws or their application or Litigation based on these claims is common amongst interpretation may adversely impact the Group companies that utilise digital IP.
The Group protects its rights by consolidating and regularly The Group operates in a large number of countries.
monitoring its portfolio of trademark registrations, implementing Accordingly, its earnings are subject to tax in many jurisdictions.
its Brand protection strategy and increasing its digital rights Relevant authorities may amend the substance or interpretation protection.
The Group supports these activities through of tax laws that apply to the Groups businesses in a manner membership of organisations that defend IP rights globally.
that is adverse to the Group.
The Group is growing its business www.
com 64 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Mitigation is achieved through structured communication with 12.
The Group is subject to regulation regarding the use of personal data the external parties, close monitoring of financial and budgetary performance, and delivery against project milestones.
In some instances capital and interest payments occur during the loan The Group is required to comply with strict data protection term and so any failure to pay can be addressed at the time andprivacy legislation, which restricts the Groups ability to and remedial actions can be taken.
The Risk Committee collect and use personal information.
The Group is exposed conducts credit risk assessments on a half-yearly basis to tothe riskthat this data could be wrongfully appropriated, ensure the external receivables are correctly recorded in lostor disclosed, or processed in breach of data protection theGroups Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
regulation, by or on behalf of the Group, in which case the Group could face liability under data protection laws and or suffer reputational damage from the resulting lost goodwill 15.
The Growth Acceleration Plan may not achieve the intended level of return or anticipated growth ofindividuals such as customers or employees.
in business activities The Group seeks to monitor ongoing changes to data protection laws and best practices across its main trading While the deployment of capital to fund Growth Acceleration areasin order to ensure that appropriate protections and Plan-related initiatives is subject to strict investment criteria, procedures are in place in relation to the data held by or on there can be no guarantee that all the investment projects behalf of the Group.
This work is overseen by the Group willachieve the intended level of return or the desired level General Counsel and an Information Protection Steering ofgrowth.
The Group is not immune to, among other things, Committee, a sub-committee of the Risk Committee.
the effects of a potential material downgrade in the prevailing business environment which could lead to one, or more, of 13.
The Group may be adversely affected by enforcement theGrowth Acceleration Plan-related initiatives not meeting of and changes in legislation and regulation affecting theirinvestment return and or growth projections.
its businesses and those of its customers Implementation and restructuring activities resulting from the Growth Acceleration Plan could lead to a disruption in current Compliance with various laws and regulations does impose business activities and trading, including, where relevant, significant compliance costs and restrictions on the Group, potential loss of knowledge, at a level higher than originally withthe risk of fines and or other sanctions for non-compliance.
This could lead to a revision of planned In addition, such regulations often provide broad discretion to implementation activities and timescales within the Growth the administering authorities and changes in existing laws or Acceleration Plan programme, and other actions being adopted regulations, or in their interpretation or enforcement, could to mitigate the impact of the disruption outside of the Growth require the Group to incur additional costs in complying with Acceleration Plan.
those laws, or require changes to its strategy, operations or accounting and reporting systems.
In particular, laws and The Group has established a Growth Acceleration Plan regulations relating to communications, data protection, Governance Framework that operates a stage-gate e-commerce, direct marketing and digital advertising have approachto the design and ultimate implementation of Growth become more prevalent and complex in recent years.
Each stage includes a fundamental review of the business case for each initiative and a formal The Group monitors legislative and regulatory changes process to assess whether a given initiative can be approved, andalters its business practices where appropriate.
Factors that are considered in the review process include a review of the investment business case overseen by 14.
The Groups credit risk in respect the Group Finance Director, executive sponsorship overseen of long-term receivables by the Executive Management Team, technical review conducted by subject-matter specialists and project The Group has a small number of external loans which are management activities at both Group and Division levels.
repayable over the next one to ten years.
The recoverability of Growth Acceleration Plan investment activity has been added the capital and interest payments is dependent on the financial tothe Group Risk Register and will be actively monitored during success of those external parties over the coming years.
Since 2015 and beyond by the Risk Committee, the Audit Committee the majority of the repayment terms are over a long period of and the Group Board, to ensure that material threats to the time, the risk of unforeseen issues that could impact future success of the Growth Acceleration Plan are identified repayments may increase.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 65
