24 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVES 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED BUSINESS MODEL WE PROVIDE VOICE AND DATA CONNECTIVITY WHEREVER YOU ARE: ON LAND, AT SEA OR IN THE AIR We are focused on our customers and how we meet their communication requirements.
we ensure safety at sea, in the air we are a technology Company whose our core competence of quality and on the land: growth is fuelled by innovation: engineering and technology delivery we facilitate business and trade across to succeed, we need to out-innovate is the platform for our aspiration to be the world: our competition: more customer centric in our products we support the vital work of customer and market intimacy is key and services innovation: humanitarian organisations: to successful innovation: we expect our business model to we enable economic and social excellence in operations is key to generate revenues which through development in remote regions and delivering successful innovation: and prudent cost management will drive for the most isolated communities: and we are a customer-focused product high operating margins: and we support governments as a and services business, with technology this generates strong cash ows which trusted partner.
we use to reward our shareholders, our staff and to reinvest in our business.
OUR BUSINESS MODEL MARITIME ENTERPRISE AVIATION US GLOBAL GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENT BUSINESS UNITS Customer intimacy, tailored offerings, agility, reach, innovation CAPABILITIES INVESTMENT OPERATIONS COO DEVELOPMENT AND Operationalising innovation ENGINEERING CTO INNOVATION Delivering high reliability High-paced, high-quality innovation and security Leveraging market customer intimacy Open to external collaboration STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25 OUR PEOPLE OUR VALUES OUR PARTNERS Having the right people with the individual skills, Embedding our corporate values so that all our Having strong relationships with all our partners competencies and experience who can create employees understand that so much of our from suppliers to distributors to strengthen value and deliver our business objectives.
success as a business depends on how they our service offering.
interpret these values: being passionate, open, Example: Ensuring our values are visibly seen enterprising and market-driven.
Example: By working closely with the different to be applied across the business: focusing on parts of our ecosystem we identify opportunities how we have responded to the issues raised in Example: The increased focus on how our to work closer together or spot market the staff survey and how we will deliver further services can be used for aviation safety opportunities which have a mutually beneficial changes in 2015.
Ensuring that we are an agile, combines several of these values: the passion outcome for us all.
devolved and well-trained organisation that can to bring forward ideas and suggest new ways respond powerfully to day-to-day challenges in which the aviation industry can improve If we focus on these different elements, we can and opportunities.
airline reporting, as well as the enterprising and create greater value for ourselves and all our market-driven approach to transform these stakeholders.
These resources and relationships ideas into products and services.
are intrinsically linked and we recognise how important it is not to focus on maximising one of them at the expense of another.
We will become more successful as a business by optimising all our resources and relationships.
OUR TECHNOLOGY OUR SATELLITE NETWORKS OUR FINANCIAL RESOURCES Supporting on-going innovation to deliver Having world renowned satellite network reliability.
Having the financial resources available to us to new products, services and satellite renewal.
Example: Each year we ensure our service meets Example: Our work to open up our architecture the maritime safety at sea standards set by the Example: Reviewing our banking lending to encourage development of new applications IMO and aviation safety standards set by ICAO arrangements to make best use of competitively as recently promoted at our first Inmarsat so that customers know they can rely on us in priced funding as we did for our last bond Developers Conference.
Our forward planning times of need to provide a life-saving service.
nancing in May 2014. for future products, building on what we have now and how we can improve the experience for our customers.
26 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVES 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED A ROBUST APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT An overarching risk management policy is in place actions being taken to manage the risk to the Our principal risks and uncertainties are discussed which sets out the tolerance for risk within the Group desired level.
All the risk registers are reviewed by on the next few pages and are a summary of the and how this is measured across identied macro senior management and provided quarterly to the risks identied in the Preliminary Results Statement and business risks.
Board and to the Audit Committee.
This summary, however, is not intended to be an exhaustive analysis of As required by the policy, management operates The Group faces a number of risks and uncertainties all risks and uncertainties affecting our business.
a risk management process to identify, evaluate that may adversely affect our business, operations, Some risks and uncertainties may be unknown and report significant risks within the business and liquidity, financial position or future performance, not to us and other risks and uncertainties, currently to report to the Board on how those risks are being all of which are wholly within our control.
Although regarded as immaterial, could turn out to be managed.
Risks are highlighted through a number many of the risks and uncertainties inuencing our material.
All of them have the potential to impact of different reviews and culminate in a risk register, performance are macroeconomic and likely to our business, operations, liquidity, financial position monitored by Risk Committees across the Group, affect the performance of businesses generally, or future performance adversely.
which identify the risk area, the probability of the others are particular to our operations in mobile risk occurring, the impact if it does occur and the satellite services.
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS INMARSAT PLC BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE BUSINESS OPERATIONS defines the risk governance framework, Reviews the risk management framework Review the risk management framework risk culture and principles and the effectiveness of internal and the effectiveness of internal Sets overall risk strategy and policy controls, risk management systems controls, risk management systems and Approves risk levels and major risk initiatives major risk initiatives across the Group Responsible for an effective system Reviews the internal audit programme of internal controls and reports Approves risk decisions that are beyond delegated authorities RISK COMMITTEE Reviews the risk prole against risk appetite and makes recommendations to management in relation to risk prole, strategy and key controls Reviews the suitability of risk methodologies, metrics and policies Assesses major risk-related projects BUSINESS OPERATIONS Implement mitigation strategies
