IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Risk management IHG believes that an essential part of being a responsible business is having in place robust and effective risk management and internal controls.
This supports our business to be resilient, successful and trusted.
IHGs approach to risk management The Board is ultimately accountable for risk management Risk across the organisation.
It is supported by the Audit Committee, the Executive Committee and other delegated committees who collectively set the tone and appetite for risk management at IHG.
This is cascaded down to the day-to-day activities of IHG corporate offices and hotels through well-established and continuously improving policies, processes, systems and controls which set 1st Line out clear accountability, and are supported by tools, training Operations and hotels and communication to ensure risks are effectively managed.
Day-to-day activities that identify and manage risks Risks are further identified, assessed, mitigated and monitored Regional Operations, Hotel Executive Committees by functional specialists and, where deemed necessary, Policies, processes, systems, controls and training periodically reviewed by internal and external auditors.
These activities are typically grouped into Three Lines of Defence as shown on the right.
IHGs Global Risk Management team provide subject matter expertise, leadership and support across all these activities.
2nd Line Embedded risk management processes Functional specialists IHG has in place a Major Risk Review process to: Global Sales and Marketing, Global Technology, Global enable the business to identify, assess, manage and monitor Finance, Global Human Resources and Business Reputation the principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group and Responsibility the Major Risks : and Risk identification, assessment, mitigation and monitoring support the Executive Committee, Audit Committee and the Board to monitor, review and reflect upon the progress of risk management activities across the portfolio of Major Risks on a biannual basis.
3rd Line The Major Risks align closely with our strategy and business priorities, and also identify those issues which are most likely to Independent assurance significantly affect other operational, commercial or reputational Internal Audit matters and, as such, are regularly discussed at senior leadership External Audit team and committee meetings.
Our Risk Working Group RWG ensures there is sufficient focus and effective management of the Major Risks, and seeks to improve cross-functional working and effective risk management of the highest priority and emerging risks affecting IHG.
The RWG is chaired by the General Counsel and Company Secretary and comprises the heads of Global Risk Management, Global Strategy, Programme Office and Global Internal Audit.
Underpinning the Groups Major Risk Review process, each of the regions and functions have their own risk profiles that are updated quarterly in line with the activities of the strategic planning cycle.
During the interim periods, continuous dialogue takes place between risk owners and risk subject-matter experts to develop, execute and monitor detailed risk assessments, risk mitigation strategies, controls and key risk indicators.
26 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Holistic approach to risk assessment IHG conducts risk assessments to identify, prioritise and inform decisions on risk mitigation.
Risks are first assessed from an inherent or gross risk perspective unmitigated risk.
Then, internal controls and mitigation activities are identified and developed resulting in a residual or net risk assessment mitigated risk, net of controls.
This is informed by the performance monitoring of internal key risk indicators, which provide objective evidence as to how effectively the risk is being managed.
IHG and its Board think broadly and holistically about potential risks to the business, across the following categories: Risk What are these?
Strategic Risks arising from IHGs relationship with the external Leadership is provided by the Board, the Executive environment that can impact on IHGs ambition and Committee, the Regional Operating Committees strategy over the long term.
Expertise, co-ordination and oversight is provided Include major market and environmental changes or by Global Strategy in conjunction with Global Risk events that could impact our reputation across key Management to drive IHGs leadership to make stakeholder groups.
decisions around its portfolio of brands, key markets, business model and approach to ethics and other reputational matters.
Tactical Risks that could impact the delivery of IHGs one to Performance and delivery risks are managed by three-year commitments.
senior leaders and reported to the Regional Operating Committees and functional leadership teams.
Include, but are not limited to, factors influencing IHGs Project risks are managed by project management ability to sign and open new hotels, the performance teams with oversight provided by our internal of existing hotels and the delivery of projects that align Programme Office and supported by Global with strategic planning processes.
Operational Risks which include a wide spectrum of day-to-day risks Operational risks are managed by frontline hotel that frontline hotel colleagues and corporate teams face colleagues.
when dealing with guests or ensuring corporate systems Oversight is provided, in the context of the managed and processes are running smoothly.
and franchised business models, by specialist functional teams, with leadership provided by the Include, but are not limited to, those managing the safety Regional Operating Committees.
and security of our people and assets, the continuity of Due to the nature of operational risks, IHG the business, third-party service providers and the wider typically mitigates these through policies, supply chain.
operational and business processes and other internal controls supported by systems, tools and training.
Subject-matter expertise, leadership and co-ordination is provided by Global Risk Management and functional specialists.
27 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Risk management continued Managing risks in a changing environment We continue to experience an increasingly risk aware and dynamic external risk environment with changes in political, economic, social, technological, legal and environmental risks.
However, the Groups asset-light business model, diversity of brand portfolio and wide geographical spread contribute to IHGs resilience to events that could affect specific hotels or local areas.
The table below sets out the principal risks and uncertainties the Major Risks in the context of delivering against our strategy for high-quality growth as described on pages 14 to 25.
Whilst the external risk environment is increasingly volatile, uncertain and competitive, this is offset by our decision-making and strengthening risk culture, and efforts to continuously improve controls and mitigation actions some of which is summarised below.
These Major Risks align to our strategic priorities and are therefore proactively managed and monitored by senior management.
They complement the wider comprehensive risk factors set out on pages 162 to 165.
Risk description Controls and mitigations Preferred brands Each of the brands in our portfolio of brands is designed to meet specific guest needs and occasions through distinct and complementary brand propositions see pages 4, 5 Having a portfolio of brands with a clear, and 18.
Our recent acquisition of Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants adds to the strength of distinct brand proposition aimed at meeting our portfolio and, together with EVEN and Hotel Indigo, enhances our boutique and increasingly personalised guest needs and the lifestyle business see pages 20 and 21. occasions they are travelling for, and delivering We will continue to deliver on the growth of the Kimpton brand, running it as a standalone a consistent experience, is crucial to creating business to preserve its uniqueness.
brand preference, loyalty and advocacy.
We continually review ways to increase awareness and loyalty towards our brands Failure to achieve this could impact on IHGs through our loyalty programme, IHG Rewards Club, as well as a blend of global and local competitive position and our reputation with marketing promotions, sponsorships and brand initiatives to create synergies across the guests, owners and investors.
We manage brand consistency through the entire hotel life cycle supported by clear WM TP contractual terms, new hotel opening processes, brand standard requirements and compliance processes.
This is supported by tools, training and guidance to assist those working at our hotels and owners to enable them to deliver brand consistency.
Leadership and talent We have in place a comprehensive global people strategy see page 23 to ensure we are able to recruit, retain and develop talent at our hotels, corporate offices and central IHG must recruit and retain the right people reservations offices.
This includes our Room to be yourself commitment underpinned and give them the tools, guidance and support by a set of globally consistent policies, guidance, systems and tools, with localisation to be successful in order to deliver a preferred where appropriate.
Recruiting and retaining Supplementing the global strategy, we have developed local people strategies for some people to work in its hotels, especially in of our priority markets to ensure we are best placed to be the employer of choice in these rapidly growing emerging markets, is a markets.
These strategies make necessary adjustments to meet local languages, laws, particular challenge and ensuring we customs and cultural nuances and to effectively leverage local recruitment channels.
have the right leadership is crucial.
IHG Academy assists us to fill our talent pipeline whilst supporting the local communities Failure to manage these could impact on IHGs see page 25. service delivery and IHGs brands, result in Our leadership framework, support tools, and training and development programmes increased cost of recruitment and have a help our people grow their careers, thereby managing internal talent.
We proactively broader impact on performance and delivery.
manage and monitor succession planning at all levels.
We consider the diversity more broadly than gender of our people and leadership, reviewing it in light of our guests and WM fide RB the local communities in which we operate see page 62.
How each Major Risk links to our strategic priorities described on pages 16 to 25 WM Winning Model TP Targeted Portfolio fide Disciplined Execution RB Responsible Business 28 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Risk description Controls and mitigations Channel management and technology We recognise that technological advances and changing guest expectations mean that we must continually invest in, and improve, our technological systems see page 22 platforms to deliver across the Guest Journey to build lifetime relationships with our guests.
Our Booking and distribution channels and focus is on encouraging guests to use direct booking channels.
However, recognising that technological systems are a key part of some travellers use online travel agencies and intermediaries, IHG seeks to secure better delivering across the Guest Journey and terms with them on behalf of our owners.
an important value driver for our owners.
Our Global Technology function works collaboratively with specialist third-party This is also an area where there is rapid technology partners to continuously monitor, manage and optimise our systems and change in terms of technology, guest channels, including their resilience through backup systems and business continuity expectations and relationships, with online practices, to enhance all aspects of the Guest Journey.
travel intermediaries and travel agents impacting guests booking direct.
Operating in nearly 100 countries and territories, IHG takes information security very seriously and has applied risk-based methods to build capability and resilience Threats to information security, from into our systems and processes.
We manage data security to contain the risk payment card information and other and reduce the Groups exposure, tightly controlling sensitive data through limited information held in IT systems, paper format and monitored access.
and other formats, is a growing concern We continue to aim to be fully compliant with Payment Card Industry Data Security which could impact our operations, result Standards PCI-DSS using tools and services from a leading specialist third-party in fines and other incremental costs, provider with respect to payment-card processing.
and undermine stakeholder trust in our business.
Failure to effectively manage and keep under review our channels and information technology infrastructure to optimise performance and resilience could impact on IHGs revenue delivery systems, guest experience, return for our owners and investors, and IHGs future performance.
WM fide RB Owner proposition IHGs regional teams build relationships with owners through a variety of methods, including formal and informal communications and owner conferences.
We continually As a result of IHGs predominantly review and update our central support tools and systems, to offer a compelling owner franchised and managed business model proposition see page 17. and the increasingly competitive market IHG works closely with the IHG Owners Association, to ensure we have an understanding for deals, maintaining strong relationships and insight into owners perspectives, particularly with respect to new programmes and with owners, having a compelling value initiatives see www.
com ihgowners for a message from the 2014 Chairman of the proposition, and demonstrating attractive IHG Owners Association.
returns on investment for our existing, new and potential owners is critical to sustaining The System Fund described on page 49 is managed by IHG for the benefit of all our IHGs growth.
hotels with the objective of driving revenue for them, and its use is reviewed annually in collaboration with the IHG Owners Association.
Failure to manage the owner proposition Long-term franchise and management contracts, owner due diligence, new hotel opening may result in the poor retention of hotels, teams and processes, Hotel Solutions our internal online portal which provides tools and impact on IHGs System size and and guidance to hotels across a number of operational areas and the wider corporate development pipeline.
infrastructure are put in place to leverage scale, support our hotels and maintain relationships with owners throughout the life cycle of the hotel.
WM TP fide RB Reputation and brand protection Our commitment to responsible business underpins our strategy and is embedded in our culture throughout the organisation see pages 24 and 25.
IHG recognises the importance of its brands and reputation as important assets We have in place a comprehensive set of internal policies, processes and other internal for the business.
Societal and legal changes controls supported by tools, training, monitoring and reporting.
are increasingly holding organisations Leadership in this area is provided by IHGs Business Reputation and Responsibility function accountable for activities associated with comprising lawyers, brand standard compliance managers, chartered secretaries, corporate their extended enterprise.
With digital responsibility specialists, risk managers and internal auditors who work together with the rest technology, news and the media, including of the business to champion and protect the trusted reputation of IHG and our brands.
social media, heighten the need for IHG, all Our proactive risk-based approach to safety and security, intellectual property, regulatory those working in our hotels and corporate compliance, litigation, crisis management and human rights are examples of the activities offices, owners and business partners to in place to manage reputational risk.
Reputation is a complex matter that involves all areas of business.
Failure to safeguard the reputation of IHG and our brands could have a severe impact on the Groups future performance.
