30 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES We operate in a business environment in which a number of risks and uncertainties exist.
While it is not possible to eliminate these completely, the established risk-management and internal control procedures, which are regularly reviewed by the Group Risk Committee on behalf of the Board, are designed to manage their effects and thus contribute to the creation of value for the Groups shareholders as we pursue our business objectives.
The Group continues to be dependent on effective maintenance of its systems and controls.
Over and above that, the principal risks and uncertainties which the Group addresses through its risk-management measures are detailed below.
RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION AND MONITORING Among the changes which could affect our business are: We seek to mitigate these risks by fostering longBUSINESS, term relationships with our clients and partners, our ECONOMIC shifts in the economic climate both in the UK and governmental quasi-governmental medium-to-long-term internationally, including changes in the oil and gas AND POLITICAL revenue streams, the development of additional capabilities industry: ENVIRONMENT to meet anticipated demand in new growth areas, careful alterations in the UK governments policy with regard supply chain management and by operating in various to expenditure on improving public infrastructure, regions of the world, including the Middle East, where we buildings, services and modes of service delivery are able to transfer resources to maximum effect between and delays in or cancellation of the procurement of the differing economies of that region.
government-related projects: We also have in place committed financing with long the imposition of unusually onerous contract conditions maturity dates.
by major clients: We constantly monitor market conditions and assess our changes in our competitors behaviour: capabilities in comparison to those of our competitors.
a deterioration in the profile of our counterparty risk: and Whether we win, lose or retain a contract we analyse civil unrest and or shifts in the political climate in some the reasons for our success or shortcomings and feed the of the regions in which we operate information back at both tactical and strategic levels.
We also constantly monitor our cost base and take action to any one or more of which might result in a failure to win new ensure it is suitable given the prevailing market environment.
or sufficiently profitable contracts in our chosen markets or to complete contracts with sufficient profitability.
We have also set ourselves the goals of delivering sustainability solutions to our clients, ensuring that we and our suppliers uphold the highest standards in equality, diversity, human rights and ethics, playing an active role in the communities in which we operate and placing sustainability at the heart of our business.
As we focus on large-volume relationships with certain major Among our mitigation strategies are targeting work within, MAJOR clients for a significant part of our revenue, termination of or complementary to, our existing competencies, the CONTRACTS one or more of the associated contracts would be likely to fostering of long-term relationships with clients, operating reduce our revenue and profit.
In addition, the management an authority matrix for the approval of large bids, monthly of such contracts entails potential risks including mis-pricing, management reporting with key performance indicators at inaccurate specification, failure to appreciate risks being contract and business level, the use of monthly cost-value taken on, poor control of costs or of service delivery, subreconciliation, supply chain management and ensuring that contractor insolvency and failure to recover, in part or in periodic benchmarking and or market testing are included full, payments due for work undertaken.
in long-term contracts PFI PPP contracts.
In PFI PPP contracts, which can last for periods of around 30 years, there may be increases in costs, including wage inflation, beyond those anticipated.
We enjoy demonstrable success in working with third parties We have a proven track record of developing and re-enforcing OPERATING both through joint ventures and associated companies in the such relationships in a mutually beneficial way over a long SYSTEM UK and abroad.
This success results in a material proportion period of time and our experience of this places us well to of our profits and cash flow being generated from businesses preserve existing relationships and create new ones as part of in which we do not have overall control.
Any weakening of our business model.
The measures taken to limit risk in this our strong relationships with these business partners could area include: board representation, shareholders agreements, have an effect on our profits and cash flow.
management secondments, local borrowings and rights of audit in addition to investing time in personal relationships.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 31 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION AND MONITORING The success of our business is dependent on recruiting, We have a Group-wide leadership programme designed KEY PEOPLE retaining, developing, motivating and communicating to support the strategic aims of the Company.
We have with sufficient numbers of appropriately skilled, various incentive schemes and run a broad range of training competent people of integrity at all levels of the courses for people at all stages in their careers.
This is particularly relevant during periods human resources management and Investors in People of rapid growth and expansion into new markets.
accreditation in many parts of the Group, we manage our people professionally and encourage them to develop and fulfil their maximum potential with the Group.
We have also set ourselves the goals of inspiring the next generation of professionals, measuring and recognising the value of people, society and the environment.
The nature of the businesses conducted by the Group A commitment to safety forms part of our mission HEALTH AND involves exposure to health and safety risks for both statement and the subject leads every Board meeting SAFETY REGIME employees and third parties.
Management of these both at Group and divisional level.
Each member of the risks is critical to the success of the business and is Executive Board undertakes dedicated visits to look at implemented through the adoption and maintenance health and safety measures in place at our operational of rigorous operational and occupational health and sites and we have ongoing campaigns across the Group safety procedures.
We are subject to certain financial risks which are We have policies in place to monitor the effective FINANCIAL discussed in the Financial Review on page 46. management of working capital, including the production RISKS of daily balances, weekly cash reports and forecasts In particular, we carry out major projects which, from together with monthly management reporting.
time to time, require substantial amounts of cash to finance working capital, capital expenditure and We have in place committed financing with long investment in PFI projects.
Failure to manage working maturity dates.
capital appropriately could result in us being unable to meet our trading requirements and ultimately to defaulting on our banking covenants.
Issues arising within contracts, from the management of Control procedures and checks governing the operation DAMAGE TO our businesses or from the behaviour of our employees of our contracts and of our businesses, supported by REPUTATION at all levels, can have broader repercussions on the business continuity plans are in place.
With the expansion Groups reputation than simply their direct impact and of our front-line services there is even more emphasis may have an adverse impact upon the Groups licence placed upon having proper procedures in place to monitor to operate.
This risk increases as we expand the range performance, escalate issues and monitor our response.
of front-line services being delivered.
We have a clear set of core values which we strive to embed within our organisation and set ourselves the goals of creating a culture of innovation in sustainability and offering transparency to clients on public-sector projects.
Adverse weather events, travel disruption, long-term We have in place business continuity plans for our own ENVIRONMENTAL climate shifts, water stress and sea-level rises which businesses and work closely with our clients in respect of CHANGE could have uncertain implications for our business their business continuity arrangements.
and for many of our clients, who increasingly require We have set ourselves the goals of being responsible us to help them address the impact of these issues on for zero net loss in biodiversity, procuring products and their activities.
services beyond best practice in environmental and social standards, becoming a water positive business, halving our absolute carbon emissions and those from our supply chain, helping our clients to increase their energy security, caring for the natural resources we use including treating waste as a resource and building resilience to environmental change in everything we do.
The Group continues to have no material exposure to currency risks.
Whilst it does not trade in commodities, the Group does operate in countries where their economies depend upon commodity extraction and are therefore subject to volatility in commodity prices.
The Groups principal businesses operate in countries which we regard as politically stable.
