STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14 Strategic report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 15 Associated strategic priorities Principal risks and uncertainties continued L Leading positions in core industries C Customer relationships & service IP Investing in people I Industry consolidation & targeted acquisitions G Global network & service expansion P Process efficiency Operational PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2014 UPDATE POLITICAL RISK The Group operates in over 100 Reduction in opportunities in a Monitoring of any incidents of political or social unrest and taking This represents an increasing risk countries including some where particular geography.
compared to 2013, as pockets of G political instability can result in Changes to terms of contracts.
Operations across many industries and countries diversifies the risk profile social and political unrest continue Please refer to page 8 disruption to operations and the Reduction or confiscation of Group of the Group.
Our work with suspension, change or termination assets, potentially without The Group utilises internal and external experts to keep abreast of tax Russian customers is subject to of contracts at short notice.
reasonable recompense: or increase and other legislation.
continuous review to ensure in the Groups effective tax rate.
compliance with EU sanctions The Group receives tax incentives relating to Ukraine.
in certain jurisdictions, resulting in a lower tax charge to the income statement.
There is no guarantee that these reduced rates will continue to be applicable in the future.
ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE Intertek operates many laboratories Failure to manage and control Tracking energy usage and emissions to manage the business This risk remains stable compared CHANGE and offices which create greenhouse emissions and waste impacts the environmental impact is important for remaining compliant, controlling to 2013. gas emissions and waste, and environment and our communities, costs, controlling environmental externalities and satisfying customers The Group continues to improve P consume water.
as well as the Groups reputation.
its data collection to understand Please refer to page 8 In addition, failure to manage the and help mitigate energy usage business environmental impact and reduce its CO e emissions.
2 could result in remediation costs.
LABOUR AND HUMAN RIGHTS Operating in high risk countries Loss of employees.
Respect for human rights is enshrined in regulation in most jurisdictions where This risk remains stable compared known to have poor labour Loss of business.
Intertek operates and underpins the Groups Labour and Human Rights policy.
This is important for compliance, employee relations and employer legitimacy, Please refer to page 8 and is linked to competitiveness in terms of having engaged employees and demonstrating to clients that this is important for running a good business.
CYCLICAL RISK All businesses are subject to cycles, A sustained downturn in the The Group has a diversified service offering to a wide range of industries and This represents an increasing risk with supply and demand fluctuating economic cycle can result in geographies.
This reduces the risk of a downturn in any one sector or region having compared to 2013.
L G I for economic or other factors over a lower return on invested capital, a material impact on the long-term viability of the Group.
Where a downturn does The Groups results are impacted Please refer to page 8 time.
During times of cyclical strength as revenue and margin levels occur, the Group seeks to reduce, where possible, the cost base whilst retaining its by the lower levels of capital this can place the business under come under pressure.
core capability to take advantage of the cyclical upturn when it comes.
expenditure in the energy sector, pressure to meet peaks in demand driven by lower oil prices, but whilst maintaining quality standards, partially offset by the diverse whilst in cyclical downturns there nature of the Group and its ability is a requirement to restructure to flex the cost base.
IT SYSTEMS RISK The Group is dependent on IT systems Damage to reputation leading to loss Information systems policy and governance structure.
This risk remains stable compared for principal business processes.
The of business and media attention.
Disaster recovery and business continuity plans that are constantly tested to 2013.
L I P failure of one of these systems could Cost to rectify.
and improved to minimise the impact if a failure does occur.
While the Groups reliance on IT Please refer to page 8 cause significant operational Loss of systems and data impacts the Global Information Security policies in place.
grows, the implementation of disruption and loss of revenue.
ability to perform services and earn Internal and external audit testing.
regional data centres and revenue in an efficient manner.
supporting expertise ensures robust platforms and recovery processes are in place.
STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 Strategic report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 17 Associated strategic priorities Principal risks and uncertainties continued L Leading positions in core industries C Customer relationships & service IP Investing in people I Industry consolidation & targeted acquisitions G Global network & service expansion P Process efficiency Legal and Regulatory PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2014 UPDATE MAJOR CLAIMS The Group is involved in claims where Financial impact fines by Effective Quality Management Systems and assurance procedures and controls, This risk remains stable compared an event is found or is perceived to be regulators, suspension of including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate.
L C caused by the negligence of the accreditation, compensation.
All significant incidents that could potentially result in a claim against the Group Additional compliance personnel Please refer to page 8 Group.
It could subject the Group to Loss of business are immediately reported to compliance officers and logged in an incident database have been employed in the year claims for personal injury or property contract termination.
so that they can be properly managed.
The Group Head of Legal reports any to increase the bandwidth available damage by customers, subCriminal and civil action.
significant claims to the Audit & Risk Committee.
External legal counsel is appointed to manage contract reviews and contractors, employees or members Damaged reputation.
assist the wider legal framework.
of the public which could lead to the Crisis management policy in place.
Ongoing training and education payment of damages and result Seeking contractual protection from loss or insurance cover for loss where possible.
in respect of contractual liabilities in reputational damage which could being assumed.
in turn lead to a loss of business.
There is a risk that a legal dispute could adversely affect the reputation of the Group and result in significant financial loss.
BUSINESS ETHICS AND BRIBERY The Group operates in countries Legal action and fines against Code of Ethics and training, risk assessments, Audit & Risk Committee review, This risk remains stable compared AND CORRUPTION which are recognised to have higher the Group.
whistle-blowing policy and policies and systems.
to 2013. bribery and corruption risks.
Debarment from being able to The Group employs local people in each country who are aware of local legal Ongoing annual confirmations G IP participate in tenders.
There are also extensive internal compliance and audit ensure that staff verify compliance Please refer to page 8 Loss of reputation.
Expert advice is taken in areas where regulations with the Code of Ethics.
Internal Audit samples that The Group continues to dedicate resources to ensure compliance with the UK contractors have signed the Bribery Act and all other anti-bribery legislation.
During 2014, 256 HR and noncompliance issues were reported through the whistleblowing hotline and other routes.
All were investigated with 31 substantiated and corrective action taken.
Financial FINANCIAL The Group could suffer financial loss Corresponding loss of value and The Group has financial and management controls in place to ensure that the This risk remains stable compared IRREGULARITY RISK either through misappropriation of reputation could result in funding Groups assets are protected from major financial risks.
to 2013. assets or the misrepresentation of being withdrawn or provided at A detailed system of financial reporting is in place to ensure that monthly financial The Group continues to build a G I financial results.
The Group also operates a rigorous programme shared service centre infrastructure Please refer to page 8 Negative market sentiment could of internal audits and management reviews.
Independent external auditors review to ensure appropriate skilled impact the Groups share price.
the Groups half year results and audit the Groups annual financial statements.
personnel review actual and forecast results, as well as improve segregation of duties.
STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18 Strategic report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 19 Intertek Executive Management Team The day-to-day management of the Group is undertaken by the Intertek Executive Management Team.
WOLFHART HAUSER ANN-MICHELE BOWLIN JAY GUTIERREZ JONATHAN LAWRENCE GREGG TIEMANN Chief Executive Officer Chief Information Officer Executive Vice President, Group Vice President, Executive Vice President, Appointed to the Board as Chief Joined Intertek in 2009.
Ann-Michele Commodities Human Resources Consumer Goods, Executive Officer in March 2005 after was appointed Chief Information Officer Joined Intertek in 1997.
Until the end Joined Intertek in 2005.
Jonathan has Commercial & Electrical serving as a Non-Executive Director since in September 2010.
She joined Intertek of 2014, Jay had responsibility for the responsibility for Human Resources.
Wolfhart was previously from Ernst & Young consulting where Commodities division.
Previously, he was also directs Sustainability, Health & Safety responsibility for the Consumer Goods Chief Executive Officer and President she led shared services transformation Vice President for the Oil, Chemical & and internal communications.
Jonathan and Commercial & Electrical divisions.
of TV Sddeutschland AG for four programmes in industries including Agri division in the Americas.
Jay has joined Intertek from Bureau Veritas Prior to assuming his current role, Gregg years and Chief Executive Officer of oil & gas, manufacturing and services.
decided to retire from Intertek, later in where he was Group Vice President was President of Interteks Commercial TV Product Services for 10 years.
Prior to Ernst & Young, she held 2015, and handed his responsibility for Human Resources.
Prior to moving into & Electrical division, having started as Starting his career with various research leadership and operations roles in the Cargo & Analytical Assessment business services in the TIC sector, General Manager of the Los Angeles activities, he went on to establish and technology, manufacturing and services.
businesses to Manfred Klepacz during Jonathan held HR, Quality Management laboratory in 1993.
Before joining lead a broad range of successful the course of 2014. and operations roles in the automotive, Intertek, Gregg worked in sales and international service industry businesses.
chemicals and general manufacturing marketing for the software industry.
He has held several non-executive board sectors, starting his career as a Chartered director and chairman roles in a variety Engineer in the machinery industry.
EDWARD LEIGH STEFAN BUTZ MANFRED KLEPACZ JULIA THOMAS Chief Financial Officer Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Vice President, Joined Intertek in 2013.
Appointed Industry & Assurance, Cargo & Analytical Assessment Corporate Development to the Board as Chief Financial Officer Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Joined Intertek in 2014.
Manfred has Joined Intertek in 2013.
Edward is responsible Joined Intertek in 2008.
Stefan responsibility for the Global Cargo & responsibility for Interteks acquisition for the Groups global Finance, Tax, has responsibility for the Industry Analytical Assessment businesses.
and disposal activities, and oversees Treasury, Internal Audit and Company & Assurance and Chemicals & Manfred has a long international career Group Marketing.
He joined in the chemicals and industrial products Intertek, Julia spent 12 years in Intertek from Dixons Retail Plc, where he Intertek from TV SD, where sectors and was most recently Chief investment banking with J. P. Morgan held several senior financial management he held the position of CEO Americas, Executive of Al Rajhi Industrial Holdings Cazenove and Rothschild, focusing positions.
Prior to that he held a variety with an earlier role as Head of based in Saudi Arabia.
He has previously primarily on mergers and acquisitions.
of commercial finance roles at Procter Corporate Development.
Prior to this held international roles in general & Gamble.
He has over twenty years he was a Strategy Consultant with management and business development experience in driving financial Accenture Germany.
with the LyondellBasell and BASF groups transformation and business performance in the USA, Singapore and Australia.
Edward is a Chartered Management Accountant.
STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20 Strategic report Operating review INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 21 Industry & Assurance The Industry & Assurance division with good growth in Food, Agriculture and Business Assurance, has been impacted by the decision to exit low value contracts and lower levels of capital expenditure from the oil and gas industry.
State-of-the-art OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2014 the long-term increase in energy demand Case study: Non-Destructive Testing INDUSTRY & ASSURANCE IN BRIEF equipment is being Total revenue was 642.9m, down 3% at will drive revenue growth in Interteks Key business lines New immersion ultrasonic constant exchange rates.
This was primarily services in these markets.
used to inspect key Industry Services due to our decision to exit certain low value equipment at Intertek In April, Intertek acquired INSPEC.
Business Assurance contracts, which negatively impacted the components used in This business supplements Interteks Intertek has invested significantly in nonFood & Agriculture Services divisions revenue by 6%, as well as delays destructive testing capabilities with new acquisition of GXT in the US in 2013, Our services to the commencement of planned oil and aircraft manufacture.
state-of-the-art immersion ultrasonic and the acquisition in 2012 of NDT Services Asset Integrity Management gas infrastructure capital project work by techniques and equipment, demonstrating in the UK to create three key regional hubs Exploration & Production our customers.
At actual exchange rates our on-going commitment to providing as we develop our global opex services Technical Inspection revenue was 9% lower.
a competitive service to aerospace clients.
The Australian-based Auditing NDT business of AIS was acquired in Total adjusted operating profit at constant As part of the Companys expansion of its Certification February 2015 for 6.5m in furtherance rates was 15% lower to 64.5m with ultrasonic testing services, new equipment Consulting of this strategy.
a 140 basis point reduction in margin.
is being used to inspect the rectilinear discs Training At actual rates operating profit was 22% used in aircraft manufacture.
This utilises Staffing Our Business Assurance business line grew the latest technology in fully automated lower.
The reduction in underlying margin strongly in the year with good demand inspection systems and provides excellent FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2014 is due to the revenue decline in our for second-party auditing services from resolution, allowing for real-time post-scan Industry Services business.
Change at The largest proportion of the Industry & new services in 2014 including ISO 22301 at actual constant m rates rates Assurance division is our Industry Services Business Continuity: ISO 55001 Asset For many years Intertek has been using Revenue 642.9 9.4 % 2.8 % immersion ultrasonic testing to inspect business which provides services to the Integrity Management: EDGE Certification Adjusted operating profit 64.5 21.5 % 14.5 % components for aerospace companies energy infrastructure sector encompassing Economic Dividend for Gender Equality : Adjusted operating margin 10.0% 160 bps 140 bps and their supply chain.
Our non-destructive our Technical Inspection, Technical Staffing, and Private Security Certification.
Growing testing capabilities can detect flaws or Asset Integrity, Consulting & Training and consumer demand, as well as increasing irregularities in components to the most Exploration & Production services.
In 2014, environmental regulations in developed Revenue at actual rates m stringent inspection standards in compliance we experienced customers delaying the and emerging markets, are placing with Civil Aviation Authority and Federal commencement of planned oil and gas an increasing emphasis on quality Aviation Administration regulations.
9.4 % capital projects work which affected our environmental and energy management Technical Inspection and Technical Staffing systems for our customers, so that supply 2014 642.9 services.
Revenue was also reduced by chain traceability exists.
2013 709.3 40m from our strategic decision at the Growing consumer demand for quality end of 2013 to exit certain low-value and safety in developing and developed Technical Staffing service contracts.
Average employees economies, increasing regulations, and public food scandals, are all driving growth We have begun to expand our Industry 11.8% in the food testing market.
Good growth Services activities into processing, power, in Food services during the year was driven infrastructure, aerospace and other utility 2014 9,690 by expansion of food safety needs and industries, as well as into oil and gas labelling in Germany, Taiwan and China.
maintenance driven services in order to 2013 8,668 New EU food labelling regulations balance our leading position and exposure commenced and the US FDA introduced in the oil and gas capital projects market.
Revenue by key business a proposal for new nutritional labelling We saw solid growth in 2014 in our requirements.
Our Agriculture business business lines which predominantly grew strongly with good harvests in North support the maintenance of our customers 14% 71% America and expanding customer infrastructure from their operational demands in South America.
We expect expenditure opex and where these trends to support good growth environmental and integrity concerns 15% in our Food & Agriculture and Business related to infrastructure also remain Assurance business lines going forward.
high on the public agenda.
Looking into 2015, we anticipate that We continued to invest in expanding further reductions in planned energy our global food services capabilities, and capital expenditure by our customers in completed two bolt-on acquisitions for response to the current low oil price will a total consideration of 3.3m in the year, Industry Services Business Assurance continue to impact revenue.
However we and 3m organic investment in food labs.
Food & Agriculture expect that, as oil markets recover and we diversify our infrastructure services, STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22 Strategic report Operating review INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 23 Commodities The Commodities division has grown revenue and margin in its Cargo business line, broadly offsetting the weaker conditions in the Minerals business.
OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2014 Revenue in our Minerals business line is Case study: Crude Oil Rail Car Services COMMODITIES IN BRIEF Total revenue was 542.4m, down driven by clients exploration, production Key business lines Intertek expands crude-by- 1% at constant exchange rates, primarily and trading activity of mineral ores Cargo due to the decline in Minerals revenues around the Pacific Rim, which declined rail testing capabilities Analytical Assessment following the global slowdown in the in 2014.
This was due to the continuing Intertek provides a range of physical Government & Trade Services sector and the impact of the Indonesian reduction in exploration activity by our property testing services required to comply Minerals export ban in early 2014.
At actual customers and the effects of the with a United States Government order Our services exchange rates total revenue was introduction of an ore export ban mandating proper testing and classification Analytical assessment 8% lower.
We have focused of crude oil before the oil is loaded onto Certification on aligning our global footprint to the railcar shipments for delivery to oil terminals Total adjusted operating profit at and refineries.
Inspection changing minerals markets through an constant rates was 65.5m, flat versus Consulting extensive restructuring during 2014. prior year, with a 10 basis point increase As per the Department of Transportations We closed a number of Minerals sites, FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2014 in margin supported by restructuring DOT Emergency Order, the crude oil tests exited businesses in India and Brazil activities.
Total adjusted operating profit conducted determine key crude oil physical Change and reduced our employee base Change at properties, including initial boiling point, was down 6% at actual rates.
Our production-related at actual constant flash point, vapour pressure, and hydrogen m rates rates Demand for our oil and gas Cargo and testing services grew in 2014. sulfide content, among other factors.
Revenue 542.4 7.5 % 0.5 % Analytical Assessment inspection and This was primarily in the iron ore sector, Adjusted operating profit 65.5 6.4 % 0.2 % testing business lines is driven by the as we developed our mine-site services Intertek provides the appropriate testing Adjusted operating margin 12.1% 20bps 10bps end-demand for these products, as we and capabilities: however this did not services, and offers guidance regarding the DOT Order.
Testing helps to ensure that test and verify the downstream trade offset the other declines.
crude oil for shipment by rail has been and transport of a wide range of raw Revenue growth in our Government & classified, described, and packaged in and processed products.
Revenue grew Trade Services GTS business was lower accordance with the appropriate Hazardous in 2014 with the strongest growth in the in 2014 due to the reduction in scope of Materials Regulations.
In addition, we Middle East while Europe remained flat.
Revenue at actual rates m our Conformity Assessment Programme provide liquid meter proving and witnessing A weakening oil price in 2014 has not services in the shale fields.
with Saudi Arabia as reported in last affected the business as our work is 7.5 % years Annual Report.
In the final quarter driven by throughput of downstream of 2014 we saw the business return to Intertek is equipped volumes which remained positive.
By 2014 542.4 good growth after annualising this effect restructuring our activities in Europe we which commenced in the fourth quarter with the specified steel 2013 586.6 increased the business lines margin in of 2013.
Further planned restructuring and aluminium test restructuring of our GTS sales operations in 2015 will ensure this business remains Average employees to support growth and operational aligned to shifting refining and trade specimens required efficiency with Regional Operations flow patterns by our customers.
0.2 % Centres in Manila and Johannesburg.
for United Nations We also created a new organisational The increasing focus on environmental 2014 10,252 model to better align the business to testing in some emerging markets driven corrosion testing.
These by regulation, combined with the growth 2013 10,268 activities supported an improved in Liquefied Natural Gas LNG and operating margin in the second half unconventional shale gas testing and Revenue by key business of 2014.
Looking forward we see calibration-based work, has meant that many countries in Africa improving Intertek is investing in new data-based their conformity assessment structures technologies and increased use of 13% 72% which creates further opportunities automation in our laboratories, such for our services.
We see opportunities this year to increase our outsourced 15% laboratory work for oil customers and refineries looking to manage costs in response to oil price pressures.
Intertek has a leading track record in outsourced services and is well placed to assist customers with shorter test turnaround Cargo & Analytical Assessment Minerals times and higher levels of knowledge Government & Trade Services and test quality.
STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24 Strategic report Operating review INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 25 Consumer Goods The Consumer Goods division has continued to grow well, with strong growth in emerging markets.
OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2014 US further developed their chemical Case study: Textiles & Apparel CONSUMER GOODS IN BRIEF Total revenue was 375.3m, up 4% regulations which are creating customer Key business lines Intertek launches first ever at constant exchange rates.
At actual demand for additional evaluations of Softlines exchange rates total revenue was softlines and other products.
mobile textile testing lab Hardlines 2% lower.
Revenue growth in Hardlines was flat Intertek launched the first ever textile Product Intelligence testing lab on wheels in Mumbai, serving in 2014, primarily from lower demand Auditing Total adjusted operating profit was retailers, brands and manufacturers of for European Union toy standard EN 71 124.8m, up 6% at constant exchange Our services adult apparel, childrens apparel, fashion testing in the second half which had rates with 60 basis points of margin Testing accessories and household textiles to ensure experienced strong growth since May improvement, reflecting the completion Inspection that their products meet safety, regulatory, 2013 when the new regulations were of prior year investment in Tradegood quality and performance standards.
China and Hong Kong were and good growth in the higher margin Auditing the most affected geographies.
Total adjusted This is a unique concept that helps our retail Advisory services ahead, markets such as India, Mexico, operating profit was flat at actual customers realise testing cost efficiencies Quality Assurance Vietnam and Turkey, are showing good exchange rates.
and also provide access to quality testing of Hazardous substance testing growth potential as we expect the their products at their doorstep.
The homeOur Softlines revenues grew strongly delivered support helps manufacturers sourcing trend in hardlines product FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2014 in 2014 with good performances across improve competencies and also enhance categories to diversify away from China Change all geographic regions in response to acceptability with global brands.
Change at to alternate manufacturing countries.
market demand and as new organic at actual constant Most emerging markets are requiring m rates rates capacity expansion came on-line.
higher quality products across a range Revenue 375.3 1.6 % 4.4% Growth was strongest in emerging of categories for the domestic market Adjusted operating profit 124.8 0.2% 6.1% softlines sourcing markets, such as India, as a result of consumer expectations Adjusted operating margin 33.3% 60bps 60bps Vietnam and Bangladesh, where and we expect this trend to also support Case study: Hardlines increasing numbers of Western retailers growth in our business.
are asking Intertek to support them as Intertek opens first toy Revenue at actual rates m they continue to diversify their sourcing Our Product Intelligence services for testing laboratory in India from China to optimise their costs.
retailers include product benchmark 1.6 % Intertek expanded its toy testing capabilities During the year we expanded our leather testing and consultation services that This is a unique in India with the opening of an NABL - and footwear testing facilities in India focus on product performance 2014 375.3 accredited laboratory in Gurgaon, to and chemical testing capacity in other improvement.
These services help concept that helps our support toy retailers, brands and 2013 381.3 Asian countries and Mexico.
The fabric customers to design better, safer manufacturers, in meeting stringent manufacturing market remains healthy in products and to reduce the incidence retail customers realise regulatory standards and requirements China where Intertek supports customers of defects and returns from the outset Average employees established by the industry and reducing in evaluating the fabric before it is of the product development process.
risks caused by defective toys.
shipped to garment manufacturing This market developed positively in 2014 3.7% Additional services include design countries.
Chemical testing of textiles with more North American retailers evaluation, mock-up sample studies, initial remains in demand by our customers.
developing own-label products and 2014 10,789 product specification analysis, and product Regulations in the US and industry seeking third-party support.
In addition, review: all of which help determine possible 2013 10,409 initiatives are driving greater scrutiny retailers are outsourcing the monitoring risk factors before a clients product is of the presence of hazardous chemicals of product defects and returns to better placed on store shelves and into the hands Revenue by key business in clothing and the environmental impact identify product categories with inherent of consumers.
quality issues, while others are seeking 1% National Accreditation Board for Testing outsourced personnel to fill quality and Calibration Laboratories.
Luxury softlines brands continue to 4% control oversight functions on 61% see emerging markets as a growth area sourced products.
for both production and for sales.
Several Looking forward we consider that countries have exacting technical 34% customers shifting sourcing patterns, regulations or import regulations which product variety, increasing chemical require testing to be conducted prior regulations and import standards and to import, such as the SNI clothing mark the demand for higher quality products Indonesian National Standard.
and regulatory developments in Western Meanwhile the quality of domestic and developing markets will drive good softlines brands is improving as they growth in demand for our Consumer aim to compete with global brands Softlines Hardlines Goods business lines.
on design, quality and price and this Product Intelligence Auditing is helping to expand the market for Interteks services.
Various states in the STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26 Strategic report Operating review INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 27 Commercial & Electrical The Commercial & Electrical division has grown revenue strongly with good growth across Electrical, Transportation Technologies and Building Products.
OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2014 In Transportation Technologies revenue Case study: Transportation Technologies COMMERCIAL & ELECTRICAL Total revenue was 359.6m, up 14% grew strongly in 2014.
Further IN BRIEF PLUGLESS L2 system is first at constant exchange rates, driven by investment in the US has expanded Key business lines strong growth in the Transportation capacity to meet new 2017 industry of its kind to receive ETL Electrical & Wireless Technologies business line and the 2013 standards and increasingly complex certification Transportation Technologies acquisition of ATI in Building Products.
US Environmental Building Products The PLUGLESS L2 System, manufactured At actual exchange rates revenue growth Protection Agency regulations are also by Evatran, is the first wireless electric Our services was 6%.
driving customers to research and assess vehicle EV charging system to carry Safety testing new component and vehicle performance the prestigious ETL certification mark.
Total adjusted operating profit was Performance testing towards the delivery of lower emissions 51.0m, up 10% at constant exchange Certification and fuel economy standards that will The system is available for both the rates with the total adjusted operating Consulting take effect in future.
Chevrolet Volt and Nissan Leaf vehicles, margin decreasing 40 basis points and has been in use with trial partners, FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2014 at constant exchange rates.
Total In 2014 we completed the successful including Google, Hertz and Duke Energy, adjusted operating profit was up 3% integration of ATI which has helped Change for more than two years, logging over Change at at actual rates.
increase Building Products revenue 16,000 charging hours without a single at actual constant in North America.
The business line m rates rates safety incident.
Revenue growth in the Electrical business is expanding its global footprint into Revenue 359.6 6.3% 13.9% line was driven by demand for China as the emerging middle-class The system charges the EV as quickly as Adjusted operating profit 51.0 3.4% 10.4% performance testing of new technologies a plug-in Level 2 240v station, allowing is demanding an increase in safety Adjusted operating margin 14.2% 40 bps 40 bps being produced in China, Hong Kong, the driver to continue using all standard and security in their buildings and South Korea and the UK.
The business EV charging features such as charge timers building owners have an increased lines margin in 2014 was below the prior and remote status checks, and even allows desire to have longer lasting and more year following new laboratory the driver to continue plugging-in where energy efficient buildings.
investments made in 2013 which are wireless charging is not available.
Looking ahead, regulatory and industry Revenue at actual rates m Consumers can see the ETL certification standards for wireless products are Key customers are more concerned than We certified the first mark on the PLUGLESS L2 system and evolving to include new technologies, 6.3% ever with supply chain integrity, especially feel confident that the product has met such as Voice Over LTE VoLTE, wearable advanced wireless those who rely on multiple Original the relevant safety standards and performs products and Smart Grid technology.
Intertek supports Customers are developing a wider range charging technology this integrity by reducing overall risk for 2013 338.4 of internet-enabled products and customers through a process of technologies to connect products to each for electric vehicles.
qualifying suppliers, validating other, to consumers, to homes, to the Average employees component choices and benchmarking Smart Grid, also known as The Internet options within the supply chain.
Emerging markets are 12.1% their quickly expanding infrastructure, adopting and enforcing the existing the Middle East and India have become requirements of more mature markets.
2014 5,442 a strategic imperative to many of our Global brands are balancing the need for ETL Certification mark customers, while demand in Latin 2013 4,853 quality and reliability with the cost of America for both safe and energy The history of the ETL Mark speed to market, while new entrants are efficient products has steadily began when Thomas Edison Revenue by key business gaining market share through low cost increased alongside the increase founded the first electrical devices.
Performance testing and in local regulations.
testing laboratory in 1896, benchmarking for devices and software soon after to be named 19% 68% Wireless revenue declined in 2014 due applications provides invaluable Electrical Testing Laboratory to the ending of a global customer information to manufacturers and ETL, to evaluate the contract in the first half of the year which retailers who want to ensure a quality quality and safety of his 13% also impacted the business margin.
user experience as well as protect their own inventions.
Today, Demand for mobile device testing as brands.
All of these developments billions of ETL Marks appear on products across the globe a whole remained very strong driven provide Intertek with the opportunity as evidence of compliance by North America and global customers for long-term revenue growth.
to product safety standards, product variety developments and including household performance testing needs.
appliances, consumer Electrical & Wireless Building Products electronics, medical Transportation Technologies devices, life safety and security products, among many others.
