Risk factors We describe below those risks and uncertainties that we Continuing political and social unrest in the Middle East may consider to be significant because their outcome may have have a negative impact on existing and future opportunities a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial in the region.
condition, results of operations or cash flows.
We have not listed Changes in commodity prices may impact demand these risks and uncertainties in any particular order of priority.
Other risks and uncertainties that are currently unknown to us, Commodity prices are volatile and are influenced by a or that are known but not considered by us to be significant, number of external factors, including the supply of and could also have such material adverse effects.
demand for commodities, speculative activities by market Adverse global economic conditions or other participants, global political and economic conditions, the macro-economic developments in the geographic levels of production in major commodity-producing countries regions and markets in which we operate.
and the costs of exploring for, developing, producing and We expect to derive the majority of our revenue from the Oil & delivering the commodities.
Fluctuations in commodity prices Gas market.
Combining Foster Wheelers midand downstream may impact customer spending on capital investment and capabilities with our existing upstream capabilities has resulted asset maintenance and may result in delays or cancellation in greater exposure across the Oil & Gas value chain.
Oil & Gas companies are reducing their capital expenditure A sustained reduction in oil prices may adversely impact in response to market and investor pressure.
investment in both oil and gas production by driving In our other markets, such as Clean Energy, spending international oil companies to focus on ways in which they by customers will depend on cost developments for new can be more capital efficient.
Such companies may choose to technologies, support for government initiatives and the reduce overall levels of upstream capital expenditure and look availability of funding for projects: whilst demand for raw at options to improve the efficiency of operating expenditure.
materials from China may have a significant impact on Mining Fluctuations in the price of metals and minerals, such as gold projects.
We have experienced increased competition for new and copper, have also impacted mining customer spending.
contracts and some customers have requested different, less Such declines in the levels of customer spending as a result favourable contract terms due to these conditions.
of a reduction in commodity prices could negatively impact We expect to derive the majority of our revenue from Europe, our operations.
Any delay, deferral or size reduction in our the US and Canada and will be exposed to the impact of customers projects may restrict the opportunities available global and local economic conditions affecting these regions.
to us for organic growth and the achievement of our targets.
We may, therefore, be adversely affected if conditions in these Expected cost, revenue and tax synergies in relation regions deteriorate.
to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler may not be achieved Adverse or volatile economic conditions may impact liquidity or may be materially lower than has been estimated.
and the availability of credit, as well as the demands of We expect that the acquisition of Foster Wheeler will produce investors for greater returns in these markets, which may significant cost and revenue synergies.
We estimate that the in turn influence customer spending on capital investment acquisition will create cost synergies of at least US$125m per and or asset maintenance and may result in delays or year, principally from overhead reduction and the removal of cancellation of projects.
other administrative cost duplication, with the full benefit of the cost synergies estimated to be realised by the third year If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic after completion of the acquisition.
We also believe that the and political conditions affecting the jurisdictions and markets acquisition will result in a number of operational benefits, such in which we operate, we may be unable to effectively plan for as greater scale in Latin America, the Middle East and Asia and or respond to those changes.
cross-selling opportunities to a combined customer base.
If we Risks associated with operating in emerging markets.
are not able to successfully complete the integration process We conduct a portion of our operations in emerging markets.
in an efficient and effective manner, the anticipated synergies Going forward, we expect that our operations will be more heavily may not be realised fully, or at all, or may take longer to realise focused in the Middle East, as well as in other emerging markets, than expected.
such as Latin America and parts of Asia.
Our operations in these Furthermore, any expected revenue synergies may not markets are exposed to risks that may not be encountered in materialise, or may be offset by competing commercial countries with more well-established economic and political considerations arising out of the acquisition: for example, systems, which include, to a greater or lesser extent, changes in our existing business and Foster Wheeler may act for international governmental regulations, trade restrictions and competing private sector customers which, for confidentiality laws, tariffs and other barriers, the potential for nationalisation reasons, may not wish to award work to businesses that also of enterprises or government policies favouring local production, provide services to their competitors.
renegotiation or nullification of existing agreements, fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, the introduction of exchange controls and other restrictions by foreign governments, timeliness of client payments, differing protections for intellectual property and enforcement thereof and divergent environmental laws and regulations.
Amec Foster Wheeler 164 Annual report and accounts 2014 Failure to meet customer expectations on project delivery Integration of Foster Wheeler involves numerous challenges that may be more time-consuming and costly could result in damage to our reputation and or loss of repeat business and potentially lead to litigation.
Our future success may, in part, depend upon our ability Many of the contracts which we enter into with our customers are long term and may contain liquidated damages clauses to integrate Foster Wheeler without disruption to our existing businesses.
The integration process is complex and will require relating to on-time delivery and or liquidated damages relating to performance and or liability in respect of unliquidated the co-ordinated efforts of our management teams and employees.
Integration may take longer than expected, may damages.
A number of factors including failure to follow best practice guidelines could mean that projects are not prove more difficult than currently anticipated or unanticipated difficulties may arise, thereby posing a risk to our profitability.
delivered to time, cost, quality or appropriate health, safety and environmental standards and therefore do not meet customer A significant amount of managements time will be required to expectations or the expectations of the relevant third party.
achieve the integration of the businesses, and this may distract Any failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations the management team from running our ongoing businesses.
could subject us to damages and or reduce our margins In addition, it is possible that certain key personnel may leave on these contracts.
Failure to meet customer expectations during the integration period and the management team may may also result in disputes or litigation, cancelled contracts, be required to spend additional time and money hiring suitable additional costs incurred in excess of current contract replacements.
provisions, or back-charges for alleged breaches of warranty We currently estimate that we will incur approximately and other contract commitments.
US$75m to US$90m in costs over the first two years following Damage to reputation or loss of repeat business as a result completion of the acquisition in order to achieve the expected of our failure to meet our customers expectations could cost synergies.
However, the costs of achieving the expected negatively impact our ability to win new contracts in the future.
synergies may be higher than we anticipate or there may be significant additional unanticipated costs that we may not be Long-term contracts may be subject to early termination, able to recover.
We enter into long-term contracts with customers, which are Adverse changes in macro-economic, market and other performed over a period that may exceed two years.
Such conditions could result in the impairment of goodwill and contracts may be terminated earlier than expected, either within other intangible assets.
the relevant notice periods or upon default or non-performance Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more often if by ourselves which may result in additional costs if adequate an event or circumstance indicates that it may be impaired.
Other intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever there is an indication of impairment.
An impairment test is an Projects included in our order book may be delayed assessment of whether the carrying amount of an asset can be or cancelled.
supported by the net present value of the future cash flows that Changes in project scope or schedule create uncertainty as are expected to be derived from it, either by use in the business to the portion of orders that can be performed or the amount or from sale.
An impairment test requires management to make of revenue that will be recognised in any given year.
Customers certain critical assumptions including future sales volumes, may also not be able to secure the necessary financing and profit margins and long-term growth rates and to determine an approvals for their projects, which could result in a delay or appropriate discount rate to apply to the estimated cash flows.
cancellation of the proposed project.
Even where a project Other factors that may affect revenue and profitability for proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that contracted parties example, intensifying competition, pricing pressures, regulatory may default and fail to pay amounts owed.
Furthermore, changes and other industry developments are also considered.
fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect the value Discount rates are based on current yields on government of the order book.
As a result of these uncertainties, the order bonds, the level of which may change substantially from period book may not be a reliable indicator of our future revenue to period and which may be affected by political and economic or profitability.
developments which are beyond our control.
An impairment loss may be recognised in the future if there is an adverse change in the assumptions underlying the estimated future cash flows or in the discount rates applied to those cash flows.
Whilst an impairment loss does not in itself affect cash flows, it may be an indication that future cash flows will decline.
Moreover, no assurance can be given that any future impairment loss would not affect the Companys distributable reserves and, therefore, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 165 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Risk factors continued Failure to comply with health, safety and environmental Lump-sum contracts are more subject to unanticipated modifications, technical problems and delays.
laws may result in losses.
We are subject to numerous laws, regulations and policies Prior to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, we usually entered into reimbursable contracts, but in limited circumstances, concerning the protection of health, safety and the environment, such as those concerning the use and production where the customer and project are well known to us, such as with work for the US federal government or in the Clean of waste and by-products considered to be hazardous under the environmental laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which Energy business in the Americas or on occasion in other AMEC businesses, we have entered into lump-sum contracts in which we operate, including nuclear and other low-level radioactive materials, the remediation of environmental contamination, we contracted based upon specifications and other design information provided by the customer.
waste water and waste disposal or that otherwise relate to environmental protection.
Failure to comply with such laws, Comparatively, Foster Wheeler historically entered into a higher regulations and policies and non-compliance could potentially percentage of lump-sum contracts, including lump-sum turnkey lead to reputational damage, fines, litigation and claims for contracts and other fixed-price contracts, mostly within its compensation, which can be substantial.
Such failure may also Global Power Group.
result in the withdrawal or suspension of licences and permits Lump-sum contracts carry different risks than reimbursable or we may be forced to undertake extensive remedial clean-up action or to pay for government-ordered remedial clean-up contracts because the selling price of the project is agreed based on estimates at the time the contractor enters into the actions, even in cases where such hazards have been caused contract and the contractor assumes a greater proportion of by third parties.
the risks associated with completing the project.
In particular, We may be subject to liabilities for environmental in the EPC contracts in which we engage, the contractor often contamination as an owner or operator or former owner assumes the risk of variations from original contract projections or operator of a facility, or as a generator of hazardous due to engineering design changes or project modifications substances, without regard to negligence or fault.
Our Clean that the contractor has to make after submitting its tender.
Energy business is involved in providing services to operators There may also be unanticipated technical problems with and utilities in the full lifecycle of nuclear energy, from new the equipment being supplied or developed by the contractor, build and reactor support to nuclear decommissioning and the changes in the costs of components, materials or labour, management of radioactive and hazardous materials.
We could, difficulties in obtaining required governmental permits or therefore, be exposed to risks associated with the nuclear approvals, changes in labour conditions and other unexpected industry and the impact of nuclear regulation.
As part of any delays or costs.
We may incur a loss on contracts that are contract involving work or services at or in connection with subject to these amendments if we are unable to obtain a nuclear facilities, we typically require an indemnity in respect variation of the contract, or are not sufficiently reimbursed for of nuclear liability from our customers.
Where an indemnity is the costs incurred as a result of these changes or modifications.
not provided, international nuclear conventions, such as the We may lose key management or face difficulty in Paris Convention and the Vienna Convention, protect us against attracting and retaining appropriately skilled personnel.
liability, provided that our contracting entity is registered in a Our future success is dependent on our ability to attract and country which is a signatory of the relevant convention.
In cases retain key management, qualified engineering managers and where our customers are not prepared to provide an indemnity lead engineers, project managers and other highly skilled of this nature and no protection is provided by international personnel.
It will be particularly important for us to retain the convention, we may be required to bear the cost of such expertise of Foster Wheelers management and personnel in liabilities in addition to any reputational damage.
markets and jurisdictions in which we were not involved before Changes in environmental laws and regulations, remediation the acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
Many of the markets in which obligations, enforcement actions, stricter interpretations of we operate continue to experience a scarcity of resources for existing requirements, future discovery of contamination or key positions and we face intense competition for suitably claims for damages to persons, property, natural resources qualified and experienced personnel from other companies or the environment could result in unanticipated material and organisations.
While we may have appropriately qualified and experienced personnel, we may find it difficult to move them between projects and regions and this could impact our ability to meet obligations under our contracts.
Senior management departures or prolonged absences, key personnel shortages and difficulties in relocating our personnel could adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy and manage our operations efficiently.
Amec Foster Wheeler 166 Annual report and accounts 2014 We have developed a plan to harmonise Foster Wheelers IT A major safety incident could lead to reputational damage and increase potential liabilities.
As a result of the differences between our existing IT systems and Foster Wheelers, there can be no We are involved in activities and environments that can be dangerous and that have the potential to cause serious injury assurance that this harmonisation will be successful.
We may experience failures in either Foster Wheelers IT systems or our to personnel or damage to property or the environment.
Our projects are increasingly complex and place employees and own as we work to integrate them.
others near large equipment, dangerous processes, highly Failure to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulated materials or in remote and challenging environments.
regulations, economic sanction programmes or other laws We are responsible for the safety and security of our employees and regulations may result in us becoming subject to fines travelling on company business and while working at project or penalties and the disruption of our business activities.
sites and of third-party personnel while working at project Many of the countries in which we operate have anti-corruption sites under our supervision, and, accordingly, must implement laws and regulations that restrict the offer or payment of safety procedures.
anything of value to government officials or other persons with Failure to comply with such procedures may cause us to be the intent of gaining business or favourable government action.
subject to losses and liability under client contracts or statutory We are subject to these laws and regulations, including the regulations.
Any failure in health and safety performance US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 and the UK Bribery which results in a major or significant health and safety or Act 2010.
Additionally, economic sanctions programmes, environmental incident is likely to result in additional costs including those administered by the United Nations, the EU in terms of potential liabilities or remediation costs.
Such and the US Office of Foreign Asset Control, restrict our business failure could generate significant adverse publicity, resulting dealings with certain sanctioned countries.
Many of these in employee turnover and damage to our reputation which regulations and sanctions programmes establish recordmay adversely impact our ability to win new business.
Failure or security breaches of our IT systems and or data We are exposed to the risk of violating anti-corruption laws security or failure to effectively integrate Foster Wheelers and sanctions regulations applicable in those countries where IT systems may result in losses.
we, our partners or agents operate.
Some of the locations in We are dependent on the efficient operation of our IT systems.
which we currently operate lack a developed legal system, have Such systems may fail and or sensitive data held by them high levels of corruption and have proven to be susceptible to may be lost.
Information and communication systems are, the occurrence of fraud.
Whilst we mandate compliance with by their nature, susceptible to internal and external security relevant policies, laws and regulations including anti-corruption breaches, including computer hacker and cyber terrorist laws and have implemented procedures and controls to breaches, employee wilful breaches and the risk of employees monitor internal and external compliance, there can be no succumbing to criminal scamming from external sources, and assurance that our policies and procedures will be followed can fail or become unavailable for a significant period of time.
at all times or will effectively detect and or prevent violations A significant performance failure of the Groups IT systems of the applicable laws or other fraudulent activity by one or could lead to loss of control over critical business, project more of our employees, consultants, subcontractors, agents information and or systems such as design tools, contract or partners.
costs, invoicing, payroll management and or internal reporting, Violations of anti-corruption laws and sanctions regulations resulting in an adverse impact on the ability to operate are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of effectively or to fulfil contractual obligations.
Such failure may, export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from in turn, lead to a loss of customers, revenue and profitability government contracts and termination of existing contracts and the incurring of significant remedial costs.
and revocations or restrictions of licences, as well as criminal Our operations are especially dependent on the use of internal fines and imprisonment.
In addition, any major violations of data and customer data.
We have incurred, and will continue to policy, law or regulation including instances of fraud could incur, expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security have a significant impact on our reputation and consequently standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry on our ability to win future business.
standards or contractual obligations relating to the collection, use and security of personal information data.
Failure to comply with such data privacy laws and regulations may result in fines, penalties, claims and reputational damage.
Additionally, if data security controls fail, there is a risk that we will unintentionally disclose protected or sensitive data, including important intellectual property, which could lead to the violation of client confidentiality agreements, reputational harm and the loss of critical data.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 167 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Risk factors continued It is possible that the actual number of future claims brought Funding risks in relation to defined benefit pension schemes.
against us and the cost of resolving pending and future claims could be substantially higher than expected due to a number We operate a number of defined benefit pension schemes, where careful judgement is required in determining the of factors, which include: assumptions for future salary and pension increases for those X an increase in the rate at which new claims are filed and plans that are not frozen, discount rate, inflation, investment increases in the number of new claimants: return and member longevity.
We expect to continue to operate these schemes, although the most significant schemes are now X adverse changes in the mix of diseases alleged to be suffered closed to new entrants.
Based on our current assumptions, by the claimants: we expect that we will be able to fund these pension schemes X adverse changes in the mix of claimants making allegations: without seeking recourse to additional external financing.
Actual outcomes could, however, differ from our assumptions.
X increases in indemnity payments or defence costs associated For example, a prolonged period of lower than expected asset with asbestos-related claims: returns and or unexpected increases in longevity could create X decreases in the proportion of claims dismissed with zero or worsen a funding shortfall on one or more of the schemes, indemnity payments: in which circumstances we may agree or be required to make additional cash contributions to the schemes to eliminate the X indemnity payments being required to be made sooner than funding shortfall.
If significant, such additional contributions expected: may constrain our ability to invest in acquisitions or undertake X adverse fluctuations in the discount rate e. g. the 30-year US capital expenditure, thereby adversely impacting our growth Treasury rate used to discount the provision for asbestosand profitability.
related claims and related insurance recoveries: If the actual number and or cost to the Group of resolving X adverse changes to forecasting, estimation or valuation asbestos-related claims is higher than expected, there assumptions or methodologies whether related to potential may be an adverse effect on our cash flows and our results liabilities, claims and or associated costs : to the extent that the additional cost is not covered by insurance, or expected insurance recoveries are not, X payment of damages in amounts greater than expected: and in fact, realised.
X adverse changes in legislative or judicial standards governing Certain of the Companys subsidiaries have been named the filing, handling or resolution of asbestos-related claims.
as defendants in numerous lawsuits and out-of-court administrative claims in which the plaintiffs claim damages for Whilst certain of these claims are covered by insurance, the alleged bodily injury or death arising from exposure to asbestos settlements that we made with our insurers were sometimes primarily in connection with asbestos placed by others on for fixed monetary amounts and or provide cover only for steam-generating units and auxiliary equipment assembled, claims made before a specified future date.
Accordingly, a installed and or sold, by those subsidiaries.
In the US, certain future increase in the Groups asbestos-related liabilities would of Foster Wheelers subsidiaries have received claims alleging not result in an equivalent increase in the amount recoverable personal injuries due to contracting work performed by from those insurers.
It is also possible that insurance recoveries them and more rarely from exposure to asbestos-containing may not be realised in full and on time or at all, due to insurer components installed in their steam-generating units and insolvency or for some other reason.
To the extent that any auxiliary equipment.
We expect that these subsidiaries will be defence and or indemnity costs incurred by us for open and named as defendants in additional and or similar suits and expected future asbestos-related claims are not covered by that new claims will be filed in the future.
Whilst some of these insurance proceeds, we would be responsible for the payment claims have been and are expected to be made in the UK, the of those costs, which would adversely affect our cash flows.
overwhelming majority have been and are expected to be made Obligations and liabilities relating to divested and in the US.
We have provided for the estimated indemnity amounts and We remain at risk to potential litigation and business claims defence costs that we expect to incur in relation to open and in relation to divested and non-core businesses where we expected future asbestos-related claims in each year in the have provided customary warranties to the purchaser or have period to 2050.
We have also recognised the estimated future continuing obligations such as to carry out environmental recoveries under our insurance arrangements against the costs remediation.
Where appropriate, we have made provision for of resolving these claims.
these obligations but it is possible that the actual costs incurred in settling any claims will materially exceed those provisions.
Amec Foster Wheeler 168 Annual report and accounts 2014
