Principal risks and uncertainties Reporting and monitoring Reporting to the board, the risk committee is chaired by the Amec Foster Wheeler operates in more Chief Executive and meets at least twice each year to: than 50 countries, serving a broad range X review risk management policies, procedures and processes: of markets and customers.
As such, the X review the Amec Foster Wheeler plc risk register and make Group is subject to certain general and recommendations as appropriate: industry specific risks.
Where practicable, X review, approve and make recommendations in respect of those risks which Amec Foster Wheeler is willing to accept the Group seeks to mitigate exposure or assume in the ordinary course of business risk appetite : to all forms of risk through effective risk X review any issues raised by other committees of the board management and risk transfer practices.
that impact on the risk profile of Amec Foster Wheeler: X review any emerging risks and any potential impact they may Risk management process have on risk appetite: The acquisition of Foster Wheeler was completed in the fourth X review and consider reports on key risk issues such as new quarter of 2014 and we are currently reviewing the control business and geographical locations for operations framework and integrating the risk and control systems with or projects: and those of the wider group.
X issue risk reports and make recommendations to the board.
A mandatory procedure detailing the risk management process is used at project, operating unit, business unit and group levels We acknowledge Guidance on Risk Management, Internal to identify the key risks that could have a significant impact on Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued Amec Foster Wheelers ability to achieve its objectives.
These by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014, and are recorded in risk registers and evaluated to determine the the terms of reference of the risk committee have been likely impact and probability of occurring.
Control actions are developed to mitigate or eliminate risks that are considered unacceptable.
Risk owners are identified and given responsibility for ensuring actions are implemented with appropriate review dates.
The risk registers are reviewed and updated at least quarterly with the relevant risk owners.
Roles and responsibilities Board Risk oversight X ensure appropriate risk management processes are in place X ensure management is positioned to identify and respond to risk X ensure relevant information is raised to the appropriate level Chief Executive Group function heads Head of Risk risk committee Management Risk owner risk manager X participate in the identification of risk X Business unit Leadership teams Business Unit participate in the identification of risk presidents function heads Head of Commercial management action plans X Head of Project ensure action plans are implemented X Delivery monitor and report on risk status Operating unit Leadership teams Operating Unit Head heads function heads of Commercial Head of Project Risk co-ordinator Delivery X ensure risk management process is followed X facilitate risk management reviews X collate and issue risk management Project manager Project team Project risk owners reports registers X promote learning and consistency Amec Foster Wheeler 20 Annual report and accounts 2014 Projects Operating Business plc unit units Group internal audit Principal business and strategic risks The table below shows Amec Foster Wheelers principal business and strategic risks.
Each is specific to the Group and could have a material impact on it.
Actions have been taken to mitigate these risks and these are also shown.
Other financial risks that may impact the Group are shown on pages 134 to 139 note 19 Capital and financial risk management.
Risk Mitigation Geopolitical and economic conditions Amec Foster Wheeler seeks to maintain a balanced geographic Amec Foster Wheeler expects to derive the majority of its presence and, through acquisitions and organic growth, will continue revenues from Europe, the US and Canada and is therefore to increase its exposure to other attractive regions of the world.
particularly affected by political and economic conditions The risk associated with economic conditions resulting in a in those markets.
downturn and affecting the demand for Amec Foster Wheelers Changes in general economic conditions may influence services has been addressed, as far as practicable, by seeking customers decisions on capital investment and or to maintain a balanced business portfolio in terms of geographies, asset maintenance, which could lead to volatility in the markets, clients and service offering business model.
development of Amec Foster Wheelers order intake.
These In light of continuing global economic uncertainties, steps have may also lead to change in the customer base, competition been taken to assess and monitor any potential impact on Amec and in the way customers procure the services we provide.
Foster Wheelers business opportunities and address potential An increase in competition for new contracts may lead to increased supply chain and, more broadly, counterparty risk.
different, less favourable contract terms and conditions.
The introduction of a new focused Strategy and Business Continuing and escalating unrest in the Middle East may Development function to realise the synergies across our have a negative impact on existing and future opportunities customers, markets, geographies, service offerings and in the region.
Changes in commodity prices This risk is mitigated by maintaining a balanced business portfolio A sustained and significant reduction in oil and gas or of geographies, markets, clients and service offerings.
commodity prices would have an adverse impact on the level Improved efficiencies through increased workflow between offices of customer spending in Amec Foster Wheelers markets and and the effective use of centres of excellence and High Value consequently represents a risk to organic growth.
The fall in oil prices has had an impact on the investment behaviour of Amec Foster Wheeler customers in this sector, with pressure on capital expenditure now leading to a greater focus on smaller projects and operating expenditure.
Integration of the AMEC and Foster Wheeler businesses Amec Foster Wheeler has mitigated this risk with: Amec Foster Wheeler may fail to extract value from the X detailed planning for cost and revenue synergies: successful integration of the AMEC and Foster Wheeler businesses.
This may result from a number of factors, X continuing prioritisation of plans to ensure delivery of critical including a continuing deterioration in market conditions, items: management time being focused on the integration of X plans to ensure clear allocations of resource to integration the businesses which could distract management from management, whilst focusing remaining resources and efforts delivering on base businesses to the detriment of safety on the base businesses: performance, project delivery, insufficient engagement between the AMEC and Foster Wheeler businesses at various X the launch of a new operating model on schedule: levels and or poor communication with customers.
X timely and ongoing communication with customers: and X detailed integration planning and success factors with regular progress reports against them.
Project delivery Amec Foster Wheeler has created a new focused and prominent Failing to maintain discipline and meet customer Project Delivery function including a Group Project Delivery expectations on project delivery could result in damage to Director reporting directly to the Chief Executive.
The role of the reputation, loss of repeat business and potentially lead to Project Delivery function is to assure and drive project execution litigation and or claims against Amec Foster Wheeler.
and to support the development, training and mobilisation of personnel to enhance execution competencies.
In addition the system of globally applied policies and procedures, combined with comprehensive management oversight, the risk management process, project reviews, internal audit, peer reviews and customer feedback, mitigate the risk to successful project delivery.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 21 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation Lump sum contracts This risk is mitigated by having skills and competencies fully Lump sum contracts carry different risks than reimbursable aligned with the project scope.
It is further mitigated by having contracts, with the contractor agreeing the contract price a clear, delegated authority structure in place, combined with the formal global mandatory procedures relating to contracting at the start of the contract and accepting the risk of cost overruns in completing the project.
principles and the contract review process.
In addition, the Project Delivery function referred to in the project delivery risk above will perform reviews, provide assurance and drive project execution.
Staff recruitment and retention This risk is mitigated with a clear Human Resources HR An inability to attract and retain sufficient high-calibre strategy, which is aligned to the business strategy and focused on employees could become a barrier to the continued success attracting, developing and retaining the best people for the Group and growth of Amec Foster Wheeler.
with succession planning as appropriate.
It is underpinned by an employee framework which describes how we manage our people Senior management departures or prolonged absences consistently.
could also adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy and manage our operations efficiently.
In addition, there is a continual review of compensation and benefits to ensure sector and geographic competitiveness and there are localised recruitment teams capable of recruiting large numbers into Amec Foster Wheeler.
Amec Foster Wheeler Academy delivers development activities to enhance delivery and prepare employees for more advanced roles.
Health, safety, security and environment In order to control risk and prevent harm, Amec Foster Wheeler Amec Foster Wheeler is involved in activities and is focused on achieving the highest standards of health, safety environments that have the potential to cause serious injury and security management.
This is achieved through setting to personnel or damage to property or the environment and of an effective policy and putting in place clear standards damage to our reputation.
which underpin our health, safety, security and environmental management systems.
These activities may involve operations such as design, construction, commissioning and decommissioning, which We have put in place processes to assure that our systems work have potential to cause serious environmental damage, effectively throughout the organisation and health and safety pollution and habitat destruction.
performance is regularly reviewed against agreed targets to facilitate continual improvement.
Amec Foster Wheeler employs environmental and engineering specialists to support projects in implementing comprehensive project management planning at all stages of a project.
These processes are governed by appropriate quality management systems and are supported by risk identification tools aimed at identifying and managing all aspects of project environmental risk.
Environmental licences Environmental management systems are in place to monitor and Amec Foster Wheelers build own operate facilities and mitigate this risk.
fabrication manufacturing sites rely on maintaining environmental licences to operate, which includes protecting the environment and achieving legally enforceable operating parameters.
Failure to maintain these standards may result in the revocation of all or part of the licence and the suspension of operation, resulting in criminal or civil action and or financial risk to the business.
Failure to maintain assets and or pollution abatement equipment may result in a failure to meet legally-binding objectives and targets for the operation.
Information technology IT Appropriate controls are in place to mitigate the risk of systems Amec Foster Wheeler is exposed to the risk that the IT failure and data loss, including systems back-up procedures, systems on which it relies fail and or that sensitive data held data security breach response plan, disaster recovery plans and by the Group is lost due to ineffective data governance or globally distributed data centres providing a secure and reliable as a result of unauthorised access to Amec Foster Wheeler environment for hosting critical applications.
There is also systems or malware attacks.
appropriate virus protection, malware detection and remediation, network security controls and penetration testing and encryption of mobile devices.
Amec Foster Wheeler 22 Annual report and accounts 2014 Risk Mitigation Ethical breach Amec Foster Wheeler has a number of measures in place in the two A substantive ethical breach and or non-compliance with legacy businesses to mitigate the risk of a substantive ethical breach laws or regulations could potentially lead to damage to Amec and or non-compliance with laws or regulations, including: Foster Wheelers reputation, fines, litigation and claims for X embedded policies and procedures: compensation.
X Codes of Business Conduct: This risk is heightened as we transition from two Codes X of Business Conduct and two systems for raising ethical segregation of duties: concerns to a single Code of Business Conduct and a single X management oversight: system for raising ethical concerns for the combined group.
X financial and operational controls: Confusion could arise amongst employees and give rise to an increased risk of substantive non-compliance with the Codes X independent whistle-blowing mechanism: of Business Conduct.
In addition personnel could engage in X appointment of ethics and compliance officers: activities which could be in substantive breach of laws and regulations.
X anti-fraud and other internal audits: X legal team advice: X ethics training programme: and X oversight by the ethics committee of the board now the HSSEE committee see page 57.
Work is underway to establish a single combined Code of Business Conduct, revised global mandatory policies and procedures and provide further appropriate training in 2015.
Pensions This risk to Amec Foster Wheelers pension schemes is mitigated by: Amec Foster Wheeler operates a number of defined benefits X maintaining a relatively strong funding position over time: pension schemes, where careful judgement is required in X determining the assumptions for future salary and pension taking advice from independent qualified actuaries and other increases, discount rate, inflation, investment returns and professional advisers: member longevity.
There is a risk of underestimating this X agreeing appropriate investment policies with the trustees: and liability.
X close monitoring of changes in the funding position, with reparatory action agreed with the trustees in the event that a sustained deficit emerges.
See note 14 on page 126 for further details on our pension schemes.
Legacy risks The established legacy team manages these claims with internal Litigation and business claims from divested and non-core and external legal advice.
The aim is to seek cost-effective businesses remain a risk to Amec Foster Wheeler.
management of litigation and promote commercially sensible settlements where appropriate.
Managing non-core legacy assets until divestment may require skills that are not common to the rest of the Amec Foster Wheeler has made provisions for the legacy issues Company.
that are believed to be adequate and is not aware of any other current issues relating to disposed businesses which are likely Ground contaminants remain at some former Amec Foster to have a material impact.
Specialist teams with the appropriate Wheeler operational localities where the pollutant may knowledge are brought in as required.
have been as a result of the Companys operations, or the Company is responsible for its clean-up.
There is a risk In the case of any historical contaminated land, strategies have that pollution may result in a risk to human health or the been developed to minimise the risk posed by such contaminated environment.
There is potential for civil and or criminal land, including asset management and land remediation projects action against the Company for such pollutants.
and they remain under continuing review.
Asbestos liability There is a dedicated in-house finance and legal resource The legacy Foster Wheeler business is exposed to significant comprising a team of specialist asbestos lawyers who manage numbers of claims relating to alleged exposure to asbestos.
the claims, assisted by National Co-ordinating Counsel NCC The quantum of these claims is actuarially forecast each and local counsel.
A claims strategy has been developed with the year and provisions are held against these loss projections.
NCC and regular reviews are undertaken.
However there is a risk that these loss projections will be The team monitors legal developments in these claims and the exceeded and the provisions could be inadequate to meet strategy to deal with them on a regular basis.
The quantum of these claims is actuarially forecast each year and provisions are held against the ultimate loss projections.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 23 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review
