ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Performance and Financials Risks and Uncertainties ITV has a formal risk management process which The Board also reviews risk appetite to ensure ITV is carrying is embedded within the business to support the an acceptable level of risk.
During the year it conducted an identification and effective management of risks across exercise to assess the current risk appetite of the business the business.
It is regularly reviewed and adapted as the and the actual risk the business takes with respect to Company, industry and macro environment evolves.
the following categories: financial, market, operational, compliance and regulation, creative investment and Our approach, which is consistent with previous years, covers organisational.
This is considered to be the first step towards risks at all levels of the organisation and considers risks in using risk appetite as a decision making tool and further three core groups: work will be undertaken in 2015 to enhance this process.
High Impact, Low Likelihood HILL risks of low The Board also continues to monitor closely ITVs specific inherent likelihood but where there would be major financial risks, including foreign exchange, borrowing levels, consequences were the risk to materialise: interest rates and pension risks.
Strategic risks would impact the successful execution The Audit Committee keeps the overall effectiveness of of the strategy: and the risk management framework and the risk management process under review.
Process level risks embedded into everyday activity within the organisation.
Risk management process The Management Board has responsibility for the content Risk management framework and operation of the risk management framework and and risk appetite performs regular reviews of all risks.
In 2014 all the HILL The Board is responsible for establishing a robust and and Strategic risks were reassessed and further refined to appropriate risk management framework and risk improve our risk management.
As well as management management process for ITV.
The Board, supported by the review, Process level risks are also subject to an ongoing Audit Committee, regularly reviews the risk management review by internal audit.
framework, its content and its operations.
This includes reviewing the risks themselves and the mitigating actions.
Risk Management Framework High Impact, Low Likelihood HILL Of low inherent likelihood but where HILL there would be major consequences risks were they to materialise Strategic risks Would impact the successful execution of the strategy Strategic risks Process level risks Embedded into everyday activity Process level risks within the organisation 50 slugline Strategic Report ar2014.
com Stock code: ITV Performance and Financials Key Performance Indicators Financial and Performance Review Risks and Uncertainties Mitigating actions have been identified for all the HILL and Internal audit plan Strategic risks.
Each Strategic risk has been mapped to at The internal audit plan is driven from ITVs risk management least one of the three key strategic priorities and, where framework.
As outlined above, management has completed possible, assigned key risk indicators.
Where appropriate, a number of activities with respect to HILL risks, Strategic the key risk indicators are aligned to our key performance risks and Process level risks.
Internal audit reviews the indicators KPIs on page 34 or a subset of these KPIs.
All HILL auditable elements of these risks and this informs the areas and Strategic risks are owned by at least one member of the and topics that internal audit focuses on.
Risk monitoring process ITVs risk monitoring process is embedded in the running and review of the business.
Risks are primarily controlled through the risk management process.
In addition to the risk specific mitigating actions outlined below, risks are regularly Pictured: ITV2 comedy Plebs returned for a second discussed and considered through day-to-day operations series in the autumn.
It averaged 0.9 million and through a number of divisional Board and review viewers, up on the previous years series.
51 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Performance and Financials Risks and Uncertainties continued High Impact, Low Likelihood Risks HILL Potential Risk Mitigating Factors Financial ITV loses its credit status or lines The business is cash generative and working capital management remains a key of funding with existing lenders or focus.
there is a collapse of a major bank ITV has 250 million of undrawn, financial covenant free facilities in addition to impacting financial arrangements a 525 million Revolving Credit Facility with a number of core relationship banks.
The low gross debt levels that ITV now has should enable the Company to obtain debt from the marketplace if needed.
We are rated investment grade by two ratings agencies.
There is a major collapse in There is regular communication between ITV and the pension trustees.
investment values leading to a The pension schemes assets are invested in a diversified portfolio, with a material impact on the pension significant amount of the fund held in bonds.
ITV has worked with the pension trustees to limit the potential deficit by a series of asset backed arrangements and taken risk out of the scheme with a longevity swap.
Operational A significant event removes a There is a business resilience plan in place which includes succession plans or number of the key management nominated replacements for all key positions within the Company.
team from the business on a longterm or permanent basis.
Reputation An event with public interest that ITV has a crisis management policy in place and is increasing emphasis on its causes significant reputational and development and application.
There is a major health and safety ITV has a central Health & Safety team and Health & Safety policies and incident that results in a significant procedures are in place, with appropriate training for employees where required.
As we expand internationally these will be continually reviewed.
Regular inspections are undertaken at all sites, which are run alongside a programme of Health & Safety audits.
This is subject to ongoing review.
A major incident results in ITV being A risk register of broadcast operations, including key outsourced functions, is in unable to continue with scheduled place and reviewed on a regular basis.
Major incident scenario testing performed in 2014.
An incident management process has been agreed and disaster recovery plans are in place.
ITV regularly communicates with legislative groups, legal panels and Ofcom to There is a significant or unexpected monitor potential policy and regulatory developments.
change in regulation or legislation.
com Stock code: ITV Performance and Financials Key Performance Indicators Financial and Performance Review Risks and Uncertainties Strategic Risks Strategic Strategic Risk Mitigating Factors Priorities The Market There is a major decline in Growing non-advertising revenue in areas such as ITV Studios 1 2 3 advertising revenues and ITV and Online, Pay & Interactive, remains a key part of the strategy.
does not build sufficient non-NAR ITV continues to focus on cash and costs, ensuring the Company revenue streams to offset the has an adequate financial liquidity and balance sheet flexibility.
financial impact of this decline.
The television market moves ITV continues to support free platforms, including YouView, to 1 3 significantly towards pay television keep free-to-air strong.
as a preferred model, negatively ITV looks at and evaluates the opportunities for expanding its impacting ITVs free-to-air revenue.
existing pay services and other pay offerings.
ITV explores other platforms to understand viewing habits and what people are prepared to pay for.
A faster than expected shift The business continues to develop ITV Player VOD services, 1 2 3 to Video on Demand VOD or maximise the distribution of ITV Player and grow its VOD other new technologies causes advertising business.
a sustained loss of advertising ITV monitors the market for new technology and where revenue.
appropriate explores how ITV can participate.
People ITV fails to evolve its organisational ITV constantly reassesses the business to create a fit-for- 1 2 3 structure and culture to ensure that purpose organisation.
it is capable of delivering continued Strategic focus on working across the business to embed and growth from the new businesses or strengthen the culture of One ITV way of working.
revenue streams and fails to attract, ITV invests in training and development for all key colleagues in develop and retain key creative, the business.
commercial and management talent with the skills required for the Succession plans are in place for all key positions within the ongoing business.
53 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Performance and Financials Risks and Uncertainties continued Strategic Risks Strategic Strategic Risk Mitigating Factors Priorities Organisation, Structure and Processes There is significant loss of ITV is focused on both protecting and exploiting existing rights 1 2 3 programme rights or ITV fails to and ensuring that future rights generated accrue to ITV.
identify and obtain the optimal ITV has a detailed model to evaluate the value of third party rights packages.
rights to ensure it only buys rights that make economic sense.
ITV fails to create and own ITV maximises opportunities for ITV Studios to create 1 2 3 a sufficient number of hit successful shows by investing in the creative pipeline and programmes formats.
focusing on programmes and genres that can return and travel internationally, i. e. drama, entertainment and factual entertainment, as evidenced by our increased investment in scripted content.
ITV is focused on hiring and retaining the right key creative talent.
ITV fails to properly resource, Talent management plans have been developed and reviewed 1 2 3 financially, creatively and to ensure adequate succession planning across ITV.
operationally, the new growth ITV continues to embed and strengthen the culture of One ITV businesses, in particular online and way of working.
Lessons from recent investments are captured through post acquisition reviews.
ITV loses a significant volume of A Management Board sponsored Operational Risk Steering 1 2 3 personal or sensitive data.
Group is in place to ensure the appropriate management of information security.
Mandatory online training modules, awareness campaigns and simplified information security policies for employees.
Monitoring of information sharing outside of ITV.
ITV remains heavily reliant on System requirements are kept under review with business 2 3 legacy systems, which could growth and system modernisation projects implemented as potentially restrict the ability appropriate.
These A modernisation plan is in place for the legacy systems which systems and processes may not be remains under constant review and development to ensure appropriate for non-advertising technology systems meet the needs of the business.
com Stock code: ITV Performance and Financials Key Performance Indicators Financial and Performance Review Risks and Uncertainties Strategic Risks Strategic Strategic Risk Mitigating Factors Priorities Technology A significant high profile incident ITV has ongoing modernisation projects to ensure transmission 1 2 3 or series of events such as and distribution technologies are fit-for-purpose.
transmission incidents or a major There are disaster recovery and incident management plans regulatory breach causes significant in place in high risk areas of the business to help deliver a rapid reputational damage.
ITV proactively manages its broadcast chain partners and suppliers to ensure the risk of incidents and regulatory breach is minimised.
ITV fails to ensure appropriate Disaster recovery plans are in place with tests conducted 1 2 3 business continuity planning annually on business critical systems.
and resilience within its core systems, processes, platforms and technology infrastructure.
There is a sustained cyber viral We continue to improve our ability to monitor, detect and 1 2 3 attack causing prolonged system respond to cyber threats internally and through partnerships denial or major reputational with specialist security organisations.
damage, for example the ability Mandatory online training modules, awareness campaigns and to broadcast our channels or the simplified information security policies have been implemented availability of ITV Player.
There are disaster recovery and incident management plans in place for high risk areas of the business to help deliver a rapid and flexible response.
A Management Board sponsored Operational Risk Steering Group is in place to ensure the appropriate management of information security.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Adam Crozier Chief Executive 55 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Pictured: Grantchester, a six part drama, launched with 7.7 million viewers and went on to average 6.6 million and 24%.
