O u r v e a c l n u e e l l s e c m x a e k Strategic Report Our principal risks and uncertainties The risk management process is closely aligned to our strategy.
The most significant principal risks identified by the Board and Risk is an inherent part of doing business.
The management of these the corresponding mitigating controls are set out below in risks is based on a balance of risk and reward determined through alphabetical order.
careful assessment of both the potential likelihood and impact as well as risk appetite.
Consideration is given to both reputational as Business continuity and major incidents response well as financial impact, recognising the significant commercial value attributable to the Sainsburys brand.
Each principal risk and Risk uncertainty is considered in the context of how it relates to the A major incident or catastrophic event could impact on the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
The current Groups ability to trade.
business strategy and objectives are categorised into five areas Mitigation of focus as follows: Sainsburys has detailed plans in place, supported by senior representatives who are trained in dealing with major incidents and have the authority levels to make decisions in the event of a potentially disruptive incident.
Growing space Great and creating The Business Continuity Steering Group meets quarterly to ensure food property that the business continuity BC policy and strategy is fit for value purpose.
In addition, it oversees the mitigation of all risks associated with BC and IT disaster recovery.
In the event of any unplanned or Five areas unforeseen events the Business Continuity Management Team is Compelling of focus Developing general convened at short notice to manage the response and any associated new business merchandise risk to the business.
and clothing All key strategic locations have secondary backup sites which would Complementary channels and be made available within pre-defined timescales and are regularly services tested.
Business strategy Risk The risk discussion includes assessment of both gross and net risk, where gross risk reflects the risk exposure and risk landscape before If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or does not considering the mitigations in place, and net risk reflects the residual communicate or implement its strategies effectively, the risk after mitigations.
The gross risk movement from prior year for business may be negatively impacted.
Risks to delivering the each principal risk and uncertainty has been assessed and is strategy need to be properly understood and managed to presented as follows: deliver long-term growth for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Mitigation A clear strategy remains in place with five key areas of focus: No change Increased gross Reduced gross Great food: risk exposure risk exposure Compelling general merchandise and clothing: Mitigations in place supporting the management of the risk to a net Complementary channels and services: risk position are also described for each principal risk and uncertainty.
Developing new business: and Growing space and creating property value.
Key risk movements The key risks are discussed and monitored throughout the year Progress against these areas of focus and any risks to delivery, such toidentify changes to the risk landscape.
Over the last year, this as the availability of suitable new store sites, are regularly reviewed ongoing monitoring of risk has identified the opportunity to by the Board and the overall strategy is reviewed at the annual recognise the challenge around property, optimisation of space two-day Strategy Conference.
The Operating Board also holds regular andthe impact of the increasingly competitive landscape as a key sessions to discuss strategy.
This activity is supported by a dedicated corporate risk.
This has resulted in an additional risk disclosure strategy team.
To ensure the strategy is communicated and around Space and Property.
Also reflected in the current year understood, the Group engages with a wide range of stakeholders disclosure is the risk associated with a change in leadership and the including shareholders, colleagues, customers and suppliers on potential impact on colleague engagement.
Finally, the Financial and a continual basis.
Treasury risk now includes reference to the financial risk exposure to the Group post acquiring full ownership of Sainsburys Bank.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 24 l e a u n o s i d t i a f r f e e r p e O n t Colleague engagement, retention and capability Developing new business Risk Risk The Group employs 161,000 colleagues who are critical Exploring a range of new opportunities beyond our core to the success of our business.
Attracting and maintaining business forms part of our five areas of focus.
Robust good relations with talented colleagues and investing in their identification and management of risks associated with the training and development is essential to the efficiency and new business development agenda is essential to support sustainability of the Groups operations.
Delivery of the strategic successful delivery of objectives.
objectives, including development of new businesses and Mitigation progress on multi-channel, increases the risk of ability to attract The existing risk management framework and processes embedded and retain talent, specific skill sets and capability.
In addition, in the business extend to projects exploring new opportunities the change of leadership in 2014 will require careful beyond the core.
All projects have a steering group and subject management to ensure colleague engagement is maintained matter experts are engaged as appropriate.
A formal review and during the period of transition.
approval governance structure is also in place.
Mitigation The Groups employment policies and remuneration and benefits Environment and sustainability packages are regularly reviewed and are designed to be competitive with other companies, as well as providing colleagues with fulfilling Risk career opportunities.
Colleague surveys, performance reviews, Environment and sustainability are core to Sainsburys values.
communications with trade unions and regular communication of The key risk facing the Group in this area relates to reducing business activities are some of the methods the Group uses to the environmental impact of the business with a focus on understand and respond to colleagues needs.
Processes are also in reducing packaging and new ways of reducing waste and place to identify talent and actively manage succession planning energy usage across stores, depots and offices.
Ongoing reviews are performed to Mitigation understand the nature of capability and specific skill sets required A number of initiatives are in place, which are being led by the todeliver objectives.
This is supported by embracing new ways of Environmental Action Team and the Corporate Responsibility Steering attracting talent and our corporate value A great place to work Group, to reduce our environmental impact and to meet our reinforces our commitment to giving people the opportunity to be customers expectations in this area.
Further details are included in the best they can be.
the Corporate Responsibility review on pages 47 to 49.
A plan is in place to manage the leadership transition and the methods described above will continue to be employed to Financial and treasury risk understand and maintain colleague engagement during this period.
Risk The main financial risks are the availability of short and Data security long-term funding to meet business needs and fluctuations Risk in interest, commodity and foreign currency rates.
The business has now acquired full ownership of Sainsburys Bank which It is essential that the security of customer, colleague and presents a risk that the Groups financial performance and Company confidential data is maintained.
A major breach of position may be negatively impacted if the Bank transition information security could have a major negative financial and and performance is not delivered as planned.
reputational impact on the business.
The risk landscape is Mitigation increasingly challenging with deliberate acts of cybercrime on the rise targeting all markets and heightening the risk exposure.
The Group Treasury function is responsible for managing the Groups Mitigation liquid resources, funding requirements, interest rate and currency exposures and the associated risks as set out in note 28 on page 114 A Data Governance Committee is established and is supported by to 119.
The Group Treasury function has clear policies and operating focused working groups looking at the management of colleague procedures which are regularly reviewed and audited.
data, customer data, information security, commercial data and awareness and training.
Various information security policies and Sainsburys Bank operates an enterprise wide risk management standards are in place which focus on encryption, network security, framework.
The principal financial risks relating to the Bank and access controls, system security, data protection and information associated mitigations are set out in note 28 to the financial handling.
A review of key third parties who hold sensitive customer or statements on page 119 to 120. colleague data continues to take place, and progress is monitored by the Information Security team.
A risk-based security testing approach across Sainsburys IT infrastructure and applications is in place to identify and remediate ongoing vulnerabilities.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 25 Strategic Report Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Health and safety people and product Pension risk Risk Risk Prevention of injury or loss of life for both colleagues and The Group operates a number of pension arrangements.
These customers is of utmost importance.
In addition it is paramount are subject to risks in relation to liabilities as a result of changes to maintaining the confidence our customers have in our in life expectancy, inflation and future salary increases, and to business.
risks regarding the value of investments and the returns derived from such investments.
Mitigation Mitigation Clear policies and procedures are in place detailing the controls required to manage health and safety and product safety risks across An investment strategy is in place which has been developed by the the business and comply with all applicable regulations.
These cover pension trustee, in consultation with the Company, to mitigate the the end-to-end operation, from the auditing and vetting of volatility of liabilities, to diversify investment risk and to manage construction contractors, to the health and safety processes in place cash.
In September 2013, the Sainsburys Defined Benefit Pension in our depots, stores and offices, to the controls in place to ensure Scheme was closed to future contributions which will help us to people and product safety and integrity.
manage the escalating costs of pensions and protect the pensions that colleagues have already built up in the Scheme.
In addition, established product testing programmes are also in place to support rigorous monitoring of product traceability and provide Regulatory environment assurance over product safety and integrity.
Supplier terms and conditions and product specifications set clear standards for product Risk raw material safety and quality which suppliers are expected to The Groups operations are subject to a broad spectrum of comply with.
Key areas subject to regulation include planning, competition, environmental, employment, pensions Process compliance is supported by external accreditation and and tax laws and regulations over the Groups products and internal training programmes, which are aligned to both health and services.
safety laws and Sainsburys internal policies.
In addition, resource is dedicated to manage the risk effectively, in the form of the Group Acquiring full ownership of Sainsburys Bank introduces risk Safety Committee and specialist teams including Convenience Risk around the Bank failing to meet the requirements of legislation Managers and Logistics and Commercial Safety Specialists.
and regulatory requirements as defined by the Prudential Regulation Authority, Financial Conduct Authority and any other relevant regulatory bodies.
IT systems and infrastructure Risk Failure to comply with laws and regulations could lead to civil The Group is reliant on its IT systems and operational and or criminal legal prosecution and fines or imprisonment infrastructure in order to trade efficiently.
Inadequate systems imposed on Sainsburys or our colleagues.
In addition, a breach or failure of key systems could have a significant impact on our could lead to reputational damage.
Mitigation Mitigation There is an established governance process in place at both The Group has extensive controls in place to maintain the integrity Sainsburys and Sainsburys Bank to monitor regulatory and efficiency of its systems including detailed recovery plans in the developments and to ensure that all existing and forthcoming event of a significant failure.
New innovations and upgrades to regulations are complied with.
systems are ongoing to improve both the customer experience and colleague efficiency.
Prior to introducing system changes, rigorous At Sainsburys Bank, conduct risk considerations are fully embedded testing is completed.
into all relevant Bank activities and the colleague performance management framework.
At Sainsburys, regular reviews are completed across the estate to ensure compliance and that training needs are addressed as required.
Processes for monitoring and embedding training for key new legislation are in place and Sainsburys also has a dedicated internal legal department to provide the relevant colleagues impacted by the regulations with advice and guidance.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 26 Space and property Transition risk Sainsburys Bank Risk Risk The Group continues to invest in the core business.
Acquiring Acquiring full ownership of Sainsburys Bank introduces the targeted volume of the right sites and operating new and change-driven operational risk in particular through the existing space in line with targeted levels of profitability transitional period.
This transitional risk could have an adverse presents a risk in an increasingly competitive market.
Failure impact on people, processes, regulatory compliance and to manage this risk may impact delivery of financial targets or technical infrastructure.
Failure to transition successfully may strategic objectives.
have an adverse impact on the Sainsburys brand.
A robust risk management process is essential to support successful Mitigation transition.
A property pipeline is established and formal approval processes Mitigation are in place to support investment decisions.
The performance of the estate is monitored and reviewed on an ongoing basis and a Executive sponsorship and a change governance structure is in place refurbishment and refresh programme for supermarkets and to manage and oversee the transition including engagement of convenience is in place to maintain and optimise the estate.
management with financial services experience.
The risk management process includes early identification of key transitional risks along with mitigation plans.
Tracking of risk mitigation Trading environment effectiveness will be ongoing throughout the transitional period.
Risk The Bank has also identified transitional risk as a new and emerging risk to the Bank.
Effective management of the trading account is key to the achievement of performance targets.
The continued challenging economic environment and competitive retail pressure could affect the performance of the Group in terms of sales, costs and operations, through: the ongoing challenges to household disposable income: competitor pricing positions and continued challenging competitive environment: the reduction of the industry profit pool: commodity costs driving up the cost of goods: and changing competitive landscape.
There is also a risk of supplier failure, with possible operational or financial consequences for the Group.
Mitigation We adopt a differentiated strategy with a continued focus on delivering quality products with universal appeal, at a range of price points ensuring value for all our customers.
This is achieved through the continuous review of our key customer metrics, monitoring of current market trends and price points across competitors, active management of price positions, development of sales propositions and increased promotion and marketing activity.
While external cost pressures including oil-related costs, commodity pricing and business rates affect our business, the Group continues to work hard to mitigate the impact of these cost pressures on customers and on our overall profitability through the delivery of cost savings.
Sainsburys undertakes credit checks on suppliers and maintains regular, open dialogue with key suppliers concerning their ability to trade.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 27
