22 23 Principal Risks Any business undertaking will involve some risk with many risk factors common to any business no matter what segment it operates in.
The Directors acknowledge however that certain risks and uncertainties are more specific to the Group and the markets in which its businesses operate.
The principal risk factors are assessed below: Omnichannel Risk and impact Mitigating Activities Brands The retail fascias offer a proposition that has a mixture of third party and The Group seeks to ensure it is not overly reliant on a small number of brands by offering a stable of own brands which is constantly evolving.
Where possible, own brand product.
These fascias are heavily dependent on the products and the Groups retail fascias also work in partnership with the third party brands in the brands themselves being desirable to the customer if the revenue streams their business on the design of bespoke product which is then exclusive to the are to grow.
Therefore, the Group needs all of its third party and own brands, Groups fascias.
Further, the Group continues to actively seek additional brands including brands licensed exclusively to it, to maintain their design and which it can either own or license exclusively.
marketing prominence to sustain that desirability.
The Group is also subject to the distribution policies operated by some third party brands.
Intellectual property The Groups trademarks and other intellectual property rights are critical in The Group therefore works with third party organisations to ensure that the Groups intellectual property is registered in all relevant territories.
The Group maintaining the value of the Groups own brands.
Ensuring that the Groups also actively works to prevent counterfeit product being passed off as legitimate.
businesses can use these brands exclusively is critical in providing a point of differentiation to our customers and without this exclusivity we believe that footfall into the stores, visits to our websites and ultimately conversion of these visits into revenues would all be reduced.
Retail property factors The retail landscape has seen significant changes in recent years with a number Wherever possible, the Group will seek a number of protections when agreeing to new property leases: of new developments opened and a high volume of retail units becoming vacant.
The Group can be exposed where it has committed itself to a long lease in a New leases generally tak en out for a maximum period of 10 years.
location which, as a result of a more recent retail development, is no longer Look to agree a break option part way through the lease.
as attractive to the customer leading to reduced footfall and potentially lower Capped rent reviews.
Agree rents which flex with turnover in the store.
When the Group determines that the current store performance is unsatisfactory then an assessment is made on whether the Group wants to continue trading in that location.
If it does then the landlord is approached to see whether we can reach an agreement on a reduction in the rent or a change to a turnover based rent.
If it is considered that the best solution is to exit the store completely then the landlord is approached with a view to a complete surrender of the lease.
If this is not possible then the Group would alternatively seek to assign the lease or sublet it to another retailer.
In many cases, this necessitates the payment of an incentive.
The Group is mindful of current economic factors and the adverse impact on the potential for disposal from the high volume of vacant units already available as a consequence of a number of retailers going out of business in recent years.
Assigning the lease or finding a sub-tenant is not without risk because if the other retailer fails then the liability to pay the rent usually reverts to the head lessee.
The Group monitors the financial condition of the assignees closely for evidence that the possibility of a store returning is more than remote and makes a provision for the return of stores if this risk looks probable.
The Board reviews the list of assigned leases regularly and is comfortable that appropriate provisions have been made where there is a probable risk of the store returning to the Group under privity of contract and, other than as disclosed in note 24, they are not aware of any other stores where there is a possible risk of these stores returning.
Strategic Report 22 23 Omnichannel continued Risk and impact Mitigating Activities Seasonality The Groups core retail business is highly seasonal.
Historically, the Groups The business monitors stock levels and manages the peaks in demand constantly with regular sales re-forecasting.
most important trading period in terms of sales, profitability and cash flow in its Sports and Fashion fascias in particular has been the Christmas season.
Lower than expected performance in this period may have an adverse impact on results for the full year, which may cause excess inventories that are difficult to liquidate.
Economic factors As with other retailers and distributors into retail businesses, the demand The Group seeks to manage this risk by offering a highly desirable and competitively priced product range, which is highly differentiated from that of the Groups competitors.
for the Groups products is influenced by a number of economic factors, notably interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, employment levels and ultimately, disposable incomes.
Reliance on non-UK manufacturers The majority of both third party branded product and the Groups own The Group works with its suppliers to ensure that the products being sourced satisfy increasingly stringent laws and regulations governing issues of health and safety, branded product is sourced outside of the UK.
The Group is therefore exposed packaging and labelling and other social and environmental factors.
to the risks associated with international trade and transport as well as different legal systems and operating standards.
Whilst the Group can manage the risk The Group has also recently appointed a new Group Supply Chain and Change in the supply chain on its own and licensed products, it has little control over the Director who has extensive experience in this area.
supply chain within the third party brands.
As such, the Group is exposed to events which may not be under its control.
Consistency of Infrastructure Risk and impact Mitigating Activities IT The Group relies on its IT systems and networks and those of the banks and The Group is progressing with a programme to replace its legacy enterprise system.
However, whilst a move to a third party system will reduce the risks in the current the credit card companies to service its retail customers all year round.
system there is significant execution risk during the migration work which will take a number of years to complete.
Further, the introduction of a third party system is The principal legacy enterprise system has historically been ideally suited to bringing additional costs both in terms of the initial development and ongoing support.
the operations of the business but it has always been heavily reliant on a very limited number of key development staff who have now left the business.
Any long term interruption in the availability of the core enterprise system would This risk has been mitigated by improving documentation of the system and have a significant impact on the retail businesses.
The Group manages this risk by recruiting external developers to support the system.
However, the Board are the principal IT servers being housed in a third party location which has a mirror mindful that it is difficult to recruit people with the relevant technical knowledge back up available should the primary servers or links fail.
of the language that the legacy system is written in.
Warehouse operations The Groups new warehouse in Rochdale became operational during 2012.
The Group has worked with its insurers on a Business Continuity Plan which came into effect when the warehouse became operational.
This plan is currently being Having the stock in one location with increased automation in the picking reviewed and enhanced by the Group Supply Chain and Change Director.
process has brought significant benefits in terms of product availability, quicker deliveries to our European stores and reduced transport costs.
In addition, there is a full support contract with our automation equipment However, there is an increased risk to store replenishment and multi-channel providers which includes a 24 7 presence from a qualified engineer thereby fulfillment from both equipment and system failure, together with the enabling immediate attention to any equipment issues.
inherent risk of having all the stock in one location.
Personnel The success of the Group is partly dependent upon the continued service of its key To help achieve this continued service, the Group has competitive reward packages for all of its staff.
management personnel and upon its ability to attract, motivate and retain suitably qualified employees.
More specifically for the retail businesses, the Group also has a long established and substantial training function which seeks to develop training for all levels of retail employees and thereby increase morale and improve staff retention.
This then ensures that knowledge of the Groups differentiated product offering is not lost, thereby enhancing customer service.
