RISK MANAGEMENT The Board is responsible for identifying the nature and extent of the The Group has identified the following key risks.
This is not an risks the Group has to manage in order to successfully pursue its exhaustive list but rather a list of the most material risks facing the growth strategy and generate shareholder value over the long term.
The impact of these risks, individually or collectively, could The Board uses a risk framework which is designed to support the potentially affect the ability of the Group to operate profitably and process for identifying, evaluating and managing both financial and generate positive cash flows in the medium to long term.
these risks are actively monitored and managed, as detailed below.
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATING ACTION STRATEGIC RISKS GROWTH STRATEGY JimmyChoos long term growth is dependent on The Board has approved well-structured growth plans making strategic moves into new territories, and ensured they are adequately resourced.
The wrong strategy or poor implementation could put future growth at risk.
The Board regularly challenges the strategic plans toensure downside risks are mitigated.
The Board closely monitors the progress against the strategic plan, redirecting strategy or implementation effort when required.
COMPE TITIVE JimmyChoo competes with other luxury goods Senior Management monitors competitor movements ENVIRONMENT companies for end clients, talent, retail sites, and ensures JimmyChoo hires and retains top staff to wholesale customer accounts and supplier capacity.
stay ahead of the competition in each area including: Failure to compete well in any of these areas risks future growth.
Design and Merchandising staying ahead of future design and consumer trends: Supply Chain negotiating and building strong relationships with current and future suppliers: Retail acquiring top sites in new areas: and Wholesale nurturing strong relationships with keycustomers.
CHANGES IN Future success depends on JimmyChoos ability to Design and Merchandising teams have a structured CONSUMER shape, predict and respond to fashion trends and approach to monitoring trends internally and externally PREFERENCES consumer preferences on both products and channels.
and use the feedback to develop each collection to ANDTRENDS Failure to do so risks surplus inventories, missed sales stay ahead of future design and consumer trends.
opportunities and a reducing salience of the brand withclients.
Retail teams monitor consumer channel preferences.
Marketing and Brand Image teams ensure the brand book and marketing are aligned and relevant to the market place.
OPERATIONAL RISKS KEY PERSONNEL JimmyChoo needs to attract and retain the best HR policies and management culture are reviewed people in each area.
regularly to ensure they continue to be effective in keeping JimmyChoo as an attractive place to work.
Bonuses and incentive plans are reviewed regularly toensure they remain competitive with the industry.
THIRD PARTY If suppliers do not produce product on time, to the JimmyChoo has dedicated supply chain and quality PRODUC TION right quality levels, or fail to meet local laws and assurance offices, close to where the suppliers are regulations, this would constrain the availability of located.
This helps to build strong relationships with stock in stores and for delivery to our wholesale suppliers and manages those suppliers tightly to customers.
If JimmyChoo requires production beyond production deadlines and contracts.
current capacity this risks constraining growth.
To ensure supplier availability, JimmyChoo plans volume and capacity clearly in advance.
JimmyChoo maintains knowledge of supplier capability on an on-going basis to determine whereconstraints could arise in future.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 38 RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATING ACTION IT SYSTEMS Critical data losses or delays in operations if Senior management reviews the IT strategy and JimmyChoos IT systems are not robust against power operations plan regularly to ensure IT systems outages: computer, network and telecommunications continue to be appropriate for the size and complexity failures: computer viruses: security breaches and user of JimmyChoos business.
errors could interrupt the business operations.
In addition, JimmyChoo maintains a disaster recoveryplan.
OUTSOURCING Logistics, IT and transactional accounting activities Legal contracts and service catalogues have been SERVICES TO areoutsourced to the JAB Luxurys shared services signed between JimmyChoo and GBS.
Both parties GLOBALBUSINESS company, LLX Global Business Services SA GBS.
are committed to improving the KPIs over time.
SERVICES GBS Reductions in GBS performance risk impacting JimmyChoos operations and reductions in GBS Performance is monitored on a daily basis and efficiency would lead to increased costs for reported to senior managers monthly.
A clear remediation process is in place if required.
PROGRAMME RISK Interruption or reduced performance during Senior management have put in place a strong implementation of the operational transformation programme management team and structure in programme would impact current operations.
If the JimmyChoo, linking project delivery teams from GBS scope of transformation reduced, future development to key staff in the JimmyChoo business.
plans of the business would be put at risk.
A clear programme structure, planning processes, reporting framework and communication plan have been put in place and are regularly monitored.
Senior management are prepared to enact decisions and actions quickly as required to ensure the programme is implemented successfully.
COMPLIANCE RISKS COMPLIANCE Changes in laws and regulations could result in Employees in each area monitor regulatory WITHLAWS AND JimmyChoo being non-compliant or incurring costs requirements in their area e. g. Design, Merchandising REGUL ATIONS to be compliant e. g. system changes.
If third parties and Supply Chain on consumer product safety: Retail e. g. suppliers are not compliant, there would be a on health and safety in stores: Supply Chain and riskto brand image or of financial penalties.
Logistics on import and export requirements.
The JimmyChoo legal team liaise with these teams, provide an overall review and act swiftly should instances of non-compliance arise.
CUSTOMER Failure to comply with restrictions on the use of The new CRM system which has been implemented CONFIDENTIALIT Y customer data could harm JimmyChoos brand with the roll-out of SAP has been designed to handle reputation and credibility and level of customer trust.
The Chief Information Security Officer within GBS undertakes regular PCI audits.
FINANCIAL RISKS EXCHANGE RATE Products are purchased in euro and sold in local The Board has approved a hedging strategy to FLUC TUATIONS currencies.
In addition, our DOS costs are incurred minimise impact of exchange rate fluctuations.
Adverse movements in foreign exchange rates would impact revenue growth reported in sterling, as well as gross and net margins.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 39 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATING ACTION ECONOMIC Economic downturns in countries where JimmyChoo Economic environment and international market risks DOWNTURN AND sells products may reduce sales and increase inventory.
are regularly reviewed by senior management, with INTERNATIONAL appropriate action taken as required e. g. reallocation MARKET RISK Changes in international trade laws, transportation of product or resources between regions and active costs, or local government instability could all impact management of inventory.
REPUTATIONAL RISK IMAGE AND If JimmyChoos products, stores, marketing, customer Brand quality is placed at the core of everything the REPUTATION service and corporate profile fail to retain the business does.
OFBR AND distinctive JimmyChoo character, quality and values, brand equity could be reduced and sales impacted.
This ensures close management by all areas of business concerned to retain reputation e. g. design of products, quality of marketing, store environment and client service.
JimmyChoos contracts with licensees are drafted to ensure retention of control of the brand and are rigorously enforced.
CONTROL OF Third party multibrand and franchisee stores could Senior management review distribution partners in WHOLESALE present the brand in a manner not in keeping with advance of accepting them as a JimmyChoo partner.
DISTRIBUTION JimmyChoos brand positioning and DNA, damaging CHANNEL the brand.
JimmyChoos contracts with distribution partners are drafted to ensure control of elements of the brand presentation and are rigorously enforced.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 40 GOVERNANCE WE BELIEVE THAT BRINGING OUTSIDE INVESTORS IN AND EXPOSING THE COMPANY TO PUBLIC SCRUTINY ENSURES THE BEST GOVERNANCE TO DRIVE LONG TERM GROWTH PETER HARF CHAIRMAN OF JIMMYCHOO PLC JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 43
