Principal risks and uncertainties Wood Groups Core Values provide a sound basis on which to make decisions and assist us in considering the broad spectrum of risks and uncertainties that can impact operational and financial performance across the Group.
The risks below include the principal risks faced by the Group during the year which were included in the Board review process carried out during February 2015.
Effective risk management Our leadership teams review specific activities designed to monitor key The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control risks.
This is an ongoing process and we are continually seeking to and risk management which is fundamental to the achievement of the enhance our risk monitoring and reporting tools.
Assurance Our Core Values Various assurance mechanisms are utilised across the Group such as The effective management of risk is necessary across all aspects peer reviews on certain significant or higher risk contracts as well as a of our business model, and our Core Values provide our people, programme of risk based audits performed by the Group Internal Audit customers and suppliers with a clear view of how we operate which function.
This work complements business specific activity in areas such helps frame the risk culture across the Group.
Operations 2014 Developments Our people across our business operations are at the forefront We continue to review our approach to risk management and seek to of effective risk management.
The risk profile across each of our improve associated internal control processes.
Some of the more recent segments varies through the nature of our activities, specific customer developments introduced in 2014 include: contracts and geographic spread, and each segment operates under X the introduction of Group-wide Life Saving Rules to help prevent an established policy and procedural framework which supports our the risk of reoccurring accidents corporate attitude to risk.
X an updated Commercial Intermediaries Policy to support revised Monitoring & Review procedures in relation to the selection, appointment and monitoring The Board formally reviews risk management and internal control of commercial intermediaries who may represent Wood Group arrangements twice a year, usually in February and August, and X the update of impact and likelihood definitions used to assess risks through the course of the year the Board will consider current and to ensure greater consistency of risk assessment across the Group emerging risks facing the Group.
18 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board assessment of change in risk from 2013 No change in risk since 2013 Risk has decreased since 2013 Risk has increased since 2013 Analysis of principal risks Risk profile Mitigation, monitoring and assurance Health, Safety, Security & Environment HSSE Major incident: Poor HSSE performance leading to multiple loss Priority Core Value underpinned by HSSE and integrity of life or significant environmental damage.
Our risk profile in this management systems area has increased through our expansion into construction and Roll out of Safe Home vision and Life Saving Rules which set fabrication activity through our acquisitions in Wood Group PSN in a minimum standard for safe behaviour across the Group the US shale market.
Group Incident Review Panels for high potential and high severity incidents.
Strategic Reduction in demand: A significant and continued reduction Maintain a broad customer base and balance of business in demand for our services due to market changes, client between client capital and operating expenditure investment decisions or major reduction in commodity prices Development of relationship management programmes and focus resulting in a failure to grow.
Our risk profile in this area has on helping customers to operate efficiently and extend asset life increased as a result of the lower oil price environment.
Extensive review of costs in the business, with a particular focus on cost relative to activity levels.
Failed joint venture: Poor approval and start up process Established business and Board approval process for new leading to Joint Venture not operating as intended, and or Joint Ventures adding value.
Wood Group participation on the Boards of Joint Ventures.
Undervaluation risk: Undervaluation of the business Active IR programme resulting in a loss of value for shareholders.
Board consideration of company valuation Annual Board defence review.
Operational Project execution risk: Ineffective project start up, new country Start up and execution plans for key projects supported entry or failure to successfully execute projects to expected quality, by monitoring and reporting on time and within budget.
Group strategy & development team embed learnings from previous projects Quality assurance activity within all our businesses.
Acquisition and integration risk: Failure to identify, assess, Established mergers and acquisitions and diligence processes secure or integrate strategic acquisitions to support growth strategy.
Integration plans and associated monitoring established for new acquisitions Dedicated teams assigned to new acquisitions to support integration.
Collaboration: Inefficiencies in collaboration efforts leading to Development of relationship management programmes missed opportunities where a wider service offering is sought by and focus on collaboration across segments.
Financial Forecasting: Forecast information used to inform business Group and divisional review of budget and reforecast information decisions and external market varies materially from actual results.
Established budgeting and frequent reforecast process Bottom up and top down assessments of budgets and reforecasts.
Working capital management: Material divergence from Reporting and monitoring of days sales outstanding budgeted business unit cash collection and working capital performance and associated incentive plans management.
Management of inventory processes in turbine joint ventures.
Credit risk: Customer fails to settle significant debt.
Credit checks performed Monitoring and reporting of aged debt.
18 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk profile Mitigation, monitoring and assurance People Availability of competent resources: Inability to balance Revised model to support identification and recruitment the identification and retention of qualified and experienced of suitable resource personnel with client demand.
Line management succession planning process monitored by HR teams Training and development programmes refreshed under the Group leadership framework Management of people utilisation.
Compliance Bribery and corruption: Risk associated with a breach Business ethics policy with identified responsible officers of bribery and corruption legislation through an improper payment Annual training programme and associated annual certification e. g bribe facilitation payment.
Heightened risk in relation to third parties working on our behalf or joint venture operations in countries Independent business ethics helpline with a risk of corruption.
Major regulatory investigation: Regulatory investigation Integrity management and quality assurance mechanisms or proceedings relating to non-compliance with HSSE management standards including incident review panels applicable legislation.
Group legal and external counsel support as necessary.
Trade sanctions: Trade with sanctioned countries leading to Maintain a watchlist of economic trade sanctioned countries regulatory enforcement and financial penalties.
Processes established for Group Legal review and approval by Segment Business Unit Director and Group CEO.
Commercial Fixed price lump sum contracting: Risk of significant loss on Group-wide policy on fixed price lump sum contracts fixed price, unit rate or lump sum contracts.
Our risk profile in this developed including approval and assurance processes area has reduced as our significant lump sum turbine contract has Limits established on the value of fixed price lump sum contracts achieved completion during 2014. to be underway at any point in time Lesson learnt reviews undertaken to help embed lessons into business processes Group internal audit review of controls on significant fixed price lump sum contracts.
Contracting risk: Weaknesses in the contract bidding and Established processes for the review and approval of key contracts award process, inappropriate pricing, misalignment of contract terms including price, scope and subcontractor management terms, or failure to comply with contractual conditions could Derogation from the Groups contracting procedure is subject lead to reputational damage, or poor financial performance.
Technology ERP roll out: Failure to deliver current ERP projects on budget Steering Group and associated governance processes for ERP projects and to agreed specification, or to deliver anticipated benefits.
Group wide ERP coordination Committee established to monitor progress and share lessons across each implementation Internal audit involvement across each implementation.
Information security: Loss of data through unauthorised IT security standards and acceptable use policy access, cyber attack or physical loss.
Information security roadmap and associated investment Perimeter security application and end point protection.
20 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 Governance Governance 22 Letter from the Chairman of the Board Statement of Directors responsibilities 23 and compliance Our Board of Directors 24 26 Corporate governance 32 Directors Remuneration Report 20 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John W John Wood Gr ood Group PLC oup PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 21
