18 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 1.
Overview Risks and Uncertainties THE EFFECTIVE IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES ACROSS THE GROUP ARE INTEGRAL TO THE DELIVERY OF THE GROUPS STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES.
The groups approach to risk management process in place for the continuous The diagram on the right outlines is aimed at monitoring material issues review of its risks.
As part of the risk our approach to risk management.
to enable the early identification of key management process, each division The table below sets out what the risks and the taking of action to remove reviews its risks and its mitigation board believes to be the principal risks or reduce the likelihood of those risks strategies and actions and discusses and uncertainties facing the group, occurring and their effect.
The board has relevant risks with each business as the mitigating actions for each and an overall responsibility for ensuring that necessary.
As part of that process, the update on any change in the profile of risk is effectively managed across the most significant risks identified are each risk during the course of 2013 14. group and the Audit Committee is collated into a Group Risk Register.
The board considers that the risk responsible for reviewing the effectiveness The Group Risk Register is reviewed by identified last year associated with of the groups system of internal control.
the Chief Executives Committee CEC pension scheme funding has reduced.
This includes the approach to risk and the board.
Each individual risk is This has therefore been removed from management and procedures for the considered, together with the the principal risks and uncertainties.
identification, assessment, management, effectiveness of current controls and the More detail of the groups pension mitigation, reporting of risk and assurance status and progression of mitigation schemes is included in note 14 on of mitigating actions.
The group has a actions and plans are monitored.
Risk and impact STRATEGIC Responding to, identifying or The groups existing activities are well placed to deliver good growth over the coming capitalising on appropriate new years.
New business areas will help to sustain the groups growth beyond that period.
Failure to identify new business areas or extend the groups portfolio could impact the ability of the group to achieve its strategy and or maintain growth and or market share.
Johnson Matthey operates in highly competitive markets in which technology is key to success.
Constant product innovation is critical to maintain competitive advantage.
Failure to keep up with changes in the market place and to maintain our technology pipeline could result in a lack of competitive products and erosion of margins and or loss of market share.
MARKET Responding to changes in global The global nature of the groups business exposes it to risk arising from economic, political and economic conditions political and legislative change in the countries in which it operates.
Failure to respond to sudden short and medium term changes in the market or economy or a sustained period of economic weakness in our markets could have a material adverse effect on the groups results.
The group has no influence upon changes in inflation, interest rates or other economic factors affecting its business.
In addition, the possibility of political unrest and legal or regulatory changes also exists in countries in which the group operates.
Over 50% of the groups sales are driven by environmental legislation, particularly legislation over emissions from light and heavy duty vehicles.
Further tightening of global emissions legislation generally requires improved technological solutions and the extension of emissions legislation to new applications can create opportunities for the group.
A curtailment in environmental legislation around the world could limit the groups growth potential and undermine profit margins.
19 Overall Board Responsibility for the Management of Risk Audit Committee responsibility to assess the risk management process Risks identified Controls Additional Controls Ongoing by businesses, identified and controls implemented monitoring, Residual risks divisions and considered for included to and tested for assurance prioritised supporting effectiveness bridge gaps effectiveness and reporting functions Overseen and approved by the CEC Mitigation Changes since 2013 annual report The group and each business prepares a strategic plan to review demand in No change.
existing markets and potential new opportunities.
These plans are regularly We continue to target potential new markets monitored and challenged.
and develop new businesses, both organically The group continues to invest in new business development and to identify and and through acquisition.
The progress of convert targets for acquisition.
our new business development activities, including the integration of our battery systems business formerly Axeon, is described on pages 41 to 43.
The group continues to invest in existing and new products and technologies No change.
through R&D including through its technology centres around the world and Our commitment to innovation, research as part of our ten year technology plan.
and development is described throughout There is constant innovation and development in cooperation with our key this annual report.
The group invests in its people to ensure that it maintains a high level of relevant As set out on page 15 we have a network scientific expertise.
During the year we established a centre in South Africa and a further new technology centre in Singapore was officially opened in April 2014.
We invested 152.3 million in R&D in the year 2012 13 136.0 million.
The group maintains a balanced portfolio of products and businesses and No change.
serves a wide range of diverse customers which reduces the impact of a We performed well in 2013 14 and are well change to any one market.
positioned to respond to and benefit from Management continuously monitors the performance of our businesses across legislation changes in both light and heavy the world at both business and group level.
duty catalyst markets over the years ahead Our cost base contains a significant variable element and is flexible to changing as detailed on pages 26 to 29. political and economic conditions.
Forthcoming changes in emissions legislation are well understood and our products are designed to meet these increased requirements.
Profit margins can be maintained with continuous improvements in technology to reduce the cost and improve the effectiveness of our products.
Regular reviews are undertaken to monitor areas of new potential legislation.
Lobbying activities are undertaken where appropriate to improve the understanding of regulatory and legislative bodies.
Increased risk No change Reduced risk Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 20 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 1.
Overview Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk and impact OPERATIONAL Operating safely, including in line with In common with similar manufacturing companies, the group operates in a challenging changes in health, safety, environmental safety environment that is subject to numerous health, safety and environmental laws, and other regulations and standards.
Failure to operate safely and respond to changes made to applicable laws, regulations or standards could adversely impact the groups employees or other stakeholders, our manufacturing capability or the marketability of our products.
The group uses many raw materials within its manufacturing processes.
Several raw materials are available from only a limited number of countries and or suppliers.
Disruption to the supply or a change in the groups ability to access sufficient stocks of these raw materials, most notably platinum group metals, rare earth materials or narcotic raw materials, could adversely affect the groups operations.
This may be due to increased prices or because our ability to manufacture and supply products to customers may be impacted.
The effective recruitment, retention The group relies upon its ability to recruit, retain and develop employees around the and development of high quality staff world with the necessary range of skills and experience to meet its stated objectives, to support the growth of our business.
including in relation to business growth.
The existing management team has many years of experience at Johnson Matthey, operating in the markets and developing the technologies in which the group maintains a presence.
Ineffective succession on the departure of senior management or the lack of an appropriately skilled workforce could adversely impact the groups ability to perform in line with expectations.
On any given day the group has significant quantities of high value precious metals or highly regulated substances on site and in transit, the security of which is critical.
A material loss due to a breach in the groups security measures, including theft or fraud, could be significant to the groups performance.
Intellectual property IP and know-how.
The group operates in markets in which the generation and application of technology know-how and IP allows an advantage to be maintained.
Careful monitoring of competitors IP is required to ensure that breaches of their rights are not made by the group.
Failure to establish the groups IP rights or to identify third parties IP rights could undermine the groups competitive advantage particularly given the groups expansion into new markets.
Alternatively, not noting the expiration of patents held by third parties could mean the loss of potential business opportunities.
Protecting our broader know-how is equally important to ensure that we maintain this advantage.
The group uses a significant number of complex IT systems in its operational and supporting activities, some of which are starting to see the end of their useful life.
Failure of one or more of our major IT systems over an extended period could impact our ability to manufacture or to report our operational performance.
While the group operates from a variety of locations, certain sites are critical to the group due to their scale or the specific nature of their production activities.
Failure of one of our critical sites could significantly impact the performance of the group.
21 Mitigation Changes since 2013 annual report Detailed health, safety and environmental processes are documented in our No change.
operating manuals, communicated and reviewed regularly and used as the basis Our health and safety and environmental for continuous training and development.
performance is described on pages 62 to 67 Robust maintenance programmes are undertaken in order to ensure that our and 70 to 73 respectively.
facilities and assets meet the applicable group and legislative standards.
The group carries out regular internal audits to ensure compliance with current group policies and applicable laws, regulations and standards such as ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
Our quality standards are also scrutinised externally by customers, suppliers and the relevant authorities.
Changes in legislation are carefully monitored and, if required, the composition of our products is amended to comply with the latest legislation.
We are committed to proactive communication and to building open relationships with the authorities and relevant legislative bodies, both directly and through the relevant trade associations.
Although most of the worlds platinum is mined in South Africa, the group has In light of the change in the nature of our access to world markets for platinum and other precious metals and is not contracts with Anglo American Platinum dependent on any one source for obtaining supplies.
Limited effective 1st January 2014 and Appropriate sourcing arrangements are in place for other key raw materials to continued labour unrest in South Africa, ensure that the group is not dependent on any one supplier.
we have concluded that this risk has Where possible the group enters into fixed price contracts for key raw materials.
We are actively We work closely with key suppliers to ensure availability, including through audits, managing this risk, partly through higher benchmarking and specific risk reviews.
We regularly monitor forecast requirements and hold buffer stocks.
We look to identify alternative raw materials where appropriate.
Global employee development programmes are in place.
These include training Although our senior management succession of manufacturing leaders to run our operations in a consistent and efficient way.
has been successfully managed, such a Regular reviews of management succession plans are carried out and are closely change at the top of the group must inherently monitored by the Nomination Committee and Management Development and increase risk.
Global remuneration policies are in place to ensure appropriate rewards to motivate and retain staff.
We undertake a continuous assessment of the skills required within the group and action plans are put in place to address identified gaps.
The group has well developed security, assay and other process controls.
We complete security checks to safeguard both our tangible and intangible assets.
Annual security audits are carried out across the group.
Insurance cover is maintained for losses from theft or fraud.
The group has established policies and procedures for registering patents and for monitoring its existing patent portfolio and those of third parties.
We defend infringement claims and challenge new patents where appropriate.
We continuously evaluate operating restrictions and opportunities available to us through the use of our IP and know-how.
Know-how is protected by non-disclosure agreements and legal measures.
We restrict internal and external access to IP and know-how as necessary.
We complete security checks to safeguard our intangible assets, including cyber checks.
Our investment in technical developments partially mitigates the risks to our IP and know-how.
We continuously review our IT infrastructure and environment and make short There are a number of systems initiatives and long term investments where these are deemed necessary and appropriate.
being undertaken which will result in We identify and implement other systems based or manual work arounds where significant change.
We have therefore these are identified as necessary.
concluded that the level of associated risk IT disaster recovery and general business continuity plans are in place and are has increased and we are using external regularly tested and reviewed.
expertise to help to mitigate this.
A number of systems are bespoke to specific businesses or locations which reduces the impact to the group of a failure in any one system.
Business continuity plans include consideration and testing of circumstances No change.
in which alternative back up locations may be required.
Capacity and demand planning includes consideration of the sites significance.
Given the nature of the groups operating activities, these can be replicated at other locations with reasonable ease and in a short time frame.
Increased risk No change Reduced risk Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
