Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board is responsible for leading the development of a comprehensive risk framework and a system of internal controls.
This is to ensure the Group properly identifies, evaluates, prioritises and addresses the principal risks and uncertainties.
There are general business risks faced by JUST EAT, which are those generally faced by other comparable online businesses.
However, there are also more concentrated risks and uncertainties that affect our specific industry.
The principal risks presented below are those risks considered by the Board to have a potentially material impact on the Group not achieving its long-term strategic objectives.
There may be other risks that affect the Groups performance.
As this is our first Annual Report as a listed Group, the change in the risk status has not been presented.
In the future we plan to report the year on year change in risk status.
Risk description Strategic initiative potentially impacted Impact Controls to mitigate Competition Improving the consumer experience Demand for the Groups services and thereby its In line with our strategic initiatives, we will continue building on and prices, revenues, margin and ultimately its market maintaining our existing market leading positions.
This includes focusing The Group faces competition and potential new entrants Bringing greater choice share could be affected.
on our consumers, our restaurants and new innovation.
to the industry and to the markets in which the Group The Group continues to expand its restaurant network and Active Users currently operates.
Driving channel shift in order to satisfy the increasing consumer demand.
Regulation and legislation Bringing greater choice Costs could be incurred in ensuring compliance with As part of their Continuing Professional Development each member of any new laws or regulations.
Non-compliance could the legal team regularly attends training sessions at external law firms Regulation and legislation for the food industry in key Driving channel shift be damaging to the Groups reputation, and result in which are Law Society accredited courses, in order to ensure they markets around the world can change, sometimes at penalties and heightened risk in the industry.
remain abreast of developments in legislation and case law which could short notice.
potentially affect our areas of practice.
This enables us to identify, New regulation or legislation could materially impact assess and adapt to changes in the regulatory and legal environment.
the behaviour of restaurants and or consumers in our In key markets, regular communication is maintained, in conjunction sector to our detriment.
with the commercial functions of the business, with different regulatory authorities such as trading standards and other Government agencies.
Culture Improving the consumer experience Loss of culture may cause key employees to We focus on reinforcing the cultural JUST EAT JAM values in all leave or operate differently within the business, manner of activities that staff are engaged in from work to social The Groups culture may change detrimentally as the Bringing greater choice resulting in a loss of crucial knowledge and or events.
Further information on the JUST EAT culture is provided in the business grows.
Driving channel shift Specially appointed employees are engaged to ensure the JUST EAT culture is promoted throughout the business led proactively by senior management where appropriate.
We recognise the importance of attracting and retaining our highly qualified employees and strive to maintain a positive working environment which encourages innovation.
36 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Risk description Strategic initiative potentially impacted Impact Controls to mitigate Competition Improving the consumer experience Demand for the Groups services and thereby its In line with our strategic initiatives, we will continue building on and prices, revenues, margin and ultimately its market maintaining our existing market leading positions.
com 37 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk description Strategic initiative potentially impacted Impact Controls to mitigate Technology dependency Improving the consumer experience The inability to satisfy changing consumer demand The Group has invested and committed considerable resources into will result in reputational damage and financial loss.
upgrading its existing technology, IT infrastructure, communication High dependency on technology and advanced information Bringing greater choice systems, as well as developing and acquiring new platforms systems and the risk that such technology or systems could and products.
fail or could not be scaled rapidly to meet business needs.
A continuous testing programme is employed to ensure that a continued In particular, any damage to, or failure of online systems and high-quality of product offerings and services are maintained.
servers via external attack such as DDOS, access to JCT Continual monitoring of the market is performed by a dedicated team terminals and other restaurant systems, could result in to ensure all new developments are assessed for their impact on interruptions to consumer services.
The Group has a business recovery plan to minimise the disruption experienced during any potential service interruption.
The Group carefully monitors all new products in development and invests in high-calibre support when required.
Data protection Improving the consumer experience Reputational damage and financial losses arising from Security systems are deployed to protect transactional data and penalties and fines.
sophisticated security mechanisms are used to ensure all sensitive and The risk of consumer data being accessed Driving channel shift confidential data is fully encrypted.
The Group has established processes and systems to detect misuse of systems in order to reduce the likelihood of data loss.
We employ a dedicated team led by our Head of Information Security who is responsible for mitigating IT security violation risks.
Business growth Bringing greater choice Fragmentation of new or expanded operations, which We have a dedicated mergers and acquisitions team who focuses on are not aligned with the Groups strategy.
Loss of completion and integration planning for acquisitions.
Challenges in growing the business both organically control resulting in financial or reputational damage.
We have a proven track record for successfully integrating our previous and through mergers and acquisitions and scaling acquisitions in France and Switzerland, as well as in-market acquisitions those operations.
Consumer behaviour Driving channel shift The potential reduction in existing consumer loyalty The Group continues to focus on building market leading services to and an inability to attract new consumers.
improve its proposition to its consumer base.
Consumer behaviour can change over time.
We also remain engaged with both our consumers and the restaurant estate to understand any changes in the way they use the Groups services, through such tools as consumer reviews.
Corporate regulation Driving channel shift If the Groups does not comply with required The Group employs an experienced Company Secretary to ensure that regulation we could face regulatory censure and all Listing Rules are applied.
Non-compliance with corporate regulation such as the Listing potential penalties.
All employees complete online compliance courses and further training Rules, especially as these requirements are new to the Group is provided where required.
We continuingly evolve the compliance following our listing this year.
programme to ensure it is appropriate for our industry and size.
Senior staff with previous experience working within a listed Group, have been recruited and training provided to existing senior staff, to ensure we have the relevant knowledge in-house.
38 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Risk description Strategic initiative potentially impacted Impact Controls to mitigate Technology dependency Improving the consumer experience The inability to satisfy changing consumer demand The Group has invested and committed considerable resources into will result in reputational damage and financial loss.
