STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW MANAGING OUR RISKS The Group is focused on the identification, assessment and appropriate to the operation of the Groups business.
It comprises management of risk by ensuring that appropriate internal risk identification, assessment and management processes, together controls are in place across the business.
Risk management with risk response and monitoring activities.
is of core importance in protecting the Groups stakeholders, The Board determines the Group risk strategy and the degree shaping its strategy and maintaining its reputation.
of risk required in order to fulfil its strategic goals.
Overall The Groups approach to internal control is business risk driven, management of these risks is vested in the Board, with the Audit with an emphasis on operational, compliance and financial risks.
Committee reviewing the Groups risk management framework Management has continued to develop the Groups risk evaluation and the Projects Assurance Committee assessing the Groups process with risk profiling exercises undertaken by operating major growth projects at Bozshakol and Aktogay.
businesses to identify, evaluate and control risk.
Further details The Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee monitors of the Groups approach to internal control are set out in the health, safety and environmental risks across the Group whilst the Governance Framework section on pages 77 and 78.
Remuneration Committee ensures that the remuneration structure Risk management does not encourage excessive risk-taking by management.
The Board has approved a formalised but pragmatic Group risk The Group Risk Manager coordinates the risk assessment and management framework.
This framework is designed to provide identification activities, as well as facilitating the development assurance that risks are identified and managed in a manner of appropriate responses to identified risks.
Details of the process RISK GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Board Determines the Groups risk appetite by assessing the principal risks to the Group and the level of risk that Assurance is acceptable to the Group in pursuing its business strategy, ensuring that risks are mitigated and kept under Internal audit review and that appropriate controls are in place department Assesses assurance Audit Committee Group Health, Safety and Remuneration Committee processes and advises Reviews the adequacy and Establishes a remuneration Environment Committee management effectiveness of the Groups policy for the Groups senior Reviews reports of significant Human resources system of internal control management conducive to the health, safety and environmental long-term success of the Group department risks and actions being taken to Reviews reports on significant without encouraging excessive remove or mitigate them Implements policies which risks and controls risk-taking support good practice of Receives and reviews reports health and safety principles by the use of disciplinary from internal audit procedures where necessary and a system of reward for good practices Speak-Up helpline External anonymous Identification, assessment and mitigation reporting system Risk profiling Site assessment Projects Assurance Anti-Bribery and Risk profiling exercises are Risk assessments of key sites Committee Corruption conducted by operational conducted by the Group Risk Assesses the Groups major Policies, procedures, management in conjunction with Manager and independent growth projects by reviewing monitoring and training the Group Risk Manager to experts reports and communicating identify, assess and control with the assurance team and business risks the project director 28 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT s s e s s A R e s p o n d y f i t For more information, see pages 58 Principal Risks 72 Governance Framework for identifying and managing the Groups risks are set out below New projects and further information on the risks identified with mitigating Change management actions, where relevant, are set out in the Principal Risks Employees section on pages 58 to 63.
Suppliers and contractors Risk profile Labour and community relations Once the Groupsprincipal risks have been identified, each Reserves and resources risk is then assessed on the basis of likelihood of occurrence Compliance risks and impact on the Group.
The principal risks are placed onto KAZ Minerals operations, financial results and reputation may be the Group risk map and regularly reviewed to ensure mitigating adversely affected by a failure to comply with regulatory and actions are in place and that they continue to be accurately statutory requirements.
The following risks represent theprincipal represented as to their probability and impact.
There are also compliance risks identified by management: other risks which have been identified by management but are not considered to be principal risks at the current time.
These risks are Subsoil use rights also placed onto the Group risk map but are identified as risks Environmental compliance being closely monitored by management.
The risks set out below Financial risks are not in order of likelihood of occurrence or materiality and KAZ Minerals operations, financial results and reputation may be should be viewed, as with any forward looking statements in this adversely affected by the Groups financial strategy and changes in document, with regard to the cautionary statement on page 183. the global economy.
The following risks represent theprincipal Operational risks financial risks identified by management: KAZ Minerals operations, financial results and reputation may Commodity prices be adversely affected by a number of internal and external factors impacting its businesses and employees.
The following risks Exposure to China represent theprincipal operational risks identified by management: Acquisitions and divestments Liquidity Health and safety Taxation Business interruption Political A full description of our principal risks, including impact and mitigating actions, can be found on pages 58 to 63.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK HOW WE PROFILE OUR RISK REPORTING 3 Significant risks which are regularly reviewed 2 Closely monitored risks 1 0 1 2 3 Probability www.
