DIRECTORS REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS MANAGING OUR RISKS The significant risks identified by KAZ Minerals are those that could materially affect the Groups financial condition, performance, strategy and prospects.
There may be other risks unknown, or currently believed immaterial by the Group, which might become material.
The Groups risk profile has changed following the completion of the Restructuring which is reflected in the commentary on the risks.
The risks set out below are not in order of likelihood of occurrence or materiality and should be viewed, as with any forward looking statements in this document, with regard to the cautionary statement on page 183.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Health and safety are designed to identify relevant risks and Description Impact opportunities and provide a clear framework for Mining is a hazardous industry with inherent risks Health and safety incidents could lead to a conducting business.
With the completion of the and the failure to adopt and embed health and number of adverse consequences, including Restructuring, the reduced scale of the continuing safety management systems could result in harm harm to people, as well as production disruption, operations creates the opportunity to increase to the Groups employees, contractors or local financial loss and reputational damage.
Reputational the pace at which new practices and standards communities.
Fatality levels within the Group damage could negatively impact the Groups ability are introduced by the Group.
The open-pit are higher than at comparable internationally to attract and retain employees, affect the Groups mines and modern processing facilities that the listed mining companies with 13 fatalities, standing in the local community, relations with the Group is developing at Bozshakol and Aktogay including four contractors recorded for 2014 Government, reduce the Groups access to finance will also provide inherently safer operating 2013: 18, including three contractors.
and the attractiveness of the Group to investors.
Action Further details on the measures being taken to KAZ Minerals recognises that the highest improve health and safety practices, including the standards of health and safety practices are vital work of the Groups HSE function, are set out to its success and are a key responsibility of all in the Corporate Responsibility Report employees.
The Groups goal is for zero fatalities commencing on page 64. and to minimise the number of incidents.
The Groups policies and procedures in these areas Business interruption impact of business disruption.
The continuing Description Impact operations mines and concentrators are, The Groups mining and processing operations Any disruption to operational activities could however, geographically diversified, which are resource intensive, and could be subject have a negative impact on the Groups profitability potentially mitigates a single incident causing to a number of risks, including, but not limited and cash flows, may require the Group to incur widespread disruption across the operations.
to: geological and technological challenges: unplanned capital expenditure, may result in harm weather and other natural phenomena such to people and may cause environmental damage.
A combined property damage and business as floods and earthquakes: fires, explosions: In addition to the aforementioned consequences, interruption catastrophic insurance programme equipment failures: delays in supplies or services: business interruption could result in a loss of is in place which can provide protection from and loss of key inputs including electricity and customers and reputational damage.
some of the financial loss arising from a major water, which could cause prolonged shutdowns incident at the Groups concentrating facilities or periods of reduced production from the Action or an incident at a facility of a key external Groups mines and concentrators.
Work is being undertaken across the Group, supplier.
Should a major outage occur at the with the support of appropriate in-house and Balkhash smelter where the Groups concentrate third-party specialists, to address operational is currently processed into copper cathode, risks.
With the completion of the Restructuring, gold bar and silver granule, the Group believes the Group is more reliant on a smaller number it could sell concentrate directly to customers.
of operating assets, in particular the Orlovsky and Artemyevsky mines, increasing the relative 58 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT Political Description Impact Action The Groups mining operations and development Changes to foreign trade export and import, KAZ Minerals maintains a proactive dialogue projects are all based in Kazakhstan, except the foreign investments, property, tax, environmental with the Governments of both Kazakhstan and Bozymchak mine, which is located in Kyrgyzstan.
and subsoil use regimes, social responsibility Kyrgyzstan across a range of issues, including The Groups operational and financial performance expectations or other changes that affect the subsoil use regulations, taxation, the environment is impacted by the social, political, economic, legal business environment in Kazakhstan and and social responsibility and community relations.
and fiscal conditions prevailing in both countries.
Kyrgyzstan could negatively affect the Groups The Government of Kazakhstan has actively business, financial position and performance pursued a programme of economic reform, and decisions on future investments.
The helping to make it one of the most politically changes may also lead to reputational damage, in stable and economically developed countries in particular with investors, and potentially the loss Central Asia.
Political, legal and regulatory of licences to operate assets within the Group.
developments affecting the Groups operations and development projects are monitored closely.
The Board continues to view the political, social and economic environment within Kazakhstan favourably and looking forward remains optimistic about the conditions for business in the region.
New projects liquidity and financial performance.
A reduction For the development of the major growth Description in future production volumes would also increase projects the Group is utilising the services The development of new projects involves the cash cost on a per unit basis.
A lack of of Non Ferrous China to provide additional many risks including geological, engineering, available funding may also prevent or delay resources primarily for the construction and procurement, staffing, financing and regulatory the completion of projects.
commissioning of the Bozshakol sulphide and risks.
If the Group fails to adopt an appropriate clay processing plants.
Non Ferrous China are procurement and project management strategy also constructing and commissioning the sulphide Action it may experience delays to project schedules Prior to an investment decision being made, processing plant at Aktogay with the other and an increase in development costs.
Regulatory sections of the project divided between several certain evaluation activities are performed risks include failures to obtain and maintain including, where appropriate, feasibility and smaller contractors.
The Projects Assurance applicable permits, licences or approvals from Committee regularly assesses the operational other technical studies.
Significant projects are the relevant authorities to perform certain subject to the Groups capital appraisal process, and financial status of the projects to identify any development work.
material risks to their successful commissioning including Board review and approval as they progress.
There are also a number of planning and start-up.
In respect of project funding, Impact committed financing is in place for Bozshakol and monitoring procedures in place addressing Projects may fail to achieve the desired the management of capital expenditure within and Aktogay.
Details on the current status of economic returns due to an inability to recover the major growth projects is included in the the Group.
The Group ensures that sufficient mineral resources as planned and where the expertise, from both in-house and third-party Operating Review on pages 42 and 43. capital and operating costs of the projects are specialists, is utilised on projects throughout higher than expected.
Projects may also fail to their life cycle.
complete or suffer delays which may reduce future production volumes affecting the Groups Change management Description Impact Action The Group completed the Restructuring in The significant changes arising from the The Restructuring, which was overseen by 2014, which included the disposal of the mining, Restructuring may adversely affect the operating the Board, was managed by a cross-functional processing and captive power operations in the and financial performance of the continuing project team within the Group and supported Zhezkazgan and Central Regions.
As a result, operations, the implementation of other by external advisers.
KAZ Minerals will continue KAZ Minerals has undergone significant changes initiatives as well as labour, community and to evolve with the potential appointment of to its operations, management structure, Government relations.
new service providers, the pursuit of operational business processes and systems.
efficiencies and the enhancement of existing systems.
The Group engages with key stakeholders, including representatives of the workforce and the local and national Government on relevant major changes.
com 59 DIRECTORS REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED OPERATIONAL RISKS CONTINUED Employees Description Impact Action The Groups future development will be partly Labour productivity, skill levels, efficiency and The Group actively monitors the market dependent on its ability to attract and retain turnover may have direct influence on the to remain competitive in the hiring of staff.
highly skilled and qualified personnel.
KAZ Groups ability to provide a safe and efficient KAZ Minerals has an extensive social benefits Minerals competes against local and international working environment, fulfil its production plans programme for its employees and their mining and industrial companies to attract skilled and its financial performance.
The ability to dependants and invests in training facilities and personnel into the business.
The remote location attract, train and retain the skilled staff for staff development to raise skill levels.
Providing of some of the Groups operations also makes the Bozshakol and Aktogay operations team employees with a safe working environment the attraction and retention of skilled staff at may directly affect the financial and operating is also a fundamental priority.
The Bozshakol these sites more challenging.
The hiring of skilled performance of the development projects.
and Aktogay operations teams have a detailed personnel will be essential for the successful A shortage of skilled employees could increase recruitment and training plan which is currently operation of the Bozshakol and Aktogay projects.
the Groups operating costs as wages are being implemented.
increased to recruit the required staff.
Suppliers and contractors reliant on transportation and logistics providers Description Action to move people, production materials and The Groups reliance on services and materials The performance of the Balkhash smelter finished goods.
provided by external suppliers and contractors is closely monitored and whilst it is not as has increased following the completion of financially attractive, the concentrate from Impact the Restructuring as the Group is no longer the East Region could be shipped to China for If there is any interruption to the supply of: mining a vertically integrated producer of copper.
processing should a significant outage occur equipment: materials: smelting: electricity supply Smelting, electricity supply, shaft sinking, auxiliary at the smelter.
The Group is investigating the and transmission: shaft sinking and auxiliary construction and maintenance services may be option of using alternative suppliers for a construction: transportation: and maintenance provided from the Disposal Assets, now owned number of services currently provided by services then this may have a negative effect by Cuprum Holding, a related party.
The Group also actively on the Groups financial position and ability to suppliers are not owned by KAZ Minerals, there monitors the market for mining equipment operate effectively.
Inflation on services, mining can be no guarantee that these services or other and supplies to remain competitive in the equipment and supplies will increase operating services sourced externally will be provided, or procurement of mining equipment and supplies.
and capital costs which will affect the Groups will be provided to the standards required by The Group ensures that the appropriate financial performance, and these factors the Group or will not be subject to delay, monitoring and disclosure procedures are together may impact the economic viability of interruption or periods of non-availability.
in place for related party transactions.
Failing to properly In periods of increased demand, supplies may manage related party transactions could result not always be readily available which can result in litigation, regulatory censure and reputational in an increase in lead times and cost inflation damage for KAZ Minerals.
The actions of for raw materials and items such as mining suppliers and contractors could give rise to equipment.
The Group is reliant on the services reputational damage and potential liabilities of specialist contractors for the development of for KAZ Minerals.
KAZ Minerals is also Labour and community relations reputation as well as its ability to bring projects Description Impact into operation.
Support provided to communities Many of the Groups employees are represented Poor employee relations influenced by internal may adversely impact the Groups cash flows.
by labour unions under various collective labour and external factors could result in an unstable agreements.
Negotiations of wages may become workforce that disrupts operations or seeks more difficult in times of higher commodity prices wage increases and other forms of compensation, Action A full engagement strategy with community as labour unions may seek wage increases and having a material adverse effect on the Groups representatives, unions and employees operates other forms of additional compensation.
The Groups exposure within the Group which aims to address concerns addition, the Groups employees may seek wage to labour costs has decreased due to the raised by different stakeholders.
The Group also increases outside the collective labour agreements Restructuring with a reduction in the workforce has a social programme for its employees and and labour agreements may not prevent a strike from 53,000 at the start of the year to under their dependants.
The Group works closely with or work stoppage.
Labour unions may resist 10,000 at 31 December 2014.
The major growth the local authorities on social matters.
The measures to raise labour efficiency.
projects of Bozshakol and Aktogay are only number of employees within the Group has expected to employ 1,500 workers at each site.
The Group currently operates in the East Region decreased as a result of the Restructuring along and at Bozymchak where it is a major employer The dependence of certain communities on the with the number of local communities which are and may also provide targeted support to the Group for employment and the provision of dependent on the Groups operations, and the local community.
Community expectations are services may impose restrictions on the Groups regions where Group operations are now located typically complex with the potential for multiple flexibility in taking certain operating decisions and are also more economically diverse.
Further inconsistent stakeholder views that may be could have a material adverse effect on the details of the Groups social programme are set difficult to resolve.
Industrial accidents, health and Groups financial position.
Failure to manage out in the Corporate Responsibility Report safety and environmental incidents may negatively relationships with local communities, government commencing on page 64. affect the Groups community relationships.
and non-governmental organisations may disrupt operations and negatively affect the Groups 60 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT Reserves and resources Description Impact Action KAZ Minerals ore reserves for operating mines Changes in ore reserves and mineral resources The Groups ore reserves and mineral resources and development projects are largely based on could adversely impact mine plans and the are published in accordance with the criteria of the estimation method for reserves and economic viability of development projects the JORC Code.
KAZ Minerals engages the resources established by the former Soviet resulting in economic losses, negatively impacting services of independent technical experts Union.
There are numerous uncertainties the Groups financial position and performance.
annually to convert reserve and resource inherent in estimating ore reserves and After the completion of the Restructuring, the calculations for operating mines and geological, technical and economic assumptions Group is now dependent on production from a development projects from the estimation that were valid at the time of estimation may smaller number of mines and the confirmation method established by the former Soviet Union change significantly when new information of reserves at each mine is therefore more to the method prescribed by the JORC Code.
critical to future production levels.
The Groups ore reserves and mineral resources were last audited in 2010 by an independent technical expert.
Drilling and exploration programmes are conducted by the Group to enhance the understanding of geological information at the deposits.
Further details are provided in the disclosure on ore reserves and mineral resources commencing on page 178.
COMPLIANCE RISKS Subsoil use rights Description Impact Action In Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan all subsoil reserves As many of Kazakhstans subsoil use laws have The Groups management makes every effort belong to the State.
Subsoil use rights are not been adopted relatively recently and remain to engage with the relevant regulatory authorities granted in perpetuity and any renewal must untested in the countrys judicial system, the and ensure compliance with all relevant legislation be agreed before the expiration of the relevant legal consequences of a given breach may not and subsoil use contracts.
The Groups procedures contract or licence.
Rights may be terminated be predictable.
However, non-compliance with to ensure compliance with the terms of subsoil if the Group does not satisfy its licensing or the requirements of subsoil use contracts could contracts have been updated to reflect the contractual obligations, which may include potentially lead to regulatory challenges and requirements of legislation, including more financial commitments to State authorities subsequently to fines, litigation and ultimately active procurement of goods and services from and the satisfaction of mining, development, to the loss of operating licences.
The loss of any Kazakhstan.
In 2014, over half of the goods and environmental, social, and health and safety of the Groups subsoil use rights could have a services used by the continuing operations were requirements.
In recent years, legislation material adverse effect on its mining operations.
A specialist department relating to subsoil use rights has increased is also tasked with monitoring compliance with the licence obligations, technical documentation, terms of the subsoil use contracts.
work programmes and the level of goods and services sourced from Kazakhstan.
The authorities have also increased their monitoring of compliance with legislation and subsoil use contract requirements.
Environmental compliance Description Impact Action The Group operates in an industry that is A violation of environmental laws, or failure The Group has policies and procedures in place subject to numerous environmental laws to comply with the instructions of the relevant which set out the required operating standards and regulations.
As regulatory standards and authorities, could lead to the suspension of for all employees and monitors its emissions.
requirements continually develop, the Group operating licences, challenges to subsoil use mining The Group liaises with the relevant governmental may be exposed to increased compliance costs rights, fines and penalties, the imposition of costly bodies on environmental matters, including the and environmental emission charges.
Policies compliance procedures, reputational damage and development of new legislation.
The completion and measures at a national and international financial loss.
New or amended environmental of the Restructuring has changed the Groups level to tackle climate change will increasingly legislation or regulations may result in increased asset base with the disposal of mining, affect the business, thereby presenting greater operating costs, additional capital investment or, concentrating, power and smelting facilities environmental and regulatory risks.
in the event of the Groups non-compliance, reducing KAZ Minerals environmental footprint.
the possibility of fines, penalties or other actions Energy consumption, water usage and waste which may adversely affect the Groups financial generation have fallen as a result of the performance and reputation.
Emissions charges Restructuring, but will continue to be high priority in Kazakhstan have been increasing over recent areas for our East Region environmental years and the authorities are adopting an programme.
Further details of the environmental increasingly robust stance on compliance measures being taken by the Group are set out in with environmental standards.
the Corporate Responsibility Report commencing on page 64. www.
com 61 DIRECTORS REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED FINANCIAL RISKS Commodity prices movements on the Groups financial position Description Impact prior to the ramp up in output from the The Groups policy is to sell its products under Commodity prices can fluctuate widely and major growth projects.
Further details on contract at prices determined by reference to could have a material impact on the Groups the performance of the markets in which prevailing market prices on international global asset values, revenues, earnings, cash flows the Group operates are set out in the Market metal exchanges.
The Groups financial results and growth prospects.
Overview section commencing on page 22. are strongly influenced by commodity prices, in particular copper and the major by-products, Action gold, silver and zinc.
At the start of 2015, the The Group regularly reviews its sensitivity to LME copper price has traded below $5,500 per fluctuations in commodity prices.
The Group tonne, compared to an average of $6,862 per does not as a matter of course hedge commodity tonne in 2014.
The prices for these metals are prices, but may enter into a hedge programme dependent on a number of factors, including for certain commodities where the Board world supply and demand and investor sentiment.
determines it is in the Groups interest to provide In particular, KAZ Minerals is exposed to demand greater certainty over future cash flows.
The from China as described below, a major consumer Group adopts a prudent approach in its financial of the metals which the Group produces.
Due planning and investment appraisal, reflecting the to these factors, commodity prices may be volatility in commodity prices.
The Restructuring subject to significant fluctuations, which could of the Group has led to a reduction in copper have a positive or negative impact on the cathode and by-product output in the near term Groups financial results.
reducing the financial impact of commodity price Exposure to China the event that demand reduced in China for the Description Impact Groups finished products, KAZ Minerals would In addition to the impact of Chinese demand on Changes to Chinas fiscal or regulatory regimes allocate its sales between the two markets to the pricing of KAZ Minerals major products, as or lower Chinese copper consumption could improve the commercial terms obtained.
The noted under the Commodity prices risk above, reduce demand in China for the Groups major financing line for Bozshakol has been drawn and the Group makes significant physical sales to a products, leading the Group to direct a greater the Aktogay loan agreement is a committed loan limited number of customers in China.
In 2014, volume of sales to its other major market, facility, thereby providing greater certainty over sales to China accounted for a significant portion Europe.
Changes to Chinese government policy the funding of the Groups growth projects.
of the continuing operations revenues.
Sales on credit or cross border lending may affect KAZ Minerals also maintains relationships with to China are likely to increase further when the availability of financing from Chinese banks a number of international lending banks, having production commences from the major growth to the Group.
the PXF facility in place, and has the flexibility projects.
In addition, the Group uses contractors, to consider other sources of capital such as services and materials from China.
China is also Action the bond or equity markets, if so required.
an important source of financing to the Group The Group has historically sold a significant with long-term debt facilities secured which volume of its copper cathode production into provide access to funding of $3.6 billion at Europe, as well as into China, thereby taking 31 December 2014, primarily for the advantage of its geographic position which development of Bozshakol and Aktogay.
provides access to both major markets.
In Acquisitions and divestments Description Impact Action In the course of delivering its strategy, the Group Changing market conditions, incorrect Specialised staff are assigned to manage may acquire or dispose of assets or businesses.
assumptions or deficiencies in due diligence corporate transactions, supported where Corporate transactions may, however, fail to processes could result in acquisitions failing to appropriate by external advisers.
Due diligence achieve the expected benefit or value to the deliver the expected benefit or value to the processes are undertaken on acquisitions Group.
All business combinations or acquisitions Group, leading to adverse financial performance and material transactions are subject to Board entail a number of risks including the cost of and failure to meet expectations.
Acquisitions review and approval, including ensuring the effectively integrating acquisitions to realise could also lead to the Group assuming liability transaction is aligned with the Groups strategy, synergies, significant write-offs or restructuring for the past acts of acquired businesses, without consideration of the key assumptions being charges, unanticipated costs and liabilities and recourse to other parties.
The disposal of assets applied and the risks identified.
For the loss of key personnel.
The Restructuring was or businesses may not achieve the expected Restructuring, the Group engaged external effected under the laws and regulations of proceeds due to changing market conditions, advisers to support the transaction.
Kazakhstan which are subject to change and reductions in value, delays in the sale or open to interpretation, including the legal and deficiencies in the sales process.
tax aspects of the Restructuring which could give rise to liabilities for KAZ Minerals.
62 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT Liquidity The Group has secured committed funding for Description Action the development of Bozshakol and Aktogay.
The Group is exposed to liquidity risks, including The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining In October 2014, KAZ Minerals announced the risk that borrowing facilities are not available adequate committed borrowing facilities and the signing of an amendment to its existing to meet cash requirements, and the risk that working capital funds.
Surplus funds within the PXF facility.
The commitments from the existing financial assets cannot readily be converted to Group are held predominantly in the UK in syndicate of lending banks at 31 December 2014 cash without significant loss of value.
order to manage counterparty and liquidity risk.
totalled $349 million, with existing or new The Board monitors the net debt level of the lenders able to increase the facility up to Impact Group taking into consideration the expected $500 million prior to 31 December 2015. outlook of the Groups financial position, cash Failure to manage financing risks could have The facility also contains amendments to the a material impact on the Groups cash flows, flows and future capital commitments.
KAZ covenant package including the suspension of Minerals adopts a prudent approach in managing its earnings and financial position as well as reducing the net debt to EBITDA ratio covenant until the funds available to the Group for working liquidity risk, reflecting the volatility in commodity 1 July 2016.
Further details are set out in the prices.
The completion of the Restructuring capital, capital expenditure, acquisitions, dividends Financial Review on pages 55 and 56. and other general corporate purposes.
resulted in the disposal of a number of assets which were expected to generate negative cash flows under the existing organisational structure, which has improved the liquidity outlook for the Group during the construction of the major growth projects.
Taxation Description Impact Action As the tax legislation in Kazakhstan and The uncertainty of interpretation, application The Group makes every effort to comply with Kyrgyzstan has been in force for a relatively and the evolution of tax laws creates a risk that existing tax legislation, and works closely with short period of time, the tax risks in these additional and substantial payments of tax could the Government and tax authorities in the review countries are substantially greater than typically arise for the Group, which could have a material of proposed amendments to tax legislation and found in countries with more established tax adverse effect on the Groups cash flows, financial regulation.
Further details of the Groups tax systems.
Tax law is evolving and is subject to performance and position.
Failure to comply with strategy and risk management are set out in different and changing interpretations, as well as tax laws could also impact the Groups reputation the Financial Reviewon pages 56 and 57. inconsistent enforcement.
Tax regulation and in the countries in which it operates.
compliance is subject to review and investigation by the authorities who may impose severe fines, penalties and interest charges.
