STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management Principal risks and uncertainties As with all businesses, we are affected by a number of risks and uncertainties, of which some are beyond our control.
The table below shows the principal risks and uncertainties which could have a material adverse effect on the Group and have been identified through the risk management framework on page 37.
This is not an exhaustive list and there may be risks and uncertainties of which currently we are unaware, or which are believed to be immaterial, which could have an adverse effect on the business.
In the previous year we also included risks in relation to business continuity, increasing compliance requirements from customers and competition in the Hull and East Yorkshire area.
We are still closely managing these risks, but these are not currently considered to be among the key risks facing the business and therefore these have not been reported on specifically below.
Change in Area level of risk Why is it important?
What are we doing to mitigatetherisk?
How does this link to our Groupstrategy?
Risks continuing from last year Our networks and IT systems are key to all that we do and are crucial As the risk has increased, so has our work to mitigate the risk.
We Security and resilience of our in delivering service to our customers.
The risk in the year has have implemented increased security and we continue to closely networks and ITsystems increased due to an increase in external security threats, including monitor any attempted attacks and take actions where necessary to This links directly to our processes and systems, as well as being key larger volume of attacks intended to create a denial of service.
ensure we have robust security in place.
We have held the ISO 27001 to our customer pillar as ensuring security of our networks and IT Information Security Management standard since 2007 and also systems is a clear customer need.
comply with other security standards as required by our customers.
Security of customer data, whether it belongs to a business or We have rolled out mandatory information security training and Accuracy, security and anindividual, is of paramount importance to our customers and dataprotection training to all our people and have a clear Data confidentiality of customer data therefore to us.
The potential risk to data security has increased Governance policy in place, which contains specific handling inthe year asa result of the increased volume of external attacks guidelines for different types of data.
Any incidents, however minor, This has a direct impact on our customers and also links to seen across all industries.
are investigated and control improvements implemented where ourprocesses and systems pillar as our processes and systems play necessary to ensure that we keep our customer data secure at apivotal role in keeping our data accurate, secure and confidential.
Delivering exceptional service to our customers is one of our key We have continued to invest in our people and our systems to Customer service and delivery strategic aims and therefore the risk of failing to do this is a key risk ensurethat we have the right people in the right roles and thatthey for us to mitigate.
have the right tools toprovide an exceptional service.
We also work closely with our partners to ensure that they are aligned with us in This links to all aspects of our Group strategy and is key to the delivering the bestservice possible.
Recruiting and retaining the right people is crucial for the success of Our People Strategy is focused on creating a workplace which not Recruitment and retention the Group in meeting our objectives.
This applies not only to being only attracts top talent but also retains those people that are key to oftheright people able to recruit people who embody our values, but also to recruiting delivering on our objectives.
During the year we have focused on people with specific technical skills where needed, some of which communicating total reward packages to our people to ensure that Recruiting and retaining the right people is part of the people pillar may be in short supply.
It also involves developing the skills in-house everyone understands their total reward.
We have also been creating ofour Group strategy, whilst also having an impact on our customers and creating internal mobility around deploying those skills.
acompetency framework across the Group, which will enable us to and the level of service that they receive.
create more career opportunities for individuals internally and to respond to our customers with greater agility.
Our business model means that we arereliant on several key partners We have dedicated teams to work alongside our key partners and we Reliance on key third party to deliver service to our customers and to provide the equipment that monitor all of our partnerships closely so that any potential issues are partnersand suppliers we need to deliver the right solutions: such as BT, Comms-Care, identified and resolved before becoming significant.
We have also ForgeRock, Cisco, Avaya, Amazon Web Services, Microsoft andIBM.
multiple partners in key risk areas to mitigate the risk in the event This links directly to the partners pillar of our Group strategy offailure of one partner.
Change in level of risk key: No change Increased risk Decreased risk KCOM Group PLC 18 Annual report and accounts 2013 14 Strategic report Change in Area level of risk Why is it important?
Strategic pillars key: Customers People Partners Processes and systems KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 14 19
