Principal risks and uncertainties The nature of the industries and the business environment in which the Group operates are inherently risky.
Although it is recognised that it is not possible to eliminate all such risks and uncertainties, the Group has well-established risk management and internal control systems a more detailed description may be found on pages 65 to 66.
We reviewed and assessed the risks below: Risk Strategy Mitigation Ranking Change Main causes impact post from 2013 of movement mitigation 2 Funding Cash flow is forecast regularly so as to provide 4 The Property division relies heavily on capital up-to-date and accurate information on the provided by the Group, while the Construction and Groups cash position and its requirements.
Services divisions rely heavily on Group bonding Borrowing facilities have been recently renegotiated facilities.
Without these, revenue and profit and extended.
The Group has strong, long-term would reduce.
relationships with its bondsmen and has an in-house team which monitors headroom and advises on bond terms and conditions.
The Investment Committee is responsible for approving capital investment and optimising the allocation of capital.
The market 2 The Group has a structure to manage and mitigate 8 The Groups strategy is dependent on the planned risk with the following key components: level of expenditure within both the public and A wide geographic regional network of offices private sectors.
Whilst there are early signs of across the UK well integrated into local recovery within global economies there is the risk communities, the client base and the that business opportunities assumed within the supply chain: Groups strategy are delayed.
Smaller markets will A high number of framework agreements and result in both lower revenues for the Group and partnerships with government, local authorities lower margins due to more competitive bidding.
and the private sector: and A strong sector diversity allowing it to react to evolving opportunities in the marketplace.
The Group also carries out monthly and quarterly reviews of its workload and forecasts its overhead levels as a percentage of future work in order to maintain a steady ratio of overhead costs to revenue.
Fuel and other materials that are in high demand, such as steel, are hedged or forwardpurchased when deemed necessary.
Tender pricing 3 4 The Groups appetite for very long-term, large, 7 The work for which Kier tenders is often complex competitively tendered construction contracts is and long-term with significant associated risks.
limited, influenced by the desire to maintain Tender assumptions may be inaccurate or the quality of workload and manage risk.
Tenders for risks associated with the tender may not be fully contracts are subject to approval by the CEO COO understood.
If risks are under-priced, contract CFO or divisional directors, depending upon the losses and potential reputational damage will value and nature of the contract.
If risks are over-priced, order books defined specific risks are reviewed by the Risk will suffer.
Contract delivery 3 4 Contracts in progress are controlled and managed 2 The Group carries out several hundred contracts through the Groups operating structure and annually and the risks to which the Group is procedures, including rigorous and regular review of exposed are dependent on the nature of the the forecast revenue and costs to complete.
work, the duration and the legal form of the contract.
If these risks are not managed effectively the Group will suffer contract losses, delays and potential reputational damage.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 32 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic objectives Movement 4 Provide sector leading customer 1 Operate a safe and experience Minor Increased net risk sustainable business Moderate Unchanged net risk Attract and retain highly motivated, 5 high performing teams Major Reduced net risk 2 Accelerate growth to be a top three Critical player in all our markets 6 Ensure we have investment in technology and back-office systems 3 Achieve top quartile performance and efficiency Risk Strategy Mitigation Ranking Change Main causes impact post from 2013 of movement mitigation Reputation In order to protect and enhance its reputation, 6 2 4 The Groups ability to tender for new business and the Group has a robust series of business ethics, its relationship with its range of customers, supply sustainability and compliance policies that help chain partners, its employees and other deliver the Groups corporate responsibility stakeholders depends in large part on the good programme, which addresses issues such as health reputation that it has established and how it is and safety, environmental impact, climate change, perceived by others.
The Groups growth targets will employees, customers and supply chain and not be achieved if this risk is not managed.
People 5 The Group monitors staff turnover closely and 1 Resource 2 The Group is dependent on members of its senior pay and conditions are reviewed regularly against shortages as management team and on a flexible, highly skilled the prevailing market and benchmarked to market recover and well-motivated workforce.
As core markets ensure that we remain competitive.
emerge from recession, employee turnover has Succession planning and staff development are increased.
If the Group does not succeed in managed at all levels in the Group.
The Group has attracting, developing and retaining skilled people it a performance review process which is designed will not be able to grow the business as anticipated.
to assist in the career development of its staff and also to identify potential successors to roles within the Group including at senior management level.
Systems Group IT centrally manages the majority of 3 Stretched 3 6 The efficient operation of the Group is increasingly systems across the Group.
Other IT systems are front-office dependent on the proper operation, performance managed locally by experienced IT personnel.
systems in and development of its IT systems.
The Group is Services following Significant investments in IT systems are subject maintaining legacy systems prior to implementing May Gurney to Board review and approval.
In addition, the an ERP system.
If implementation is unsuccessful, acquisition Group has an Information Security Committee.
this will impact the Groups efficiency and profitability.
Compliance The Group monitors and responds to legal and 9 1 4 The Group is subject to a number of complex, regulatory developments in the areas in which it demanding and evolving legal and regulatory operates.
It is the Groups policy to require that all requirements.
A breach of laws or regulations could of its subsidiaries, employees, suppliers and lead to legal proceedings, investigations or disputes subcontractors comply with applicable laws and resulting in a disruption of business, ranging from regulations.
Training is provided on relevant areas of additional costs incurred on a project to civil and or law and regulation, including e-learning courses, to criminal penalties as well as reputational damage.
keep all parties fully aware of their responsibilities.
Contracts entered into by the Group are subjected to a review process to ensure that contractual risks are identified and, wherever possible, mitigated appropriately.
Safety Detailed policies and procedures exist to minimise 5 1 2 The Groups activities are inherently complex and such risks and are subject to review and monitoring potentially hazardous, and require the continuous by the operating businesses and Group.
All operating monitoring and management of health, safety and businesses have a director who is responsible for environmental risks.
co-ordinating health and safety activities.
Failure to manage these risks could result in injury to employees, subcontractors or members of the public or damage to the environment.
This could also expose the Group to significant potential liability and reputational damage.
Change Risks associated with the current change 10 n a Not deemed a 3 6 In the last 12 months, the Group has acquired May programmes have been identified by the Board and principal risk in Gurney and restructured its management, and now the Risk Management and Audit Committee 2013 plans to implement an ERP system.
The volume as requiring particular focus.
A steering group, and pace of change risks diverting management led by the chief operating officer and reporting attention away from core operations, causing regularly to the Board, has been established to a loss of focus on key market opportunities.
address them and ensure that appropriate controls are in place to mitigate them.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33
