Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk Management and Audit Committee report Richard Bailey Committee Chair Dear shareholders, Principal activities in 2014 The Risk Management and Audit Committee the The following matters were considered during the Committee supports the Board in maintaining sound Committee meetings which took place during the year: risk management and internal control procedures.
The Committees responsibility is to ensure that appropriate Sept Dec Feb June corporate reporting, risk management and internal control Financial reporting systems are applied throughout the Group.
Full-year results and The Committee follows a defined programme of work and announcements X review to coincide with key events in the reporting year.
Half-year results and The Committee reports formally and regularly to the Board announcements X on its work.
Going concern X X During the year, the Committee continued to: examine closely Tax report X X the integrity of the Groups financial statements to ensure that they were prepared to the highest standards, provide the Board with periodic reviews of the effectiveness of the External audit Groups risk management and internal control systems, General update X X X scrutinise the work of the internal auditor, having previously Management approved the programme of audit work, and supervise the representation resolution of key issues arising from this work.
letter X Composition Evaluation of The members of the Committee are: external audit X Recommendation Richard Bailey chair of re-appointment X Kirsty Bashforth Amanda Mellor Non-audit fees X X Nick Winser External audit plan X X Richard Bailey, a chartered accountant and chairman of Rothschilds regional business, is considered by the Board Internal audit to have recent and relevant financial experience.
General update X X X X The finance director and the director responsible for internal Evaluation of audit also attend meetings.
The chair of the Board is internal audit X invited to attend the Committee meetings.
The Internal audit plan X  LLP PwC internal audit representative and the executive directors also attend when it is considered necessary or relevant for them to do so.
Other The external audit partner from KPMG attended all of the Risk management meetings during the year and often met the chair of the including Committee without management being present.
whistle-blowing X X Compliance The secretary of the Committee is the company secretary.
with corporate The Committee met formally four times in 2014. governance Role requirements The role of the Committee includes: including fair, balanced, Examining the integrity of the Groups financial understandable statements and challenging significant financial requirement X X X reporting judgements and decisions: Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems: Reviewing the adequacy of the Groups arrangements for its employees and contractors to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible misdemeanours i. e. whistle-blowing: Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 Risk Management and Audit Committee report continued Reviewing the Groups procedures for detecting fraud: appropriate to ask four other firms to tender for the work.
Appraising the effectiveness of the Groups internal Having conducted a comprehensive tender process, the audit function, setting the topics to be covered each Board agreed that, at the November annual general year and reviewing the results of the work: and meeting, it would propose the appointment of PwC as Testing the independence and objectivity of the the external auditor for the 2015 financial year.
Upon external auditor in accordance with the requirements appointment, PwC will cease to provide internal audit of the Code.
Fees relating to the provision of non-audit services by the Risk management and internal controls external auditor, other than routine taxation advice, must The nature of the Groups work and the business be referred to and agreed by the Committee, so that it environment in which it operates are inherently risky.
can be satisfied that the external auditors objectivity and However, the Committee recognises that the success of the independence have not been compromised, notwithstanding Groups business strategy is closely related to its ability to the provision of non-audit services in the year.
identify and manage risk effectively.
Risk is managed at all levels throughout the Group by identifying key risks and The fees paid to KPMG during the year in respect of assessing the effectiveness of controls to mitigate them.
non-audit services were 855,000 2013: 1,177,000, of which 678,000 related to advice in connection with The Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups business-efficiency programme, 112,000 to the Groups internal controls and risk management tax advice and providing tax-related software licences, procedures.
These serve to mitigate, not eliminate, risk.
45,000 to the auditing of the corporate responsibility This year, management conducted a comprehensive annual report, and 20,000 to assistance with respect review of risk throughout the Group to identify, so far as to the audit tender process.
The audit fees for the year practicable, all significant risks.
Based on that work, a new were 843,000.
The total fees for non-audit services risk register has been developed, which will inform future represented approximately 101% of the audit fees paid control procedures.
No major risks were identified that for the year 2013: 162%.
were not already covered by the Groups control framework.
Further, no material risk management or Before engaging KPMG in relation to the Groups businessinternal control failures have been identified in the efficiency programme, the Board asked three firms of an application of the existing procedures that require appropriate size with recent and relevant experience to disclosure in this report.
In light of the size and complexity of the Groups business and operations, and KPMGs recent The Committee also reviewed the adequacy and security and relevant experience having conducted similar of the Groups whistle-blowing arrangements, which exercises elsewhere in the construction sector, the Board exist to enable employees and contractors to raise decided that KPMG was the best equipped to conduct the confidentially any concerns over possible misdemeanour.
Before the work began, and at the Boards The Committee considers the current arrangements to request, KPMG established an appropriate ethical division be appropriate, but will review them annually.
between its audit team and the consultancy team which For further information, please see the information in the undertook the work.
paragraphs entitled How the Group manages risk and As part of the audit process for the year ended 30 June assurance and Risk management process.
2014, KPMG confirmed that, with respect to this period, Internal audit it was independent within the meaning of applicable The Committee tests and reviews continually the regulatory and professional requirements.
Taking this into effectiveness of the internal audit function, recognising account, and having considered the steps taken by KPMG its importance to the management of risk as well as to preserve its independence, the Committee concluded organisational efficiency.
It does so by examining the that the external auditors independence was not audit work conducted by PwC, reviewing the response compromised, notwithstanding the level of non-audit fees.
of management to issues which are identified and Financial statements overseeing the implementation of any changes The Committee is responsible for reviewing the suitability of deemed necessary.
the Groups accounting policies and the appropriateness of The Committee considers that the internal audit function managements estimates and judgements in preparing the fulfilled its objectives for the year.
Its findings were used financial statements.
As part of its review of the Groups by the Committee and PwC in forming the internal audit financial statements, the Committee considered the areas plan for the 2015 financial year.
set out below under Significant accounting judgements.
In reaching its decision on these judgements, the External audit Committee considered the accuracy of historical forecasts The Board and the Committee consider the objectivity and and external audit reports on the positions taken by effectiveness of the Groups auditor to be of paramount management and discussed these reports with the external importance.
At the beginning of the year, the Committee auditor and management.
On the basis of these reviewed and challenged the external audit plan to ensure discussions, and drawing on its own recent and relevant that KPMG, having identified potential areas of concern, financial experience, the Committee concluded that significant risks and control procedures, would employ managements judgement had been reasonable.
effective audit procedures to examine them.
Having reviewed KPMGs performance following the implementation of these Significant accounting judgements procedures, the Committee concluded that the external During the year, the Committee reviewed the following auditor had operated effectively.
significant issues: The independence of the Groups external auditor is key.
The distinction between underlying and non-underlying KPMG has audited the Groups financial statements for over items and their presentation, including costs relating 10 years and the Committee therefore deemed it to the acquisition of May Gurney and business Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 64 Strategic report Governance Financial statements restructuring and transformation costs following this Holding regular meetings of this committee to discuss acquisition.
See note 4 to the consolidated financial and agree significant disclosure items: statements: Each of the committee members retaining copies of The assumptions and judgements made by supporting materials and confirming that, in their management in relation to the accounting for significant opinion, the sections drafted by them were fair, contracts, such as the Castlepoint shopping centre balanced and understandable: car park: Arranging for KPMG and Futurevalue a corporate The extent to which the preparation of the financial reporting consultancy to review the annual report in statements comply with Group revenue and profit light of the requirement and for Kepler Associates, the recognition policies and, in particular, the measurement Companys remuneration consultants, to review the of profits derived from long-term contracts at their various directors remuneration report: stages of completion, as well as the level of liabilities in Circulating drafts of the annual report to the Committee respect of completed contracts.
See note 1 a to the and the Board to ensure that the document reflected consolidated financial statements under Accounting the directors views of the material issues facing the estimates and judgements: Group: and The assumptions underlying the calculation of defined Discussing material disclosure items at a meeting of benefit pension liabilities.
See note 8 to the the Committee.
consolidated financial statements: How the Group manages risk and assurance The work undertaken by management to support the The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of risk going concern statement, taking into account funding management and internal control.
It is also responsible for available to the Group 315m and US$28m committed the Group risk management and assurance standard borrowing facilities and the Groups compliance with the which sets out the mechanisms of control and the financial covenants contained in its principal facility reporting structure.
Key risks are regularly examined and agreements: the action plans to mitigate the risks reviewed.
The assumptions and judgements underlying the valuation of property land and work in progress.
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility See note 1 b to the consolidated financial statements for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of under Accounting estimates and judgements: internal control, including those established to identify, The fair value valuation of intangible assets, provisions assess, manage and monitor risk and to provide assurance.
and liabilities in respect of the May Gurney acquisition.
The risks and the controls designed to mitigate them are See note 1 c under Accounting estimates and continuously monitored and a report of the key risks and an judgements and note 30 b to the consolidated financial assessment of these controls is reviewed by the Committee statements: and twice a year.
The last report was prepared in March 2014 The recoverability of goodwill in respect of the May and reviewed at the June 2014 Committee meeting.
See note 1 g under Accounting Key actions which the Group has taken to mitigate estimates and judgements and note 12 to the risk include: consolidated financial statements.
The establishment of the Risk Review Committee which Fair, balanced and understandable reviews risks arising during tenders for new contracts: The Board sought advice from the Committee that the The establishment of the Investment Committee to information presented in this annual report, when taken review risks relating to investment decisions taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and by the Group: contains the information necessary for shareholders Issuing the Groups standing orders which set out to assess the Groups performance, business model delegated authorities within which the Group operates.
These are supplemented by standing orders which The steps taken by the Committee, or on its behalf, apply at divisional and business unit levels: and to provide this advice to the Board included: Setting up a number of Group-wide committees to ensure that key risks are managed appropriately.
Setting up a committee of senior individuals within the These include the Groups Safety, Health and Group to draft the annual report, with each of these Environment Committee and committees which focus individuals having responsibility for the production of on the management of IT risks relating to the Group.
certain sections of the document: Roles and responsibilities A summary of the roles and responsibilities of the Board, its committees and management with respect to risk management is set out below: Board Committee etc.
Responsibilities Activities Responsible for the Groups system of risk Issues and reviews the Group risk Board management and internal control management and assurance standards Determines the Groups appetite for risk in Reviews the Groups key risks and how they achieving its strategic objectives are mitigated Regularly reviews the effectiveness of Receives regular reports on internal and Risk Management Group internal controls, including systems external audit and other assurance activity and Audit to identify, assess, manage and monitor Annually assesses the effectiveness of risk Committee risks management and internal controls Reviews risks identified during tenders Reviews proposals to mitigate risks which Risk Review have been identified Committee Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 Risk Management and Audit Committee report continued Board Committee etc.
Responsibilities Activities Reviews and approves investment decisions Reviews and approves investment Investment with the aim of optimising the allocation of divestment proposals Committee available capital Strategic leadership Strategic and annual planning process Executive Responsible for ensuring the Groups risk Reviews risk management processes and management management policy is implemented and assurance activity team embedded Monthly quarterly finance and performance Ensures appropriate actions are taken to reviews manage key risks Responsible for risk management and Reviews the divisions key risks and Divisional internal controls within their division mitigations management Ensures that business units responsibilities Reviews results of assurance activity are discharged Escalates key risks to the executive management team and the Board Maintains an effective system of risk Maintains and regularly reviews project and Business unit management and internal control within business risk registers, including the management their business unit and projects effectiveness of mitigations The Group has clear policies and procedures for example, those contained in the Group Finance Manual to ensure conformity, reliability and accuracy in financial reporting, including the process for preparing consolidated accounts.
Risk management process The Groups risk management and assurance process identifies and addresses the key risks in the business, including those identified as potentially affecting the delivery of the Groups strategy.
Significant risks are reviewed annually by the Board and the executive management team to identify any new risks which have arisen as a result of changes within the Group or the markets within which it operates.
On a quarterly basis, the senior management team of each operating business reviews its risk registers and analyses the likelihood of each risk occurring and its potential impact on the business to estimate the gross risk.
After developing and assessing processes designed to mitigate the gross risk, the business assesses the likelihood and impact of each risk to estimate the net risk.
Where the net risk is deemed to be too large or existing mitigations are recognised as inadequate, remedial action plans are agreed and implemented.
These risk registers are consolidated quarterly to provide a view of the principal risks affecting the Group.
The key assurance activities carried out across the Group for example, internal audit review are determined after the risk consolidation process has been completed.
The Committee oversees the risk management process, from identification through to assurance, and reviews it every six months.
The process is also reviewed by the executive management team every three months.
A summary of the Groups risk management process is set out below: Key risks Key mitigations Assurance Gross Net Key risks Group activity Risk Risk strategy How do we Key What are our know our mitigations goals?
Key risks What risks can How do we prevent us mitigate achieving those risks?
The Committee concluded that the Group maintained sound risk management and internal control systems throughout the year ended 30 June 2014.
The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed on the Companys website: http: www.
Richard Bailey Chair of the Risk Management and Audit Committee Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 66
