Strategic Report Risks Given the scale of our businesses, the Board of directors recognises that the nature, scope and potential impact of our key business and strategic risks are subject to constant change.
As such, the Board has implemented the necessary framework to ensure that it has sufficient visibility of the Groups key risks and the opportunity to regularly review the adequacy and effectiveness of our mitigating controls and strategies.
During the year the Board has also considered the nature and level of risk that we are prepared to accept in order to deliver our business strategies and has reviewed and approved our internal statement of risk appetite.
This describes both the current and desired levels of acceptable risk, supported by high level qualitative risk statements, ensuring that risks are proactively managed to the level desired by the Board.
The Corporate governance report on page 45 describes the systems and processes through which the directors manage and mitigate risks.
The Board considers that the principal risks to achieving its strategic aims are set out below.
Easier Strategic aim Group risks Mitigation Across our markets we are committed to ensuring that our stores and online Making it easier Our Easier initiatives fail to Strategic Report fulfilment channels are aligned with our desire to optimise our customers retail for our customers deliver demand and value experience.
To support this we continue to evolve and innovate across our to improve due to a lack of rigorous Creating the leader product ranges, formats and customer offer.
their home change management disciplines, capabilities However, changes are only implemented once we have completed an appropriate and resources.
level of planning and testing, relative to the risk.
In addition, we ensure for any such changes that the assumptions and insight that support the introduction of new products or services will deliver the benefits to both our customers and our shareholders.
We continue to invest in new systems and technologies to support the Giving our Our investment in systems business including: customers more and supply chain ways to shop platforms fails to deliver Warehouse management, forecasting and replenishment technologies to the anticipated benefits.
ensure we maximise operational agility and optimise the flow of product in order to meet customer demand: Optimising distribution and logistics platforms to ensure we can deliver products via the most efficient routes to market: The delivery of leading edge web architectures and platforms to provide a compelling online offer, including the options to deliver enhanced click, pay and collect functionality, across smartphone and tablet-based applications: and We are investing in our financial and operational systems to develop a Groupwide IT solution across our Operating Companies.
All investments are evaluated and monitored via the project management methodologies in place across the Operating Companies.
Post investment reviews are performed on all investments over 0.75 million after 12 months to assess the benefits achieved see the Financial Review on page 25 for more information.
Across our businesses we recognise both the threats and opportunities presented As customers change by omnichannel retailing and are taking the necessary steps to ensure we remain the way they shop we fail to competitive in our respective markets.
adapt our business model to these changes.
We continue to invest in omnichannel technologies and take learnings from our Our key steps What we did in 2013 14 Key Performance Key future priorities businesses which have well developed models e. g. Screwfix.
Going forward from 2014 15, we are Emphasised our affordability credentials: Indicators KPIs Within B&Q we are developing a platform which will be rolled out to the rest of the 1.
Making it easier for replacing the longer list of detailed Launched handy prices marketing campaign in B&Q Group to offer alternative channels for customers.
milestones in favour of a summarised Invested in pricing in Castorama France and Poland customers to improve version that better highlights the key Our investment in the IT strategy project should provide systems and capabilities Rolled out Brico Dpt back to basics marketing campaign to respond to the changing ways in wider whichGroup custom pri ers orities shop wi.
thin the their home Creating the Leader framework.
Extended Brico Dpt France and Spain programme We are developing plans for each Operating Company to address how the business of arrivages one-off special buys to Turkey and Poland model needs to be adapted to cope Our with ke chang y prie os rity in in con 2014 15 is sumer behaviou to: r in each Launched UK Enterprise Finance Guarantee scheme of our markets.
Extend omnichannel capabilities for tradesmen across the Group 2.
Giving our customers Extended our omnichannel offer: more ways to shop Upgraded B&Q online offer www.
com, including 20,000 extra products for home delivery using Screwfix omnichannel infrastructure Annual Report and Account 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Preparatory work to extend TradePoint B&Qs trade-only 28 28 offer website to main shop floor categories e. g. kitchens continues Launched upgraded websites in Turkey, China, Brico Dpt France and Spain.
Work to upgrade Polands website continues Trialled click & collect in Castorama France and in Turkey Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 www.
com 10 11 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Common Strategic aim Group risks Mitigation The development of common brands and synergies remains a priority across the Building We fail to unlock the Strategic Report organisation.
We aim to offer customers a product range which is differentiated innovative potential to generate from that of our competitors through innovation and exclusivity.
To increase and common brands further shareholder value Creating the leader maximise scale efficiencies we: through the optimisation of combined purchasing Are carrying out customer insight research to ensure that we understand and commercial customer buying behaviours, habits and our product insight across all of our synergies, while retaining businesses.
In addition, we are ensuring that we are able to identify specific accountability at our opportunities to drive the optimal, and most profitable, outcomes from our Operating Companies.
common buying decisions: Are implementing common range reviews across our larger Operating Companies.
Performance of the ranges and brands is tracked and strategies updated accordingly: Have four sourcing offices focused on selected ranges: and Are working with our vendors to ensure we achieve the best value for our customers.
We view innovation as an area of future growth.
We have an innovation team We fail to create enough that is working with our suppliers to ensure that we develop and deliver innovative innovation opportunities products to our customers.
We recognise that this is an area where we need to do to sufficiently differentiate further work to maximise the opportunities and we are working with our Operating our product offer.
Companies to put plans in place.
Expand Strategic aim Group risks Mitigation Despite the ongoing challenges of global austerity programmes and their impact Growing our Our investments in new Strategic Report on consumer confidence, we are committed to re-investing in our mature markets presence in store formats, customer to maintain market share and to ensure market leadership.
existing markets markets and customer Creating the leader proposition strategies fail We continue to invest in our existing store portfolio while seeking to minimise its to stimulate increased cost base and optimise sales densities.
Where there are opportunities to expand consumer spend and do and innovate we will do so using a combination of existing and new formats.
We Our key steps What we did in 2013 14 not deliver the desired will pursue low risk market entry and new flexible store format strategies based like-for-like sales growth Product: on the utilisation of current Operating Company skills and resources.
o uB r mu atui rel d mairn ketsg.
innovative Launched energy-efficient iQE Group brand learnings from trials and ensure these are adopted across the Group in future projects.
We continue to invest in our omnichannel strategy.
Extended common paint ranges common brands With continuing market volatility and uncertainty across all of the economies in Rolled out Colours Group own-brand paint into Russia and Spain Uncertainty surrounding which we operate, particularly within the eurozone, we continue to monitor the resilience of the global Commenced roll out of new Colours own-brand emulsion paint potential exposures and risks and provide effective risk management solutions economy and volatility in range across B&Q UK & Ireland in 120 stores and Castorama 4.
Driving efficiency to both our businesses and our strategic suppliers.
These include: the eurozone continues France all 105 stores completed to impact both consumer The provision of supply chain finance programmes to support strategic suppliers: Launched exclusive Valspar mixing desk paint into B&Q UK and effectiveness confidence and the & Ireland now in 120 stores and China Support from a strong portfolio of international banking partners that provide long-term sustainability everywhere flexibility, access to funding and reliable local retail cash and card payment and capabilities of our Launch of Site workwear into Brico Dpt France now planned during processing services: supplier base.
2014 15 following arrivages one-off special buys trial during 2013 14 Diversification of cash hold in Held gs across inaugural a number European of fin produ ancialc in t s sh tio tuti w, o a ns ttewi nd th ed the by 6,000 store and strongest short-term credit rating: and buying colleagues from the UK and France Achieved 9% common up from 8% in 2012 13 and 20% direct An appropriate and prudent mix of hedging policies, cash deposits and debt sourcing up from 19% in 2012 13 reflecting a re-emphasis of quality financing to minimise the impact of foreign exchange currency volatility on over quantity the Group.
Extended French common supplier contracts to the wider Castorama We have also assessed a number of alternative scenarios in relation to the volatility and Brico Dpt brands division and uncertainty within the eurozone.
Efficiency: Upweighted distribution centre and cross-docking capability in Poland, Spain and Turkey 1 SG&A optimisation from media buying programmes across the Our key steps What we did in 2013 14 UK and France.
Achieved c. 40m total savings from Group SG&A www.
com initiatives since the start of Creating the Leader Existing markets: 29 29 5.
Growing our presence Extended Opened Brico Dpt 84 ne sh t el new f-read stor yes pack ahea aging d o ffro origin m 20% al ta rg toet 32% of 68 stores including UK 62 principally Screwfix outlets, France 7, Rolled out France and Spain all-staff bonus programmes to Poland in existing markets Poland 2, Russia 1, Spain 4, Turkey 8 including a trial of 4 linked to individual store sales and profit growth Kotas Fix outlets, representing 3% space growth Undertook IT process mapping analysis at Castorama France in Revamped and extended four Castorama France stores readiness for Group-wide IT programme 6.
Expanding in new and B&Q UK store rightsizing update 1 Selling, general & administrative expenses.
First freehold store deal completed with a grocer last year developing markets Store reduced in size by 50%: sales density improvement of 75% Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Non-operational space sold to grocer in February 12 2014 at a good return for 32 million An additional store has received planning permission and seeking planning permission for another 16 New and developing markets: Bought 15 stores in Romania, which contributed an additional 2% space growth.
In total, Group space growth was 5% Evaluated Screwfix international opportunities announcing a four-store pilot in Germany in summer 2014 and the launch of a country-wide website with next-day delivery Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 14 Strategic Report Risks continued Expand continued Strategic aim Group risks Mitigation We continually review and assess opportunities for expansion, in terms of both Expanding in new Our investments in Strategic Report online and bricks and mortar retail, across all of the territories and regions in and developing overseas expansion fail which we operate.
markets to deliver sufficient sales Creating the leader and profits.
Country and market entry strategies are based on the application of a proven operating model and supported by the Operating Company with the most relevant experience, capabilities and capacity to successfully lead a market entry strategy.
We also ensure that any proposed acquisition or market entry strategy is subject to an appropriate level of challenge and due diligence from both the Group Executive and specialist Group functions which may include the Tax, Treasury, Legal, Group Finance and Group Risk and Internal Audit functions.
This due diligence is also supported by external and independent advisers when necessary.
Following an acquisition, integration plans are prepared and monitored at divisional and Group levels.
Existing management teams are supplemented with Group resources to monitor and assist with the integration.
We monitor the political and economic risks of operating in new and developing markets.
One Team Strategic aim Group risks Mitigation Across our businesses we are developing our talent, building our leadership Developing We do not make the Strategic Report capability and connecting our people through intelligent networks.
Specific leaders and necessary investment in examples of this include: connecting our people to ensure that Creating the leader people we have the appropriate The continued investment in the development of our senior leaders through the calibre of staff, skills Kingfisher One Academy, including the 2020 Leadership Programme and the and experience.
development of networks across our businesses: Focused development activities for our store-based colleagues, including the roll out of national apprenticeship schemes across our UK and French businesses, and an increased focus on how we support and recognise the role of our customer advisers across the organisation: and Our key steps What we did in 2013 14 Recognition of the importance of ensuring a constant flow of developing talent Existing markets: through structured graduate and management trainee programmes, providing 5.
Growing our presence Opened 84 net new stores ahead of original target of 68 sustainable career development paths supported by new and innovative reward stores including UK 62 principally Screwfix outlets, France 7, and bonus frameworks see www.
in existing markets Poland 2, Russia 1, Spain 4, Turkey 8 including a trial of 4 Kotas Fix outlets, representing 3% space growth Our commitment to sustainability remains one of Kingfishers key values and Sustainability: We fail to deliver our across the organisation we continue to ensure that we engage and take advice Becoming sustainability targets Revamped and extended four Castorama France stores from our expert partners WWF, BioRegional and Forum for the Future : Net Positive due to not integrating our 6.
Expanding in new and B&Q UK store rightsizing update sustainability plan into the As part of our business planning process we set and annually review First freehold store deal completed with a grocer last year day to day operations of developing markets sustainability plans for each Operating Company: the business.
Store reduced in size by 50%: sales density Monthly Board reports monitor the progress of our largest Operating Companies improvement of 75% in achieving their sustainability targets: Non-operational space sold to grocer in February Data is reported annually to the Group and signed off by the local Boards: 2014 at a good return for 32 million An additional store has received planning permission Within each Operating Company responsibility has been assigned to a team or individual for the delivery of the sustainaand bilitys te aeking rgets.
planning Meetingsperm of the is C sion orpfo orr at ae nother 16 Social Responsibility teams are held twice a year to exchange best practice and New and developing markets: progress common projects: Bought 15 stores in Romania, which contributed an additional Our Net Positive Advisory Council provides an external review of our processes 2% space growth.
In total, Group space growth was 5% as well as technical support and advice see page 19.
Evaluated Screwfix international opportunities announcing Our key steps W a h fouratstore we p ilot di in dGerman in 2y 0 in 1 summer 3 142014 and the launch of a country-wide website with next-day delivery People: 7.
Developing leaders Continued to extend the Kingfisher One Academy Annual Report and Account 2013 14 Net Positive: and connecting people Annual Rep ort and Accounts 2013 14 Published first Net Positive report and appointed Richard 30 Gillies from Marks and Spencer Group plc as Group 3 0 Sustainability Director, to lead the Net Positive agenda 8.
com netpositive Over 1,400 Kingfisher employees shared an estimated becoming Net Positive gain of 10 million following the maturity of the ShareSave scheme in December 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 16 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Operational Risks Strategic aim Risk Mitigation Significant investment in pricing to reinforce and communicate our value Pricing A lack of perceived Strategic Report credentials.
This is supported by: price competitiveness, particularly when The use of improved customer insight and analytical tools to optimise product compared to more ranging and pricing strategies: discount based or online Increased margin flexibility through partnerships with strategic vendors and competitors, would affect the leveraging of Group buying opportunities: and our ability to maintain or grow market share.
More targeted use of online and mass media tools to communicate and reinforce price perception for example, price comparison websites, such as www.
We continue to support our strategic suppliers through a combination of Key supplier Key product suppliers lack relationship management, and ongoing supplier vulnerability assessments, resilience the necessary resilience supported by supplier financing programmes where appropriate.
and continuity or disaster recovery capabilities to manage the We also seek to ensure continuity of supply through the expansion of our own impact of ongoing global brand programmes and dual sourcing strategies where possible and commercially economic volatility or the viable.
Ongoing investment in our sourcing offices outside of Asia, notably in increasing impacts of Poland and Turkey, also provides increased flexibility for our sourcing strategies.
extreme weather cycles and patterns on their operations and extended supply chains.
With 79,000 employees and millions of customers visiting our stores each week, Health & safety We fail to maintain a robust health and safety systems are a priority.
The Board is committed to creating safe environment for and sustaining a safe environment for both our staff and customers and regularly our customers and store reviews and challenges health and safety performance, standards and targets colleagues, which results across our businesses.
in a major incident or fatality that is directly As regulatory requirements vary from country to country, each Operating Company attributable to a failure is required to designate a director with specific responsibility for health and safety.
in our health and safety This person is then responsible for ensuring that a written health and safety policy management systems.
is communicated and that appropriate health and safety arrangements are in place to protect our employees and customers and that we comply with local regulatory requirements.
Our markets Our strategy The Group Health and Safety Committee sets the policy and standards for the Group.
We currently operate in nine Our unique contribution as a Compliance is monitored across our businesses through a programme of selfcountries, spanning nearly 600 business to our customers is certification and health and safety audits, with issues reported through local Audit Committees and escalated to the Group Executive, Group Audit Committee or million households.
that we can harness our home Board where necessary see the Governance report on page 36.
Our research shows that spending on home improvement improvement experience, our Both employees and suppliers working for or with Kingfisher must conduct Environmental or Kingfishers reputation is a key priority for householders, making this an attractive themselves according to our minimum standards of ethics and behaviours as heritage as a leader in sustainability ethical failure and brand are affected sector for retailers.
It is also attractive because of the relatively defined by our Code of Conduct.
Responsibility for compliance with our Code by a major environmental small number of well-known manufacturer brands.
This means and our international scale and of Conduct rests with each Group Operating Company Chief Executive and or ethical failure, a a specialist home improvement retailer provides a vital role for appropriate resources are available to our businesses to ensure that both staff significant corporate the consumer by offering a wide product choice and expert sourcing capability to bring new, and suppliers are aware of, and comply with, the Code and that our businesses fraud or material nonadvice.
We can offer a high proportion of own brand product, can manage the legislative or regulatomor ry challeng e su es pstain resenteda by btheir le and more compliance with legislative achieve economies of scale and have a more defensible position respective jurisdictions see www.
or regulatory requirements against online or generalist operators when compared with affordable products to market.
resulting in punitive or other retail segments.
Read more about our business model custodial procedures.
This means our customers can have better homes, the planets resources can be protected and we generate value for our people, communities and shareholders.
By also providing our customers with project advice and new shopping channels to complement our stores, we will make it easier for them to adapt their homes to their evolving needs.
Our shorthand for describing this purpose is Better Homes, Better Lives.
The next phase of our development towards this vision www.
com Creating the Leader builds on the success of the previous phase known as Delivering Value, which has repositioned 31 www.
com Kingfisher as a stronger business in the attractive home improvement market.
