Lonmin Plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Principal Risks and Uncertainties LONMINS TOP 11 STRATEGIC RISKS ARE DESCRIBED ON THE FOLLOWING PAGES TOGETHER WITH THEIR POTENTIAL IMPACT, MITIGATING STRATEGIES AND THE PERCEIVED CHANGE IN THESE RISKS SINCE THE PREVIOUS FINANCIAL YEAR.
Loss of Critical Skills of funds to meet business needs 2.
Access to secure energy and water 7.
Mining Charter obligations, other regulatory 3.
Failure to deliver required operational 11.
Lack of geographical diversification requirements and social licence to operate performance 8.
Changes to the political, legal, social and 4.
Community relations economic environment including resource 5.
Metal prices and currency volatility nationalism Risk Impact 1.
Safety A failure in safety routines could result in injury or loss of life, which would have tragic implications for employees, their At Lonmin we value our people.
We try to position ourselves as an families and the local communities.
It would also severely disrupt employer of choice, and provide a safe working environment for our operations and could result in safety stoppages.
These may employees, our contractors and the communities we operate in.
be instigated by management, or the DMR could temporarily However, the mining industry has inherent risks that can cause suspend part or all of the operations under the Mine Health and fatalities or injuries.
These include falls-of-ground, tramming, working Safety Act commonly referred to as a Section 54 stoppage.
at heights, scraping and rigging incidents, exposure to gases, fire, molten metal, electrocution and many other hazards.
Employee and union relations The three largest South African PGM producers, including the Company, experienced significant industrial action during the year A volatile industrial relations environment characterised by poor due to a breakdown in wage negotiations with the majority union, communication, mistrust and industrial action, including strikes, AMCU.
The five month long strike at our Marikana operations exacerbated by poor macroeconomic and socioeconomic factors, resulted in the loss of around 391,000 saleable Pt ounces and could result in disruptions to operations and have a material adverse an estimated revenue loss of R8.3b.
Striking employees lost, on effect on the Groups financial position.
average, 45% of their earnings and many suffered deterioration in their health and wellbeing due to poor nutrition and reduced access to health care and medication.
The protracted strike also severely impacted local communities and businesses, suppliers and, more broadly, led to a deterioration in investor confidence in the sector and in the region.
Failure to deliver required operational performance Poor operational delivery can lead to a decline in profitability and cash generation, which would in turn pose threats to our liquidity Failure to deliver against production and cost targets can result from position and impact profitability.
a variety of reasons, including poor operational management, poor productivity, safety stoppages, industrial action and difficult geological conditions.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder information Lonmin Plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Principal Risks and Uncertainties These risks have been ranked on a residual basis according to the magnitude of potential impact, probability and taking into account the effectiveness of existing controls.
The risks represent a snapshot of the Companys current risk profile.
This is not an exhaustive list of all risks the Company faces.
As the macro environment changes and country and industry circumstances evolve, new risks may arise or existing risks may recede or the rankings of these risks may change.
Risk tolerance Risk tolerance is an indication of the amount of risk a company is willing to accept in pursuit of its strategic objectives.
This is reflected in a companys capacity to sustain losses yet continue to meet its obligations under different trading conditions.
Lonmin has a matrix scoring system in place in terms of which risks are rated based on their probability of occurrence and potential severity.
These ratings are then used to drive mitigating actions.
Mitigation Change KPIs Performance metrics There is a clearly defined employee safety Allowing for the impact of the strike, there has been LTIFR engagement strategy, safety protocols and an overall improvement in the safety environment Number of LTIs standards that are set, monitored and as demonstrated by a year-on-year improvement in Number of fatalities managed by various operational committees LTIFR of 4.6%.
The number of Section 54 stoppages Severity rate and ultimately the Exco.
The SHE Committee decreased during the year, as did the number of oversees all safety matters on behalf of the shifts lost as a result of these stoppages.
Certain targets in the Balanced however, we suffered one fatality during the year.
Scorecard are designed to incentivise safe We continue to engage and build relationships with behaviour, as discussed in more detail in the the DMR at various levels of management.
After this years strike, as part of the production ramp up process, the Company invested many hours in safety training and induction before re-commissioning operations in order to minimise the risk of any safety failures, either underground or on surface, as our main focus was on our people.
The strike concluded with a three year wage The industrial relations environment deteriorated Tonnes lost due to agreement negotiated in tandem with the during the course of FY2014.
However, the industrial action other two major PGM producers, which will settlement agreement and the relationship charter be effective until 30 June 2016.
A relationship represent a significant step forward in our relationship charter has also been established with AMCU with AMCU and with our employees.
including, importantly, a commitment from AMCU that there would be no further industrial action in respect of the issues covered by the three year wage agreement.
A process of structured engagement with AMCU with clear governance structures and capacity development initiatives has been established.
The Company intends to extend the charter to its minority unions.
In addition, management has embarked on a programme to re-establish direct communication with our employees, using a variety of communication channels such as open forums legotlas.
A clear and focussed short and medium term The level of risk increased significantly during FY2014 Productivity operational strategy has been developed.
as a result of the five month strike.
Platinum sales The appointment of a Chief Operating Officer Immediately available ore to oversee both mining and processing reserves operations together with the supporting PGM instantaneous functions has improved operational alignment recovery rate across the business.
The cost control programme implemented in FY2013 Cost of production per continues to gain traction and is delivering PGM ounce cost savings across the business.
com Lonmin Plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk Impact 4.
Community relations Deteriorating relationships with the local communities as a result of poor services and high unemployment can result Dysfunctional relationships with local communities hinder in civil unrest which could severely disrupt our operations.
transformation and can lead to operational disruption.
As many of our employees live locally, any disruptions within the communities and poor living conditions can have a direct impact upon our employees.
The failure to deliver social upliftment projects triggering protests or violence and corporate reputational damage can result if communication with these stakeholders is not managed effectively.
The environmental, health and social impacts of mining can be felt by those communities who live and work in close proximity to the operations.
Metal prices and currency volatility Incorrect metal price and exchange rate assumptions used in long-term planning can lead to incorrect planning decisions and Commodity price and currency volatility increase the risks in managing negative financial consequences.
In addition, volatile metal a mining business.
This is especially because mining requires long prices may also affect the decisions made by our customers planning horizons to plan new mines and make decisions regarding and may result in them considering substituting our products the expansion and contraction of existing operations.
These decisions with other alternatives.
This could then negatively affect the often need to be made based on assumptions regarding future metal demand for our products and hence our revenue.
prices which drive revenue and exchange rates in our case primarily the USD ZAR exchange rate as the majority of our cost and capital Underachievement of projected levels of profitability and cash expenditure is incurred in South African Rand.
flows can impact our ability to fund and undertake projects and spending planned in future years.
Our business plans and projections have been based on mildly increasing PGM prices, which may not be realised.
Inadequate Liquidity Levels Unavailability of funds to meet Inadequate liquidity can lead to insufficient funds to facilitate business needs on-going operations, reduced facility headroom or a breach of certain covenants to which our bank facilities are subject.
The availability of funds to meet business needs can affect the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Key factors affecting the Groups liquidity position are weak metal prices, a stronger USD ZAR exchange rate and lower than planned production.
Mining Charter obligations, other regulatory requirements and Lonmins New Order Mining Rights are conditional upon the social licence to operate performance of obligations set out in the social & labour plans agreed with the DMR and which detail the Groups Lonmin is heavily regulated by a vast array of regulatory requirements responsibilities under the Mining Charter.
Failure to meet including the MPRDA.
This legislation is critical as it impacts these obligations can impact Lonmins operating licence Lonmins operating licence.
Various other regulatory requirements and can result in deteriorating relationships with our are also required to be complied with and it is therefore critical that stakeholders, reputational damage, regulatory fines and they are understood and appropriate measures are implemented to other punitive measures.
Alongside these legal and regulatory obligations and, equally critical, are our social responsibility obligations by which In addition, certain of our BEE partners are reliant on funding we earn our social licence to operate in the communities that host provided by the Company and have significant balances our operations.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder information Lonmin Plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Change KPIs Performance metrics A number of initiatives aimed at improving the There has been a significant step forward in our relations Community spend quality of life of our employees, their families with the local communities that surround our operations.
Number of bursaries and their communities are underway.
These An agreement has been reached with the Bapo ba Number of learnerships projects are being driven through a structured Mogale Traditional Community to convert their existing Sustainability and social stakeholder engagement process.
There are entitlement to future royalties and their interest in the agenda also various community projects underway, Pandora JV in to equity participation in Lonmin and a many of which are particularly focused on deferred payment paid over five years as well as the increasing levels of local recruitment.
opportunity for the Bapo to participate in the procurement and business value chain activities.
In addition, two community trusts have been established for the Bapo and the community residing in the western portion of our Marikana operations on land not belonging to the Bapo for the purpose of funding community upliftment projects.
Lonmin gathers market information from a Metal and currency markets continue to remain very Dollar price per PGM number of different sources to better understand volatile.
In particular 2014 has seen lower USD PGM ounce the supply and demand dynamics for our key metal prices but these have been off-set by a weaker Rand Basket price products and the factors that could affect metal South African Rand which has meant that cost and price volatility.
We do this to try and develop more capital expenditure increases as reported in USD Platinum price accurate assumptions in our forecasting.
We also have been contained.
This has helped maintain Dollar Rand exchange enter into longer term volume contracts with key margins.
However, the continued volatility and rate customers to mitigate off-take risk.
uncertainty in commodity price and currency markets continue to make longer term planning and Although historically there has been a degree of investment decisions challenging.
correlation between the USD ZAR exchange rate and the PGM basket price, this does not always hold true and can dislocate.
Such dislocations can be both positive and negative.
Currently it is not our policy to hedge, partially because the cost of hedging metal prices for the products which Lonmin produces are high and the forward markets in these metals are not very liquid.
Update business plans and projections on an ongoing basis, and adjust the same for continuing lowered PGM prices.
The Groups philosophy is to maintain an Exposure to this risk increased as the five month long Free cash flow appropriately low level of financial gearing given strike consumed our net cash.
Net debt the sensitivity of the business to fluctuations in PGM commodity prices and the USD ZAR Amount of available exchange rate.
Mitigation measures include banking facilities cash conservation and prudent management of bank debt facilities.
The Board reviews and approves the financial strategy and the output from annual budgeting, long-term planning and cash flow forecasting are reviewed by the Board and senior management.
Social and community programmes have There has been an overall increase in the level of risk Level of equity participation been implemented.
Progress against our in this area.
Level of HDSA% commitments is closely monitored by the Exco, Whilst the Group has been successful in reaching an representation SET Committee and the Board.
There is a agreement with the local communities to enable them stakeholder engagement programme in place, Number of hostels to achieve equity participation in Lonmin and an including on-going dialogue with the relevant converted ESOP is expected to be implemented for the benefit authorities in South Africa and all other of our employees, there are certain commitments in Level of BEE procurement stakeholders.
The Balanced Scorecard relation to, for example, housing and employment includes specific metrics which have been Level of spend on Human equity, which will not be satisfied to the extent and designed to incentivise delivery against Resources Development within the timescales originally envisaged.
HDSA receivable and During the year, an advance dividend was made to Lonmin holds security over shares of certain of recoverability Incwala and interest was rolled up on the debt owed by its BEE partners or their underlying investment an entity in the Shanduka Group.
Overall, sums owed to Level of community spend in Lonmin Group companies, which could be the Group by its BEE partners increased during the year.
enforced should these counterparties default on their obligations to us.
The Farlam Commission of Inquiry is nearing completion with final arguments due to be presented mid November 2014 and the findings and recommendations are due to be presented to the President in March 2015.
The extent to which these proceedings impact our social licence to operate and other potential impacts on our business will only become clear once the Commissions report is released by the State President.
Lonmin Plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk Impact 8.
Changes to the political, legal, social and economic environment The ongoing debates in respect of resource nationalism have including resource nationalism created policy uncertainty and this has inevitably led to a decline in investor appetite for South African investment risk.
The Company is subject to the risks associated with conducting business This is reflected in decreased offshore investor appetite for both in South Africa including but not limited to changes to the countrys laws South African equity and debt exposure.
If some of the issues and policies in connection with taxation, royalties, divestment, repatriation of under consideration are implemented this could have a material capital and resource nationalism.
The latter is a broad term that describes adverse effect on the Groups future operational performance the situation where a government attempts to assert increased authority, and financial position.
For example, profits could be negatively control and ownership over the natural resources located in its jurisdiction.
impacted by the imposition of additional taxes and revenues Resource nationalism is a global phenomenon, not limited to a single could be impacted by the sale of metals at discounted country.
In South Africa, the threat of nationalisation appears to have differentiated prices.
The obligation to sell locally could impact dissipated to some extent, however, debate continues regarding future long-term supply agreements with our customers and give rise policies relating to South Africas natural resources.
This includes to concerns about security of supply from South Africa, debate regarding the identification of strategic minerals, the extent of potentially expediting the growth of the recycling industry and beneficiation required, the role of the state owned mining company, increasing substitution concerns.
whether there should be increased taxation of the South African mining industry and whether the State should be entitled to a free carried interest in certain petroleum and gas projects.
The above issues have all largely been incorporated within the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act MPRDA Amendment Bill which remains the subject of governmental debate.
In particular, beneficiation is a major consideration with the Bill proposing that the Minister be granted a discretion to declare certain minerals as strategic, that the Minister determine what percentage of strategic minerals are to be made available locally and the differentiated price at which strategic minerals are to be sold, as well as the Minister being able to determine the conditions applicable to export permits.
In addition, the Davis Commission is currently looking at the current tax regime with a view to determining whether additional taxes should be imposed on mining companies or whether mining taxation should be restructured.
Loss of Critical Skills The loss of critical skills could negatively impact safety, production and the ability to deliver against targets.
Failure to Increased global investment in mining over the past few years has meet our HDSA targets could also negatively impact Lonmins driven demand for skilled workers around the world.
In South Africa, mining rights.
In order to retain our skilled labour, we continuously this is compounded by the requirement to increase the proportion of review market related remuneration packages as compared to HDSAs represented in management to 40% by the end of 2014. the incentive and retention schemes offered by Lonmin.
This continuous monitoring of remuneration practices and matching the packages offered by our peers in order to attract and retain employees of a suitable calibre can result in increased costs.
Access to secure energy and water Supply constraints in respect of energy or water could impact upon our ability to operate effectively and meet our production Lonmin faces potential supply constraints in energy and water together targets.
Furthermore, cost increases in respect of these utilities with increased costs in the consumption of these utilities.
This is then compounded by the imminent supply is likely to be especially at risk in the next two years until Eskoms implementation of a carbon tax which would place further new power stations, which are currently behind schedule, come on pressure on our operational costs.
In 2013, the National Energy Regulator of South Africa granted Eskom an 8% average increase per annum over the next five years.
Despite these tariff increases being lower than those in the previous few years, they continue to be higher than inflation.
Water availability is particularly problematic in provinces such as the North West and Limpopo where the infrastructural capacity to store and transfer water is limited and where long periods of drought are common.
Furthermore, water for mining is increasingly competing with other priorities, such as water for communities, agriculture and other industries.
Lack of geographical diversification Excess concentration of our business activities makes the Group vulnerable to disruptive events, which could significantly Lonmins principal operating subsidiaries are concentrated in one impact the Groups operational and financial performance.
location and one sector, which increases the level of risk in the event of operational disruptions or, more broadly, in the event of uncertainty in the macro environment.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder information Lonmin Plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Change KPIs Performance metrics Bilateral and industry level discussions with There has been an improvement in the level of risk.
the DMR and other government agencies are The move away from the concept of nationalisation in ongoing with a view to balancing the need the resource nationalism debate has been positive.
for the country to benefit more from its However, many of the issues as described herein natural resources with the need to attract could be included within the MPRDA Amendment Act and retain mining investment and jobs.
Mining companies and industry bodies have made representations regarding the content of the MPRDA Amendment Bill with a view to highlighting areas of concern and motivating for amendments to the Bill.
This appears to have had a positive impact given Presidential consent of the Bill and industry engagement.
Lonmin and other mining companies are continuing to engage with the South African government and the broader community in order to raise awareness of the risks associated with resource nationalism.
There are processes in place for individual Risk in this area increased due to the increasing Level of HDSA development programmes, succession competition for individuals with critical skills, representation at various planning and retention strategies for scarce including HDSAs.
There is also a particular focus on Number of women in mining bursaries, graduate development, mentorship programmes and an internship programme to Number of women in core assist students who need to complete their mining positions practical work in order to obtain tertiary Age profile of RDOs qualifications.
When recruiting, preference is given to HDSA applicants.
The Leadership Attrition rate Staircase programme has been rolled out in Level of HDSA bursaries mining and processing.
This programme maps the developmental path for those employees that have been identified for fast tracking to management positions.
Lonmin has implemented numerous energy Risk in this area has decreased from 2013.
Despite Energy efficiency saving initiatives.
There are also load shedding the actual energy efficiency performance for 2014 Water efficiency and contractual agreements in place with being skewed due to the five month long strike, Eskom to manage any supply side constraints FY2014 was nonetheless successful in terms of our Freshwater consumption from the grid.
Trial renewable generation and energy efficiency journey with several initiatives additional energy saving projects are currently completed and a significant increase in general under investigation or implementation.
Similarly, awareness evident amongst the management teams with regard to securing water, an Integrated across the operations.
Water Balance project is underway and forms part of the Water Conservation and Demand Management Plan for Marikana.
The aim of this strategic project is to optimise water use efficiency, minimise fresh water consumption and improve our long-term access to water.
Whilst delivering greater shareholder value from There has been no change in this risk exposure.
our Marikana operations remains a key priority, However, the likelihood of the risk materialising we actively consider opportunities in and has increased.
outside of South Africa, both organically, through acquisition or through commercial arrangements with other companies.
Lonmin has an established greenfield growth opportunity at Akanani and we have a modest PGM resource in Canada.
Exploration projects in Canada and Northern Ireland are ongoing.
