Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Changing new Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Risk management We believe that effective risk management is critical to the Risk likelihood and impact grid achievement of our strategic objectives and the long-term Gross risk assessed Net risk assessed Risk identification G N sustainable growth of our business.
before mitigation after mitigation Risks highlighted What is our approach to risk management?
and documented in a centrally managed The Board has overall accountability for ensuring that risk is G G Risk Register effectively managed across the Group and, on behalf of the G Board, the Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the N Risk assessment Group Risk Process.
Each business area is responsible for G G Risks assessed in identifying, assessing and managing the risks in their terms of likelihood respective area.
of occurrence and potential impact on N Risks are identi ed and assessed by all business areas N N the Group half-yearly and are measured against a fide ned set of criteria, considering likelihood of occurrence and potential impact to Risk mitigation the Group.
The Group Risk function facilitates a risk N Required actions are identi cation and assessment exercise with the Executive agreed and assigned, with target deadlines Board members.
This information is combined with a Minor Moderate Major Critical and quarterly status consolidated view of the business area risks.
The top risks updates IMPACT based on likelihood and impact form our Group Risk Pro le, which is reported to the Executive Board for review and challenge, ahead of it being submitted to Group Board for final Our principal risks and uncertainties review and approval.
As with any business, we face risks and uncertainties on a daily basis.
It is the effective management of these that places us in To ensure our risk process drives continuous improvement a better position to be able to achieve our strategic objectives across the business, the Executive Board monitors the ongoing and to embrace opportunities as they arise.
status and progress of key action plans against each risk quarterly.
Risk remains a key consideration in all strategic Overleaf are details of our principal risks and the mitigating decision-making by the Board, incorporating debate on risk activities in place to address them.
It is recognised that the appetite.
Group is exposed to a number of risks, wider than those listed.
However, a conscious effort has been made to disclose those of most concern to the business at this moment in time and Key areas of focus those that have been the subject of debate at recent Board or We continue to drive improvements to our risk management Audit Committee meetings.
process and the quality of risk information generated, whilst at the same time maintaining a simple and practical To achieve a holistic view of the risks facing our business, both approach.
now and in the future, we consider those that are: During the year we have focused on a number of key areas: External to our business: Core to our day-to-day operation: 1.
Evolving risks Related to business change activity: and Our Group Risk Pro le has evolved over the course of the last Those that could emerge in the future.
year, responding to the dynamic environment within which we operate and our strategy to become a truly international, The risk radar below maps our principal risks against these multi-channel retailer.
Three new risks have been introduced categories.
This tool is also used to facilitate wider Executive M&S.
com business resilience, GM margin and Information and Board-level discussions on risk.
Risk appetite Risk appetite is an expression of the types and amount of risk Core externalrisk External Emerging areas we are willing to take or accept to achieve our objectives and aims to support consistent, risk informed decision-making Competition across the Group.
Our vision for risk management is that all signi cant risks to the achievement of our strategic objectives are identi ed, assessed and managed to within acceptable Information levels.
security Risk appetite continues to be a key consideration in strategic decision-making by the Board and we recognise the Programme importance of including the concept in risk discussions workstream management across all levels of the organisation.
It is especially relevant in Food safety and integrity M&S.
com determining the nature and extent of mitigating actions and International GM logistics business and supply their role in addressing risk likelihood or impact.
resilience chain network Our people IT change GM margin Core operations Internal Business change GM customer engagement Stable known LIKELIHOOD Unlikely Possible Likely Almost certain Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 16 Risk management continued Description Mitigating activities Brand and reputation: Our founding principles of Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust continue to in uence how we do business and our reputation for being one of the UKs most trusted brands GM customer engagement Prioritisation of core customer in both GM and Marketing Continued loss of engagement with our customer objectives As we seek to enhance the M&S brand, it is important that Regular review of customer reaction to product and in-store we understand and address our customers needs in and online experience through focus groups and in-house increasingly competitive UK and international markets and Customer Insight Unit presentations that we deliver a consistent M&S customer experience across Ongoing improvements to product style and quality and to all selling channels.
store environment, addressing speci c customer feedback Targeted marketing and promotional activity using customer loyalty data Increased focus on quality and style, including the introduction of a Clothing Quality Charter Updated M&S.
com website to enhance the online customer shopping experience Food safety and integrity Dedicated team responsible for ensuring that all products are A food safety or integrity related incident occurs or is safe for consumption through rigorous controls and processes Continuous focus on quality not effectively managed Proactive horizon scanning including focus on fraud and As a leading retailer of ne quality fresh food, it is of adulteration paramount importance that we manage the safety and Established supplier and depot auditing programme integrity of our products and supply chain, especially in light of the business greater operational complexity and the heightened risk of fraudulent behaviour in the supply chain.
People and change: Our people are fundamental to the long-term success and growth of this business Our people External hires recruited into a number of senior roles bringing an alternative perspective and new skills Our organisational culture and structure limit our Robust employee engagement process for effective ability to adapt to market changes with pace communication To support our transformation to an international, Alignment of development programmes with business strategy multi-channel retailer, it is essential that our organisational Faster decision-making enabled through the removal of set-up allows us to respond to market changes and structural complexity competition with pace.
Programme and workstream management Strategic Programme Of ce centrally governs Group initiatives providing regular status and bene ts realisation updates to the Bene ts from our major business programmes and Executive Board workstreams are not realised Proactive management of programme portfolio and associated We continue to undertake a number of major programmes to bene ts in the context of current market conditions and the underpin the achievement of our plan: the delivery of Groups three-year plan forecasted bene ts is critical to this.
Programme governance structures in place for all major programmes, supported by robust project management discipline Proactive identi cation and management of major crossprogramme interdependencies GM logistics and supply chain network Robust programme governance in place with clear We fail to evolve our supply chain and logistics identi cation of interdependencies with other Group initiatives Phased approach to distribution centre transformation network to maximise availability to customers and Ongoing monitoring of progress against milestone plans and speed-up delivery times operating objectives Now that we have successfully launched the new national Ongoing review of contingency requirement during Castle e-commerce distribution centre, we must continue to focus Donington facility ramp-up on the implementation of our single-tier network, including the full ramp-up of the Castle Donington distribution centre ahead of Christmas peak trading.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 17 Description Mitigating activities Selling channels: We have ambitious plans for our UK, International and Multi-channel businesses as part of our transformation to be an international, multi-channel retailer M&S.
com business resilience Dual site M&S.
com command centre operates 24 7 to monitor A major failure of our M&S.
com platform or at our website availability and performance Social media monitored 24 7 to observe and respond to trends Castle Donington distribution centre impacts our in customer experience online ability to trade online Business continuity plans, incident reporting and management As our online agship grows and our network infrastructure procedures are well established and tested with regular and operating model evolves, it will become increasingly monitoring, including quarterly Business Continuity Committee important to ensure that the M&S.
com business is resilient meetings and key dependencies are identi ed and mitigated.
International Senior International team strengthened Local knowledge provided by franchise and joint venture Our plan to grow our International business is partnerships limited by performance in legacy markets, the Frequent monitoring of performance, including individual start-up pro tability of new markets and country reviews and a particular focus on like-for-like substandard infrastructure performance and poor performing stores As we continue to increase our international presence and Property Board approval of new store openings and monitoring build our position in priority markets, it is crucial that we of returns on investment maximise performance in both legacy and new markets, Representation of International in key Group initiatives supported by robust systems and supply chain capability.
Day-to-day operation: We are a customer-centric business and strive to deliver an ef cient and effective operation GM margin Margin targets fide ned and regularly monitored Failure to improve GM margin Robust planning process for all promotional activity It is important that we deliver increased GM margin through Sourcing capability strengthened through hiring two overseas improved design and sourcing capability, whilst continuing Sourcing Directors to drive improvements to product quality.
End-to-end review of General Merchandise design, trading and sourcing underway Clothing Quality Charter embedded Information security Extensive security controls in place in accordance with We experience a major breach in cyber, system or International Standards ISO 27002 Established processes, policies and technologies in place information security designed to enhance security The business is subject to external threats from hackers or Tight control of sensitive data through limited and monitored viruses, or sensitive data is accessed without authorisation.
access and the roll-out of systems possessing enhanced security Established team dedicated to managing security requirements for the new M&S.
com platform IT change Established Change Approval Board process Clear decision-making process for system changes, including Unforeseen impact of IT changes to new and existing the adoption of change freezes during critical trading periods systems disrupts business operations Proactive management of cross-programme dependencies As we undertake a number of signi cant change including release management to group system changes programmes, the rate and scale of IT change remains high, together with potential to signi cantly impact our complex and Robust Disaster Recovery plans in place for critical interdependent systems.
business applications The Group Risk Pro le will evolve as mitigating activities succeed in reducing the net risk over time, or as new risks emerge.
As such, we have removed three risks from our Group Risk Pro le since the prior year: Economic outlook: the economic environment in which we operate will always present an inherent risk to our business.
Our ability to respond to market changes is key and this is re ected within the risk related to Our people Multi-channel: we have successfully launched the multi-channel platform on time and on budget GM stock management: this no longer features in our principal risks, recognising our increased controls in this area There are three new risks Information security, GM margin and M&S.
Two have been updated: GM customer engagement 2013: GM product, and GM logistics and supply chain network 2013: Distribution centre restructure.
The remaining five risks are broadly consistent with the prior year.
The risks listed do not comprise all those associated with Marks & Spencer and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on the business.
Further information on the financial risks we face and how they are managed is provided on pages 112 to 115.
