Principal Risks and Uncertainties The following risks are, in the opinion of the Board, the principal risks which affect Marstons both financially and reputationally.
It is not intended to be a complete analysis of all risks and may change over time.
External Risks Economic Factor Risk Impact Linked Objectives Mitigation We rely upon the Economic uncertainty.
A fall in consumer Maximise return on Value-for-money proposition.
spending capacity of our confidence could impact investment.
Customer choice, flexible pricing options customers.
The basic cost on our sales, and our Sustainable growth.
and a range of pub brands and formats.
of living could rise at a investment plans.
Investment in new Competitive offering.
High standards of service and quality.
F-Plan: eating out often remains resilient to difficult economic conditions.
Movement The economic climate has improved this year and there is less uncertainty in the short term.
Unemployment is falling, however overall the cost of living relative to wages has increased and there is the possibility of an interest rate increase next year.
Regulatory Factor Risk Impact Linked Objectives Mitigation Marstons operates across Changes in regulation Increased regulation Maximise return on Maintain excellent levels of compliance heavily regulated areas impacting on the cost of affecting Marstons investment.
alcohol licensing, food business, or obstructing directly, our tenants or our Sustainable growth.
Robust health and safety management hygiene, alcohol growth.
suppliers could impact on systems.
Growth of our production, transport, profit by increasing the franchised pub estate.
Compliance Committee monitors property development cost of compliance.
compliance and responds to changes in and property regulation.
Active consultation with Government, trade bodies and the BBPA.
Movement The Government have announced their intention to bring in a Statutory Code and an Independent Adjudicator to regulate the relationship between pub companies and their tenants.
In mitigation of this risk Marstons already operates a Code of Practice, and handles its lease and tenancy agreements in a fair and transparent manner.
Additionally, Parliament has recently voted to introduce a market rent only option for tenanted and leased pubs which, if implemented, would have the effect of providing licensees with free-of-tie agreements.
In recent years, Marstons has taken steps which minimise the impact of this proposed change, including the introduction of franchise-style agreements in 535 pubs and the disposal of weaker pubs as described in the Strategic Report.
We will continue to keep this under review pending clarification of the details of the legislation.
Investment plans Factor Risk Impact Linked Objectives Mitigation Increased competition for Investment plans do not Reduced return on Maximise return on In-house property team with many years of development sites for new meet expectations.
new pub-restaurants is Investment in new Tracking of new site availability.
Well managed pipeline of sites into the Reduction in leverage.
Movement Competition for new-build sites has been strong and this is likely to continue, however no shortage of opportunities is envisaged.
Marstons has a strong pipeline of sites in development and, in recent years, has expanded its new-build pub-restaurant programme into Scotland.
14 Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Internal Risks Operational Information Technology Factor Risk Impact Linked Objectives Mitigation Marstons has a heavy Network outage.
Loss, Reduction in the Sustainable growth.
reliance upon IT networks theft or corruption of data.
effectiveness of High standard of Access control, password protection and IT to operate efficiently, Denial of service.
operations, business service and quality of policy adherence.
process transactions and interruption and loss of products.
Regulatory fine as a Strong reputation.
result of the loss of data.
Corporate Data recovery plans and rehearsals.
Movement Global cyber risk threats have increased in the last year.
Theft of personal data is on the increase.
There is an increased expectation that businesses must manage cyber risk as a key business risk and not just an IT related risk.
Future EU legislation could impose much higher penalties for the loss of personal data.
Marstons has conducted penetration testing on its network for many years now.
The programme of testing has recently been expanded to cover the wider cyber risk now prevalent.
People Our Staff and Licensees Factor Risk Impact Linked Objectives Mitigation Increased demand for Failure to attract or retain Financial targets and Sustainable growth.
strategic objectives are High standard of Staff appraisals and development Marstons operates in a not met.
service and quality of programmes.
Staff engagement surveys, and delivery on environment: as a result its Strong reputation.
strategic objectives have a Flexible agreements with our tenants and heavy reliance upon the franchisees.
Movement The sustained growth in our business has allowed for improvements in training programmes, and given more opportunity for staff to progress.
Visible action on points raised in staff engagement surveys, such as the proposed redevelopment of our head office, has helped keep our annual staff satisfaction score well in the top quartile.
Financial Financial Covenants and Accounting Controls Factor Risk Impact Linked Objectives Mitigation The companys financial Incorrect reporting of Loss of investor Sustainable growth.
system has to handle a financial results.
Detailed management accounts, budgets large number of Unauthorised reputational damage.
Breach of Potential loss as a result of Constant monitoring of financial ratios.
Compliance with Accurate reporting of financial covenants with fraud.
financial results is key to our lenders.
resulting in additional Business financed at Annual external audit.
running the business financial operating rates that allow profit to Extensive segregation of duties.
Access controls over the financial systems important for compliance accurately aligned with responsibilities.
Levels of authority appropriately authorised.
Movement There are strong controls mitigating this risk to a low level.
There has been no change in the risk since last year.
Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15
