Risk Management Framework Marstons has adopted a formal process of risk identification, assessment and mitigation.
The key risks to the business are evaluated and prioritised by senior management and the Corporate Risk Director.
These reviews cover strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks: the results are documented in the corporate risk register.
The Board reviews the risks annually.
The Corporate Risk Director also chairs a number of committees with a responsibility for risk, including corporate social responsibility, compliance and business continuity.
BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPLIANCE TESTING CORPORATE RISK DIRECTOR INTERNAL AUDITING Risks & controls subject to internal auditing and compliance testing ENTERPRISE WIDE RISK MANAGEMENT Regular risk assessments, corporate risk register, risk ownership, mitigating controls identified and reviewed BUSINESS CONTINUITY CORPORATE SOCIAL COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE BUSINESS CONTINUITY SYSTEMS GROUP H&S MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SITE SECURITY Maintenance of crisis plans, business impact Group auditing, policies, incident reporting, Risk assessment, system analysis, scenario testing, emergency escalation of risks, remedial actions, accident evaluation, new technology messaging investigation RISK TRANSFER Insurance policies insurance captive company self-insurance levels claims Controls mitigating the key risks are identified.
Management are The Corporate Risk Director manages internal auditing and responsible for monitoring and reporting on the effectiveness of the compliance testing.
The internal audit strategy takes into account the controls.
This process helps to ensure that risk management is key business risks and provides assurance to the Audit Committee on continually embedded in the operations of the business.
the effectiveness of the management systems mitigating them to an acceptable level.
The results of audits and compliance tests are Day-to-day responsibility for operational risks, at the level of the pub reported to the Audit Committee and the executive members of the or brewery, rests with the pub managers and Head Brewers.
controls operated at each site are part of wider management systems designed to reduce internal risks, including food hygiene, health and safety, business continuity and security.
The Corporate Risk Director is responsible for examining whether this risk management framework is effective, and is keeping pace with changes in business operations, regulations and other external factors.
Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13
