Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee We are committed to pay being aligned to performance, while ensuring that we are able to attract and retain the employees critical to delivering our strategy.
Dear Fellow Shareholders Against this background, the Committee Contents As Chairman of the Board Remuneration approved a Group incentive pool of 1,506m, Page Committee, I am pleased to introduce the down 2% from 2016.
This decision recognises Remuneration report for 2017. the strong strategic execution across the Annual statement 93 Group, while being clear that Group returns As in previous years, we are committed to pay At a glance performance and pay are not yet where our shareholders, and the being aligned to performance, while ensuring for 2017 95 Board, want them to be.
The Committee also that we are able to attract and retain the 2017 Group incentives 96 recognises the need to ensure that areas of employees critical to delivering our strategy.
strong performance within the businesses are Remuneration policy for all The Committee believes that our pay outcomes rewarded competitively, with key talent employees 97 for 2017 reflect overall Group performance, retained to deliver against our growth strategy Directors remuneration policy 100 recognising improvements in profit before tax going into 2018 and beyond.
This pool also Annual report on Directors' and significant achievements in restructuring reflects appropriate adjustments for risk and remuneration 103 the Group, while acknowledging the need for conduct matters, which continue to be taken further improvement in returns.
very seriously by the Committee.
Further details on our performance and the Key remuneration decisions for decisions we have made on remuneration are executive Directors outlined below.
The Committee considered the executive Remuneration Directors performance against the financial Performance and Pay Committee members and strategic non-financial performance 2017 has been a year of significant strategic measures which had been set to reflect progress for the Group, achieving a number of Chairman Crawford Gillies company priorities for 2017.
Separately, milestones to deliver a simpler organisation.
performance against their personal objectives Members Tim Breedon These include the sell down of our was assessed on an individual basis.
Mary Francis shareholding in Barclays Africa Group Limited Dambisa Moyo BAGL, the closure of Non-Core and the Based on Jes Staleys performance against the launch of the Group Service Company.
A great performance measures set at the beginning of deal has been accomplished in relation to the the year, the Committee approved a 2017 UK ring-fencing requirements, establishing the bonus of 1,065,000 48.5% of maximum of necessary entity structure, processes and which 62.4% will be deferred in shares for a governance.
period of up to seven years.
The Committees deliberations on his 2017 personal As well as positioning the simplified Group for performance have taken account of delivery growth in 2018, Barclays has achieved a CRD against financial commitments including IV fully loaded Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 achieving the end state target range for the ratio of 13.3%, within the end state target CET1 ratio as well as improvements to our range.
Group profit before tax PBT is up 10% cost: income ratio, while recognising that there from 2016 to 3,541m driven by an 882m is still some way to go in getting returns to reduction in operating expenses.
where management, the Board and our investors expect them to be.
The Committee has also taken account of the early completion of the strategic restructuring, including the sell down of BAGL and closure of Non-Core.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 93 Governance: Remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee Fair pay agenda Looking ahead Committee noted the significant work that has taken place in planning following the EU We are committed to fair pay, ensuring that all The Committee continues to monitor with our employees are appropriately and fairly interest the Government's proposals in respect referendum outcome.
The Committee also recognised that Jes Staley has made continued rewarded for their contributions.
This concept of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which touches on many areas of our work, including will be an area of focus for the Committee and progress towards ensuring a high performing culture in line with our Values, and Barclays fair pay for the lowest paid in our organisation, the Board going into 2018. as well as the alignment of executive reward has made improvements in some customer In relation to fair pay, we have already chosen and client metrics such as a reduction in outcomes with business performance.
to publish our pay ratios on page 110 of this Additionally, the Board is committed to customer complaints, while noting the need report, two years in advance of the for further improvement.
As announced last individuals being able to progress through the Government requirements to reflect the ratios organisation based on capability and year, the Committee will keep Jes Staley's 2016 between the pay of our Group Chief Executive variable remuneration under review pending performance and irrespective of any other and our UK employees.
We will continue to difference such as gender, age, ethnicity, the outcome of the investigation relating to review our fair pay policies and practices to his involvement in a whistleblowing matter.
religion, sexual orientation or disability.
We ensure that they remain appropriate as this take employees' views into consideration The Committee will make a final decision on important topic continues to evolve.
outcome once that investigation is complete.
throughout our deliberations and continue to review potential approaches to build on this.
We will also continue to work on the Based on Tushar Morzaria's performance remuneration aspects of changes associated against the performance measures set at the Barclays commitment to fair pay is illustrated with Structural Reform, such as the addition beginning of the year, the Committee by the repositioning of the incentive pools of Remuneration Committees representing the approved a 2017 bonus of 747,000 50.5% of over recent years, during which incentive two main subsidiary businesses.
maximum of which 46.5% will be deferred in funding has been directed to provide more to We will, of course, continue to engage shares for a period of up to seven years.
The junior employees, and our active engagement Committee in particular noted that Tushar on pay matters with our unions to ensure that constructively with regulators, shareholders and other stakeholders and value the insight Morzaria had been instrumental in the our staff are fairly treated across the execution of the strategy including the sell organisation.
The current 2017-2019 pay deal these discussions provide.
down of BAGL, the closure of Non-Core, the with Unite commits to a 7.5% agreed salary setting up of the ring-fenced bank in the UK increase budget for the Unite recognised Remuneration report population and a minimum increase of 10% We have provided an 'At a glance' summary of and in Barclays achieving its end state range capital position.
Tushar Morzaria has also for the most junior graded employees over the 2017 performance and pay on the next page.
course of the three year deal.
Barclays is also a The annual report on Directors' remuneration demonstrated effective management of key external stakeholders.
long-standing supporter of the Living Wage provides further details.
An abridged version under which Barclays commits to pay all UK of the DRP, as approved at the 2017 AGM, is The Committee decided to make an award permanent employees and those UK set out on pages 100 to 102 for information.
under the 2018-2020 Long Term Incentive employees of third party contractors at least Plan LTIP cycle to Jes Staley and Tushar In line with the UK regulations, we are seeking the current London or UK Living Wage.
This is Morzaria based on their performance in shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM for the a commitment which we have also extended 2017 with a face value at grant of 120% of Remuneration report other than the part to our UK employed apprentices.
By March their respective Total fixed pay at 31 December containing the abridged version of the DRP.
2018, the entry level for permanent, non- 2017.
The Committee reviewed the Further details can be found in the 2018 AGM apprentice employees will already be above performance measures of the LTIP to ensure Notice of Meeting.
the Living Wage target level set for 2020 by they are appropriate given our growth the Government, two years early.
Similarly, strategy and align the interests of executive Barclays will meet the 2020 target level for its Directors and shareholders.
Return on tangible apprentice population by 2019.
Crawford Gillies equity RoTE and cost: income ratio have Chairman, Board Remuneration Committee been retained as the key financial metrics, Further detail of our activities in relation to fair 21 February 2018 with the weighting on RoTE increased to 50% pay may be found on pages 98 to 99. to emphasise the focus on improving returns Barclays has published its UK Gender Pay Gap across the Group.
The calibrations have also report for the first time this year in line with been established to maintain direct alignment UK requirements and further details can be with the Group's financial targets.
The found in the People section on pages 90 to 92. weighting on the cost: income ratio remains unchanged at 20%.
CET1 ratio remains a key financial metric, but given the end state target range of c13% has been achieved, the Committee concluded that this would now be more appropriate as an underpin measure on RoTE instead of a standalone measure.
In line with the Directors remuneration policy DRP approved at the 2017 AGM, both executive Directors Fixed Pay will be unchanged for 2018 at 2,350,000 for Jes Staley and 1,650,000 for Tushar Morzaria.
94 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Remuneration report At a glance performance and pay for 2017 Group performance and pay Key strategic highlights 3,541m 5.6% 73% Non-Core closed early Completion of BAGL sell down Profit before tax Group RoTE ex.
litigation Cost: income ratio Launch of the Group Service Company up 10% and conduct and other favourable 3% Preparatory work to establish UK ringmaterial items fenced entity Pay outcomes Group incentive pool has reduced by 57 7,123m 1,506m since 2010 Total compensation costs Group incentive pool Group compensation to net income ratio down 4% down 2% reduced to 38.0% from 39.0% Material items consist of charges for PPI, losses relating to the sell down of BAGL and a one-off net charge due to the re-measurement of US deferred tax assets.
Executive Directors: Performance outcomes Annual bonus 2015-2017 Long-term incentive plan a Jes Staley b Tushar Morzaria Tushar Morzaria only 1,065k 747k 882k 48.5 of maximum 50.5 of maximum 52.7 of maximum By reference to Q4 2017 average share price Performance measures % weightings 0% 50% 100% Performance measures % weightings 0% 50% 100% Financial 60% Financial 60% Profit before tax excl.
material items 22.5% Net Generated Equity 30% CET1 ratio 22.5% Core RoRWA excl.
own credit 20% Cost: income ratio excl.
material items 15% Non-Core drag on RoE excl.
material items 10% Strategic non-financial 20% Loan Loss Rate 10% Personal objectives 20% Balanced Scorecard 30% Jes Staley Tushar Morzaria Executive Directors: Remuneration outcomes Jes Staley Tushar Morzaria 2016 4.23m 2016 3.66m 2017 3.87m 2017 3.49m Max 8.30m Max 5.59m Fixed payPension and benefits Annual bonus LTIP Fixed payPension and benefits Annual bonus LTIP Jes Staley w as not a participant in the 2014-2016 and 2015-2017 LTIP cycles: the LTIP figures for 2016 and 2017 are therefore zero for him.
Jes Staley Date of appointment: 1 December 2015 Executive Directors: Share ownership Shareholding requirement policy: 5,492k minimum of 200 of Total fixed pay i. e. Fixed Pay plus Pension 9,132k within 5 years from date of appointment Tushar Morzaria Date of appointment: 15 October 2013shareholding requirement for 2 years post termination of 100 of Total Fixed Pay or pro-rata thereof introduced from 2017.
3,700k 4,354k Equivalent to 457 of salary for Jes Staley under the previous DRP.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 95 02652 Governance: Remuneration report 2017 Group incentives This section provides details of how the 2017 total incentive award decisions were made.
2017 pay and performance headlines The key performance considerations which the Committee took into account in making its remuneration decisions for 2017 are highlighted below: Significant strategic progress was made in 2017 with restructuring completed including: the closure of Non-Core completion of BAGL sell down launch of the Group Service Company preparatory work to establish the UK ring-fenced entity Group profit before tax was up 10% at 3,541m 2016: 3,230m.
Group profit before tax excluding material items was up 16% at 4,242m 2016: 3,649m Group RoTE was negative 3.6% 2016: positive 3.6%.
Excluding litigation and conduct and other material items, Group RoTE was 5.6% Group CET1 ratio was up to13.3% 2016: 12.4%.
The pay outcomes and decisions can be summarised as follows: total compensation costs decreased 4% to 7,123m 2016: 7,445m the Group incentive pool was down 2% at 1,506m 2016: 1,533m Group compensation to net income ratio was 38.0% 2016: 39.0% Corporate and Investment Bank CIB front-office incentive awards were also slightly down at 864m 2016: 875m.
CIB front-office compensation to net income ratio was 26.1% 2016: 26.7% robust differentiation based on business and individual performance.
Material items in 2016 included provisions for UK customer redress 1bn, gain on disposal of Barclays' share of Visa Europe Limited 615m and own credit 35m.
2017 incentive award decisions The Committees 2017 incentives decisions took full consideration of financial and non-financial performance and also the material repositioning of incentives undertaken since 2010.
Since 2010, the Group incentive pool has declined steadily, from 3,484m in 2010 to 1,506m in 2017 a decrease of 57% over seven years.
3,484m 57% Group 2,578m 2,378m 2,168m 1,860m 1,544m 1,533m 1,506m Notes a Part of the reduction in incentive pools in 2014 was due to the introduction of Role Based Pay RBP.
b The 2015 Group incentive pool has been restated from 1,669m to reflect the treatment of BAGL as a discontinued operation.
Total incentive awards granted current year Barclays Group Year ended Year ended 31.12.17 31.12.16 m m % change Incentive awards granted Incentive pool 1,432 1,459 2 Commissions and other incentives 74 74 - Total incentive awards granted 1,506 1,533 2 Reconciliation of incentive awards granted to income statement charge: Less: deferred bonuses granted but not charged in current year 302 300 1 Add: current year charges for deferred bonuses from previous years 457 690 34 a Other 29 26 Income statement charge for performance costs 1,690 1,897 11 Total compensation costs 7,123 7,445 4 Proportion of incentive pool that is deferred 31% 30% Note a Difference between incentive awards granted and income statement charge for commissions and other incentives.
96 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Remuneration report Remuneration policy for all employees This section sets out Barclays remuneration policy for all employees, explaining the philosophy underlying the structure of remuneration packages, and how this links remuneration to the achievement of sustained high performance and long-term value creation.
Remuneration philosophy In October 2015, the Committee formally adopted a revised, simplified remuneration philosophy which articulates Barclays overarching remuneration approach and is set out below.
Barclays remuneration philosophy Attract and retain talent needed to deliver Barclays strategy Long-term success depends on the talent of our employees.
This means attracting and retaining an appropriate range of talent to deliver against our strategy, and paying the right amount for that talent Align pay with investor interests Ensure employees interests are aligned with those of investors equity and debt holders, both in structure and the appropriate balance of returns Reward sustainable performance Sustainable performance means making a positive contribution to stakeholders, in both the short and longer term, playing a valuable role in society Support Barclays Values and culture Results must be achieved in a manner consistent with our Values.
Our Values and culture should drive the way that business is conducted Align with risk appetite, risk exposure and conduct expectations Designed to reward employees for achieving results in line with the Banks risk appetite and conduct expectations Be clear, transparent and as simple as possible All employees and stakeholders should understand how we reward our employees.
Remuneration structures should be as simple as possible so that everyone can understand how they work and the behaviours they reward Performance and remuneration Barclays remuneration philosophy links remuneration to achieving sustained high performance and creating long-term value.
Our remuneration philosophy applies to all employees globally across Barclays and aims to reinforce our belief that effective performance management is critical to enabling the delivery of our business strategy in line with our Values.
Employees who adhere to the Barclays Values and contribute to Barclays success are rewarded accordingly.
This is achieved by basing performance assessment on clear standards of delivery and behaviour, and starts with employees aligning their objectives what they will deliver to business and team goals in order to support the delivery of the business strategy and good client customer outcomes.
Behavioural expectations how people will achieve their objectives are set in the context of our Values.
Performance is assessed against both financial and non-financial criteria.
Other factors are also taken into consideration within the overall performance assessment, including core job responsibilities, behaviours towards risk and control, colleague and stakeholder feedback as well as input from the Risk and Compliance functions, where appropriate.
Through our approach to performance, the equal importance of both what an individual has delivered as well as how the individual has achieved this is emphasised, encouraging balanced consideration of each dimension.
Both of these elements are assessed and rated independently of each other.
There is no requirement to have an overall rating which allows for more robust and reflective conversations between managers and team members on the individual components of performance.
A key part of the performance philosophy promotes ongoing quality dialogue throughout the year.
This helps manage performance messages effectively and allows for more timely recognition as well as appropriate coaching, feedback and support where needed.
By linking individual performance assessment to Barclays strategy and our Values and, in turn, to remuneration decisions, a clear alignment between what we are striving to achieve, how we go about this, and ultimately, how we recognise this in individual financial terms is achieved.
Risk, conduct and remuneration Another key feature of our remuneration philosophy is the alignment of remuneration with our risk appetite and with the conduct expectations of Barclays, our regulators and stakeholders.
The Committee takes risk and conduct events very seriously and ensures that there are appropriate adjustments to individual remuneration and, where necessary, the incentive pool.
The Remuneration Review Panel, which reports to the Committee, supports the Committee in this process.
The Panel is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer and includes senior representatives from the key control functions of Risk, Compliance, Internal Audit, Legal and HR as well as the CEOs of Barclays UK and Barclays International.
It sets the policy and processes for assessing compensation adjustments for risk and conduct events.
We have robust processes for considering risk and conduct as part of individual performance management processes with outcomes reflected in individual remuneration decisions.
Line managers have primary accountability for ensuring that risk and conduct issues are considered when assessing performance and making remuneration decisions.
In addition, there is a secondary review by the control functions for individuals involved in significant failures of risk management, conduct issues, regulatory actions or other major incidents which impact either the Group or business to ensure these issues are also considered.
When considering individual responsibility, a variety of factors are taken into account such as whether an individual was directly responsible or whether the individual, by virtue of seniority, could be deemed indirectly responsible, including staff who drive the Groups culture and set its strategy.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 97 Governance: Remuneration report Remuneration policy for all employees Actions which may be taken where risk management and conduct falls below required standards include: Adjustment Current year annual bonuses are adjusted downwards where individuals are found to be responsible either directly or indirectly in a risk or misconduct event.
Malus Deferred unvested bonuses from prior years are subject to malus provisions which enable the Committee to reduce the vesting level of deferred bonuses including to nil at its discretion.
Events which may lead the Committee to do this include, but are not limited to, employee misconduct or a material failure of risk management.
Clawback Clawback applies to any variable remuneration awarded to a Material Risk Taker MRT on or after 1 January 2015 in respect of years for which they are a MRT.
Barclays may apply clawback if, at any time during the seven year period from the date on which variable remuneration is awarded to a MRT: i there is reasonable evidence of employee misbehaviour or material error, and or ii the firm or the business unit suffers a material failure of risk management, taking account of the individuals proximity to and responsibility for that incident.
Clawback may be extended to 10 years for PRA Senior Managers where there are outstanding internal or regulatory investigations at the end of the 7 year clawback period.
In addition to reductions to individuals bonuses, the Committee considers and makes collective adjustments to the incentive pool for specific risk and conduct events.
For 2017, the impact of these collective adjustments, resulting from both the direct financial impact on performance and the additional adjustments applied by the Committee, is a reduction of c. 180m.
We have also adjusted the incentive pool to take account of an assessment of a wide range of future risks including conduct, non-financial factors that can support the delivery of a strong risk management, control and conduct culture and other factors including reputation, impact on customers, markets and other stakeholders.
The Committee was supported in its consideration of this adjustment by the Board Risk Committee and the Board Reputation Committee.
Fair pay agenda Barclays continues to look holistically at different aspects of how we pay our people, to ensure that we deliver fair and effective pay for performance, with pay decisions that are aligned with Barclays Values.
This can be described as our fair pay agenda, which incorporates a number of themes currently highlighted by the government and the media, although in practice our approaches to many of these aspects have evolved over many years.
Our main areas of focus are: Fair pay for the lowest paid Ensuring our people receive a fair day's pay for a fair day's work Barclays has been committed to paying the Living Wage since 2004, with all UK permanent employees and those UK employees of third party contractors who provide services to us at our sites being paid at least the current National or London Living Wage.
This is a commitment we have also extended to all our UK employed apprentices.
By March 2018, the entry level pay for permanent, non-apprentice employees, will already be above the Living Wage target level set for 2020 by the Government, two years early.
Similarly, Barclays will meet the 2020 target Living Wage level for its apprentice population by 2019 Our current pay deal with Unite 2017-2019 commits to a 7.5% agreed salary increase budget for the Unite recognised population.
As part of the pay deal, our commitment to track the Living Wage and continue to progress junior pay will provide a 10% increase across the three years for the most junior employees.
Ensuring every individual has the opportunity to progress through the organisation and earn more Supporting initiatives to eliminate any 'glass ceiling' and ensure equal opportunities for progression for every individual We are an equal opportunities employer and have a number of initiatives in place to support diversity in our workplace e. g. increasing female representation at all levels across Barclays remains a core focus of our talent management and leadership succession processes Barclays has published its UK Gender Pay Gap for the first time this year pages 90 to 92, as well as continuing to report the proportion of women at our more senior corporate grades.
Equal pay Barclays fully supports equal pay legislation in place in the UK since 1970 Barclays is committed to ensuring all employees are fairly paid for the work they do, and that men and women receive equal pay for the same or similar roles.
We are explicit with those who make pay decisions that those pay decisions must not, directly or indirectly, take into account an individuals gender, age, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, marital status, pregnancy, maternity, shared parental, paternity or parental leave, veteran status or disability To ensure our pay decisions are fair, and reflect our legal obligations, Barclays has a number of policies and processes in place to ensure that line management decisions that are made at the beginning on hiring and throughout the employment cycle are free from unlawful bias.
This includes ensuring that our internal policies and processes are neutral in their application and free from any conscious or unconscious bias.
We also share key data annually with Unite concerning their recognised population on pay distribution.
Ensuring employees, like any other stakeholders, are appropriately represented in remuneration decision-making Employee views are represented by senior management to the Committee.
We continue to review potential approaches to build on this Employees are represented by their management through our internal remuneration decision-making processes.
We are also proud of our long-standing relationship with Unite, through which we engage positively on remuneration.
98 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Ensuring executive pay and employee pay are linked to business performance The view that executive and employee remuneration should both be linked to the performance of the Company is one shared by the Committee Pay approaches for our executive Directors are demonstrably aligned to business performance through financial, non-financial performance and risk based performance measures, as described in the DRP Similar performance considerations are made by the Committee when determining the appropriate level of incentive funding for all of our people.
Remuneration structure The remuneration structure for employees is closely aligned with that for executive Directors, set out in detail in the DRP which can be found on pages 108 to 120 of the 2016 Annual Report.
The primary exception being that the executive Directors participate in the Barclays LTIP and receive part of their Fixed Pay in Barclays PLC shares.
Employees receive salary, pension and other benefits and are eligible to be considered for an annual bonus.
Employees in some customer-facing businesses participate in formulaic incentive plans, including plans which have good customer outcomes as the primary performance measure.
The plans also recognise how results have been achieved in line with Barclays Values.
Some senior employees also receive Role Based Pay RBP.
Remuneration of MRTs is subject to the 2:1 maximum ratio of variable to fixed remuneration.
Capital requirements regulation CRR quantitative disclosures on MRTs are set out on pages 189 to 191 of Barclays PLC 2017 Pillar 3 Report.
The remuneration of employees engaged in control functions is determined independently from the business they support and within the parameters of the incentive pool allocated to them by the Committee.
Remuneration for control function employees is less weighted towards variable remuneration as compared to front-office employees and variable remuneration is typically limited to one times fixed remuneration.
This leads to less volatility in overall control function remuneration as compared to front-office outcomes.
Fixed remuneration Salary Salaries reflect individuals skills and experience and are reviewed annually in the context of annual performance assessment.
They are increased where justified by role change, increased responsibility or a change in the appropriate market rate.
Salaries may also be increased in line with local statutory requirements and in line with union and works council commitments.
Role Based Pay A small number of senior employees receive a class of fixed pay called RBP to recognise the seniority, breadth and depth of their RBP role.
Pension and The provision of a competitive package of benefits is important to attracting and retaining the talented staff needed to deliver benefits Barclays strategy.
Employees have access to a range of country-specific company-funded benefits, including pension schemes, healthcare, life assurance and Barclays share plans as well as other voluntary employee funded benefits.
The cost of providing these benefits is defined and controlled.
Variable remuneration Annual bonus Annual bonuses incentivise and reward the achievement of Group, business and individual objectives, and reward employees for demonstrating individual behaviours in line with Barclays Values.
The ability to recognise performance through variable remuneration enables the Group to control its cost base flexibly and to react to events and market circumstances.
Bonuses remain a key feature of remuneration practice in the highly competitive and mobile market for talent in the financial services sector.
The Committee is careful to control the proportion of variable to fixed remuneration paid to individuals and also to ensure an appropriate amount is deferred to future years.
The typical deferral structures are: For MRTs: For non-MRTs: Incentive award Amount deferred Incentive award Amount deferred 500,000 40% of total award Up to 65,000 0% 500,000 to 1,000,000 60% of total award 65,000 Graduated level of deferral 1,000,000 60% up to 1,000,000 100% above 1,000,000 Deferred bonuses are generally delivered in equal portions as deferred cash and deferred shares subject to the rules of the deferred cash and share plans as amended from time to time and continued service.
Deferred bonuses are subject to either a 3, 5 or 7 year deferral period in line with regulatory requirements.
Where dividend equivalents cannot be delivered on deferred bonus shares, the number of deferred bonus shares awarded will be calculated using a share price discounted to reflect the absence of dividend equivalents during the vesting period.
Share plans Alignment of senior employees with shareholders is achieved through deferral of incentive pay.
We also encourage wider employee shareholding through the all-employee share plans.
86% of the global employee population is eligible to participate up from 82% in 2016. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 99 Go Gov vernance: R ernance: Remuner emuneration r ation report eport Directors remuneration policy This section sets out a summary of the Barclays forward-looking DRP and is provided for information only.
The DRP was approved at the 2017 AGM held on 10 May 2017 and applies for three years from that date.
The full DRP can be found on pages 108 to 120 of the 2016 Annual Report or at home.
Remuneration policy summary executive Directors Element and purpose Operation Implementation in 2018 Fixed Pay Fixed Pay is determined with reference to market practice and historical No change from 2017.
To reward skills and experience market data on which the Committee receives independent advice, Jes Staley: 2,350,000 appropriate for the breadth and and reflects the individuals experience and role.
Tushar Morzaria: 1,650,000 depth of the role and to provide Total compensation is benchmarked against comparable roles in banks.
These amounts are fixed and will the basis for a competitive 50% of Fixed Pay is delivered in cash paid monthly, and 50% is not change during the policy remuneration package delivered in shares.
The shares are delivered quarterly and are subject to period for these individuals.
a holding period with restrictions lifting over five years 20% each year.
As the executive Directors beneficially own the shares, they will be entitled to any dividends paid on those shares.
There are no performance measures.
Malus and clawback provisions do not apply to Fixed Pay.
Pension Executive Directors receive an annual cash allowance in lieu of No change from 2017.
To enable executive Directors participation in a pension arrangement.
Jes Staley: 396,000 to build long-term retirement Tushar Morzaria: 200,000 savings These amounts are fixed and will not change during the policy period for these individuals.
Benefits Executive Directors benefits provision includes, but is not restricted to, No change from 2017.
To provide a competitive and private medical cover, annual health check, life and ill health income cost effective benefits package protection, car cash allowance, and use of a Company vehicle and appropriate to the role and driver when required for business purposes.
location In addition to the above, if an executive Director were to relocate, additional support would be provided for a defined and limited period of time in line with Barclays general employee mobility policy.
Barclays will pay the tax on relocation costs but will not tax equalise and will also not pay tax on any other employment income.
Annual bonus The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 80% of Total fixed pay.
For Details of performance measures To reward delivery of shortthese purposes Total fixed pay is Fixed Pay plus Pension.
are set out on page 109. term financial targets set each The performance measures include financial and non-financial Shares issued are subject to a year, the individual measures which also include risk related measures and personal holding period of one year after performance of the executive objectives.
Financial measures will be at least 60% of the bonus vesting.
Directors in achieving those opportunity.
The Committee has discretion to vary the measures and targets, and their contribution As dividend equivalents are not their respective weighting within each category.
to delivering Barclays strategic permissible under regulations, the Annual bonuses are delivered as a combination of cash and shares, a objectives number of shares to be awarded proportion of which may be deferred and or subject to a holding period.
will be calculated using a share Delivery in part in shares with a Deferral proportions and vesting profiles will be structured so that, in price discounted to reflect the holding period increases combination with any LTIP award, the proportion of variable pay that is absence of dividend equivalents alignment with shareholders.
deferred is no less than that required by regulations.
Deferred bonuses encourage Dividend equivalents are payable on vested deferred bonus shares.
If longer term focus and dividend equivalents are not permissible under regulations, the number retention of shares to be awarded will be determined using a share price discounted by reference to the expected dividend yield.
A notional discount may be applied to deferred bonuses for the purposes of calculating the 2:1 cap to the extent permitted by regulations.
Awards are subject to malus during the vesting period and clawback for a period of seven years 10 years in specific circumstances from the date of award.
100 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Element and purpose Operation Implementation in 2018 Annual bonus Non-deferred cash components of any bonus are paid following the continued performance year to which they relate, normally in March.
Non-deferred share bonuses are also awarded normally in March and are subject to a holding period after the payment of tax in line with regulations.
Deferred share bonuses are structured so that no deferred shares vest faster than permitted by regulations currently in five equal tranches with the first vesting on or around the third anniversary of grant and the last tranche vesting on or around the seventh anniversary of grant.
Any shares that vest are subject to an additional holding period after payment of tax in line with regulations.
Long Term Incentive Plan The maximum annual LTIP award is 120% of Total fixed pay.
For these Details of performance measures LTIP award purposes Total fixed pay is Fixed Pay plus Pension.
and targets for awards to be made To reward execution of in 2018 in respect of 2017 are Forward-looking performance measures will be based on financial Barclays strategy over a set out on page 107. performance and other long-term strategic measures.
Financial multi-year period measures will be at least 70% of the total opportunity.
Straight-line For awards to be made in respect Long-term performance vesting applies between threshold and maximum for the financial of 2018, the measures and targets measures with no more than 25% vesting at threshold performance.
measurement, deferral and will be determined at the end of holding periods encourage a 2018 for the performance period LTIP awards are structured so that when combined with the annual long-term view and align commencing on 1 January 2019. bonus the proportion of variable pay that is deferred is no less than that executive Directors interests required by regulations.
On vesting, the award is subject with those of shareholders.
The Committee has discretion to vary the measures year on year and to a holding period of one year.
Malus and clawback provisions their respective weighting within each category.
The Committee also discourage excessive riskAs dividend equivalents are not has discretion to amend targets, measures and the number of awards in taking and inappropriate permissible under regulations, the exceptional circumstances and to reduce the vesting of any award, behaviours number of shares to be awarded including to nil, if it deems that the outcome is not consistent with will be calculated using a share performance.
price discounted to reflect the Dividend equivalents are payable on vested deferred shares.
If dividend absence of dividend equivalents equivalents are not permissible under the regulations, the number of during the vesting period.
shares to be awarded will be determined using a share price discounted by reference to the expected dividend yield.
A notional discount may be applied to LTIP awards for the purposes of calculating the 2:1 cap to the extent permitted by regulations.
No LTIP award vests before the third anniversary of grant and an award vests no faster than permitted by regulations currently in five equal tranches with the first tranche vesting on or around the third anniversary of grant and the last tranche vesting on or around the seventh anniversary of the grant date.
Shareholding requirement Executive Directors must build up a shareholding of 200% of Total fixed No change from 2017.
To further enhance the pay i. e. Fixed Pay plus Pension within five years from the date of alignment of shareholders and appointment as executive Director.
Equivalent to 457% of salary for executive Directors interests in Executive Directors must also continue to hold a shareholding of 100% the Group Chief Executive under long-term value creation of Total fixed pay or pro-rata thereof for two years post-termination.
Executive Directors are also entitled to participate in all employee share plans, for example Barclays Sharesave and Barclays Sharepurchase, on the same basis as all other employees.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 101 Governance: Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Remuneration policy summary non-executive Directors Element and purpose Operation Implementation In 2018 Fees The Chairman and Deputy Chairman are paid an all-inclusive fee for all No change from 2017.
The Chairman has a minimum time commitment responsibilities and equivalent to at least 80% of a full-time role.
The other non-executive membership of Board Directors receive a basic Board fee, with additional fees payable where Committees and are set to individuals serve as a member or Chairman of a Committee of the Board.
attract non-executive Directors Fees are reviewed each year by the Board as a whole.
Other than in who have relevant skills and exceptional circumstances, fees will not increase by more than 20% experience to oversee the above the current fee levels during this policy period basic fees last implementation of our strategy increased in 2011.
Fees are set at a level which 30,000 Chairman: 100,000 after tax and national insurance reflects the role, responsibilities contributions per annum of each non-executive Directors basic fee is and time commitment which used to purchase Barclays shares which are retained on the nonare expected from the executive Directors behalf until they retire from the Board.
Chairman, Deputy Chairman and non-executive Directors Some non-executive Directors may also receive fees as directors of subsidiary companies of Barclays PLC.
Benefits The Chairman is provided with private medical cover subject to the No change from 2017. terms of the Barclays scheme rules from time to time, and is provided with the use of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business purposes.
Benefits which are minor in nature and do not exceed a cost of 500 may be provided to non-executive Directors in specific circumstances.
Expenses The Chairman and non-executive Directors are reimbursed for any No change from 2017. reasonable and appropriate expenses incurred for business reasons.
Any tax that arises on these reimbursed expenses is paid by Barclays.
Service contracts and letters of appointment All executive Directors have a service contract whereas all non-executive Directors have a letter of appointment.
Copies of the service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The dates of the current Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are shown in the table below.
Effective date Chairman John McFarlane 1 January 2015 non-executive Director, 24 April 2015 Chairman Executive Directors Jes Staley 1 December 2015 Tushar Morzaria 15 October 2013 Non-executive Directors Mike Ashley 18 September 2013 Tim Breedon 1 November 2012 Sir Ian Cheshire 3 April 2017 Mary Francis 1 October 2016 Crawford Gillies 1 May 2014 Sir Gerry Grimstone 1 January 2016 Reuben Jeffery III 16 July 2009 Matthew Lester 1 September 2017 Dambisa Moyo 1 May 2010 Diane Schueneman 25 June 2015 Mike Turner 1 January 2018 102 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration This section explains how our Directors remuneration policy was implemented during 2017.
Executive Directors Executive Directors: Single total figure for 2017 remuneration audited The following table shows a single total figure for 2017 remuneration in respect of qualifying service for each executive Director together with comparative figures for 2016. a Fixed Pay Taxable benefits Annual bonus LTIP Pension Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 b Jes Staley 2,350 2,350 62 169 1,065 1,318 396 396 3,873 4,233 c Tushar Morzaria 1,614 1,550 44 44 747 854 882 1,008 200 200 3,487 3,656 Notes a The 2016 figures for Fixed Pay relate to Salary and RBP.
b Jes Staley's 2016 benefits figure includes relocation expenses.
c Tushar Morzaria's Fixed Pay increased to 1,650,000 with effect from 10 May 2017.
Additional information in respect of each element of pay for the executive Directors audited Fixed Pay Fixed Pay was introduced for 2017, replacing Salary and RBP, and is delivered 50% in cash and 50% in shares subject to a 5 year holding period lifting pro-rata.
Taxable benefits Taxable benefits include private medical cover, life and ill health income protection, tax advice, relocation, car allowance, the use of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business purposes and other benefits that are considered minor in nature.
Annual bonus Annual bonuses are typically awarded in Q1 following the financial year to which they relate.
The Committee considered the executive Directors performance against the financial 60% weighting and strategic non-financial 20% weighting performance measures which had been set to reflect company priorities for 2017.
Performance against their individual personal objectives 20% weighting was assessed on an individual basis.
2017 annual bonus outcomes Financial 60% weighting The approach taken to assessing financial performance against each of the financial measures was based on a straight-line outcome between 25% for threshold performance and 100% applicable to each measure for achievement of maximum performance.
The formulaic outcome from 2017 performance against the financial measures set at the beginning of the year gave a total of 22.5% out of 60% being payable attributable to those measures.
A summary of the assessment is provided in the following table.
Threshold Maximum 2017 2017 Financial performance measure Weighting 25% 100% Actual Outcome Profit before tax excluding material items 22.5% 5.10bn 6.20bn 4.24bn 0% CET1 ratio 22.5% 12.6% 13.0% 13.3% 22.5% Cost: income ratio excluding material items 15.0% 67.0% 63.0% 70.0% 0% Total Financial 60% 22.5% home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 103 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration Strategic 20% weighting Progress in relation to each of the strategic measures, organised around three main categories, was assessed by the Committee.
The Committee used the following scale in relation to each measure: 0% to 1% firmly below performance expectations, 1.5% to 3% slightly below performance expectations, 3.5% to 5.5% meeting or slightly exceeding performance expectations, and 6% to 7% clearly above performance expectations.
Based on this approach to assessing performance against 2017 Group Performance Measurement Framework milestones, the Committee agreed a 13% outcome out of a maximum of 20%.
The assessment is provided in the following table.
2017 Measure Outcome Customer and Client We have continued to make progress with our customer and client agenda.
However, 3.0% complaints remain an ongoing area of focus for management and the Board Barclays Relationship Net Promoter Score NPS ended the year with an improved score of 14 2016: 10 while Barclaycard UK Relationship NPS remained relatively flat 2017: 9.
Barclaycard International business also continued to perform well on Relationship NPS Underlying UK complaint volumes Barclays UK, excluding PPI reduced 13% year on year, however, there has been a small increase in PPI complaints up 2% year on year driven largely by the FCA deadline announcement.
Barclays UK complaint volumes, including PPI, were down 7% year on year.
Barclays International complaints reduced by 19% year on year.
Complaints reduction remains a priority across the Group, and despite improvements in 2017, Barclays has more work to do, as can be seen from our position in the H1 2017 FCA complaints tables in the UK The number of customers and clients in the UK using our digital services on a regular basis has increased to over 10 million customers 2016: nearly 9.5m In our home markets of the UK and US, our CIB ranked 6th place by fee share across M&A, equity and debt capital markets and syndicated loan transactions 2016: 5th : and we were highly encouraged by the 1st place CIB ranking in the UK Dealogic.
Colleague Overall this has been a year of progress on increasing the diversity of our workforce and in 4.5% building an inclusive and engaged culture Employee sustainable engagement improved by 3% year on year to 78%, with the majority of key survey question results recording improvements and the rest remaining stable We remain focused on improving our gender diversity.
We have made a 1% improvement in the percentage of female Managing Directors and Directors to 23% on a like for like basis excluding Africa.
Recognising the importance of strengthening our talent pipeline, we also have an ambition for 50% female graduate hires and have ended 2017 at 40% External recognition includes: Stonewall recognising Barclays as one of 12 Top Global Employers: the Human Rights Campaign awarding Barclays 100% on their corporate equality index: Working Families UK recognising Barclays as one of the top 10 Employers for Working Families in 2017: and Barclays was acknowledged as a Top 50 Employer through the Social Mobility Employer Index in 2017.
Citizenship This has been a very positive year in the Citizenship space, with further progress in many areas 5.5% We helped upskill over 2.1 million people 2016 1.7 million, driven by a range of regional employability partnerships and our flagship LifeSkills programme in the UK Barclays delivered 31.7bn in financing for selected social and environmental segments 2016: 30.5bn We helped empower around 205,000 people 2016: 249,000 through initiatives such as: Barclaycard Initial for those with a limited credit history: our Digital Eagles network, comprised of specially trained Barclays' employees working to provide free technology support to customers and non-customers: and the continued development of learning platforms We reduced carbon emissions by 26.1% against the 2015 baseline, making good progress against our target of 30% reduction by 2018 We also achieved 89% 2016: 88% on-time payment by value to our suppliers, ahead of our target of 85%, and published an updated Statement on Modern Slavery.
13% out of 20% Further details on the Group Performance Measurement Framework can be found on pages 15 to 22.
104 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Individual outcomes including assessment of personal objectives Performance against each of the executive Directors individual personal objectives 20% weighting overall was assessed by the Committee on an individual basis.
i Jes Staley A summary of the assessment for Jes Staley against his specific performance measures is provided in the following table.
2017 Performance measure Weighting Outcome Financial See table on page 103 60% 22.5% Strategic See table on page 104 20% 13.0% Personal objectives Judgemental assessment see below 20% 13.0% Total 100% 48.5% Final outcome approved by the Remuneration Committee 48.5% The Committee assessed Jes Staleys performance against his 2017 personal objectives as set out on page 126 of the 2016 Annual Report.
In relation to the joint personal objectives, the Committee has taken account of delivery against financial commitments including achieving the end state target range for the CET1 ratio as well as improvements to our cost: income ratio, while recognising that there is still some way to go in getting returns where management, the Board and our investors expect them to be.
The Committee has also recognised the early closure of Non-Core and successful reintegration of remaining assets businesses into Core as well as the achievement of the accounting deconsolidation and regulatory proportional consolidation of BAGL.
It noted that the Structural Reform programme has been well executed, with the launch of the Group Service Company achieved.
The Committee noted the significant work that has taken place in planning following the EU referendum outcome.
Risk and control have also continued to be managed effectively, with further progress in resolving legacy conduct and litigation matters.
In relation to his individual objectives, the Committee recognises that Jes Staley has made continued progress towards ensuring a high performing culture in line with our Values, and employee engagement has been strengthened in 2017.
Barclays has made improvements in some customer and client metrics such as a reduction in customer complaints, while noting the need for further improvement.
Succession planning for senior roles has been improved, and continued progress made in improving the percentage of women in senior leadership roles 5th consecutive year increasing the percentage of female Managing Directors and Directors.
Finally, significant improvements have been made to the Group's control environment, with a focus on operations and technology infrastructure, particularly through the establishment of the Group Service Company.
While recognising the strong strategic delivery, given some of the remaining challenges, particularly around returns, the Committee judged that 13% of a maximum of 20% attributable to individual objectives was appropriate.
In aggregate, the performance assessment for Jes Staley resulted in an overall formulaic outcome of 48.5% of maximum bonus opportunity being achieved.
The Committee considered the outcome and agreed that a 2017 annual bonus of 1,065,000 48.5% of maximum was appropriate, of which 62.4% is deferred under the Share Value Plan in line with the Group-wide deferral structure.
ii Tushar Morzaria A summary of the assessment for Tushar Morzaria against his specific performance measures is provided in the following table.
2017 Performance measure Weighting Outcome Financial See table on page 103 60% 22.5% Strategic See table on page 104 20% 13.0% Personal objectives Judgemental assessment see below 20% 15.0% Total 100% 50.5% Final outcome approved by the Remuneration Committee 50.5% The Committee assessed Tushar Morzarias performance against his 2017 personal objectives as set out on page 126 of the 2016 Annual Report.
In relation to the joint personal objectives, the Committee recognised Tushar Morzaria's contribution to the financial outcomes, including achieving the end state target range for the CET1 ratio as well as improvements to our cost: income ratio.
The Committee also recognised that Tushar Morzaria had been instrumental in the execution of the strategy including the closure of Non-Core, the accounting deconsolidation and regulatory proportional consolidation of BAGL and the Structural Reform programme in the UK.
He has also made significant contributions to Barclays' planning in response to the EU referendum outcome and plays a key leadership role in managing risk and control as well as settling legacy conduct and litigation issues.
In relation to his individual objectives, the Committee recognises that he is extremely well respected by both internal and external stakeholders including the Board, regulators, stakeholders, investors and colleagues across the organisation, effectively managing external relationships and the reputation of the Group.
He has also continued to strengthen his team within Finance and has exemplified the Values expected by the Board - he is tireless in his commitment to the organisation and defines the notion of partnership.
Given his strong personal performance during 2017, the Committee judged that 15% of a maximum 20% attributable to individual objectives was appropriate.
In aggregate, the performance assessment for Tushar Morzaria resulted in an overall formulaic outcome of 50.5% of maximum bonus opportunity being achieved.
The Committee considered the outcome and agreed that a 2017 annual bonus of 747,000 50.5% of maximum was appropriate, of which 46.5% is deferred under the Share Value Plan in line with the Group-wide deferral structure.
In line with the DRP, and due to the regulations prohibiting dividend equivalents being paid on unvested deferred share awards, the number of shares awarded to each executive Director under the Share Value Plan will be calculated using a share price at the date of award, discounted to reflect the absence of dividend equivalents during the vesting period.
The valuation will be aligned to IFRS 2, with the market expectations of dividends during the deferral period being assessed by an independent adviser.
These shares will vest in five equal tranches from the third to seventh anniversary subject to the rules of the Share Value Plan as amended from time to time.
All shares whether deferred or not are subject to a further one year holding period from the point of release.
2017 bonuses are subject to clawback provisions and, additionally, unvested deferred 2017 bonuses are subject to malus provisions which enable the Committee to reduce the vesting level of deferred bonuses including to nil.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 105 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration LTIP The LTIP amount included in Tushar Morzarias 2017 single total figure is the value of the amount scheduled to be released in relation to the LTIP award granted in 2015 in respect of performance period 2015-2017 by reference to Q4 2017 average share price.
As Jes Staley was not a participant in this cycle, the LTIP figure in the single figure table is zero for him.
Release is dependent on, among other things, performance over the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017 with straight-line vesting applied between the threshold and maximum points.
The performance achieved against the performance targets is as follows: Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting Actual % of award vesting a Net generated equity 30% 7.5% of award vests for Net generated equity 3,427m 30.0% Net generated equity of of 1,844m 1,363m Core return on risk weighted 20% 5% of award vests for Average annual Core 0.68% 0.0% assets RoRWA excluding average annual Core RoRWA of 1.81% own credit RoRWA of 1.34% Non-Core drag on return on 10% 2.5% of award vests for Non-Core drag on RoE -3.85% 3.7% equity RoE excluding Non-Core drag on RoE of -2.97% material items of -4.02% Loan loss rate 10% 2.5% of award vests for Average annual loss rate 54bps 10.0% average annual loan loss of 55bps or below rate of 70bps Balanced Scorecard 30% Performance against the Balanced Scorecard was See below 9.0% assessed by the Committee to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 30%.
Each of the 5Cs in the Balanced Scorecard has equal weighting.
Total 52.7% Note a Net generated equity is a metric which converts changes in the CET1 ratio into an absolute capital equivalent measure.
The measure is expressed as an average over the period.
A summary of the Committees assessment against the Balanced Scorecard performance measure over the three year performance period is provided below.
Vesting out of maximum Category Weighting Performance 6% for each C Customer and 6% Barclays UK Relationship NPS ended the year with a score 14, with improvement 1% Client also seen in Barclaycard UK Relationship NPS c. 2.
However, performance against peers remained 4th throughout the period, below our 2018 target of 1st Client Franchise Rank remained stable at 5th throughout the period.
While this is a positive result given our shift in strategy to focus more narrowly on geographies and businesses of strength in the Investment Bank, we are not on track to achieve the 2018 target of Top 3.
Colleague 6% Continued improvement of 1% per year in the female representation across senior 2% leadership roles on a like for like basis excluding Africa to 23% at the end of 2017 Colleague engagement improved from 74% in 2014 to 75% in 2015 and 2016 and to 78% in 2017.
However engagement remains significantly below our 2018 targets.
Citizenship 6% Met or exceeded 10 11 initiatives in 2015 and 6 6 Shared Growth Ambition goals in 4% 2016 and 2017.
Of particular note: Financing to social and environmental segments rising to 31.7bn in 2017 Global carbon emissions decreased 26.1% against the 2015 baseline Supplier payment on time exceeded target of 85% throughout the period.
Conduct 6% Conduct reputation, as measured by the YouGov survey, has remained at 5.4 over 0% the period and below our 2018 target of 6.5.
Company 6% Significant strengthening in the CET1 ratio over the period, with the CET1 ratio now 2% within our end-state target range However, returns excluding material items both RoE and RoTE were below target through much of the period Cost: income ratio improved but still below long term target.
Total 30% 9% The LTIP award is also subject to a discretionary underpin whereby the Committee must be satisfied with the underlying financial health of the Group.
The Committee was satisfied that this underpin was met, and accordingly determined that the award should be considered for release at 52.7% of the maximum number of shares under the total award.
The shares are scheduled to be released in March 2018.
After release, the shares are subject to an additional two year holding period.
Pension Executive Directors are paid cash in lieu of pension contributions.
The cash allowance in 2017 was 396,000 for Jes Staley and 200,000 for Tushar Morzaria.
No other benefits were received by the executive Directors from any Barclays pension plans.
106 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Executive Directors: other LTIP awards The Directors remuneration reporting regulations require inclusion in the single total figure of only the value of the LTIP awards whose last year of performance ends in the relevant financial year and whose vesting outcome is known.
For 2017, this is the award to Tushar Morzaria under the 2015-2017 LTIP cycle and further details are set out on page 106.
This section sets out other LTIP cycles in which the executive Directors participate, the outcome of which remains dependent on future performance.
LTIP awards to be granted during 2018 The Committee decided to make an award under the 2018-2020 LTIP cycle to Jes Staley and Tushar Morzaria based on their performance in 2017 with a face value at grant of 120% of their respective Total fixed pay at 31 December 2017.
The 2018-2020 LTIP award will be subject to the following forward-looking performance measures.
Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting Average return on tangible 50% 10% of award vests for average RoTE of 7.75% Average RoTE of 10.25% equity RoTE excluding based on an assumed CET1 ratio of c. 13% material items Vesting of this element will depend on CET1 levels during the performance period: a If CET1 goes below the mandatory distribution restrictions MDR hurdle in any year of the period, no part of the RoTE element will vest If CET1 goes below the MDR hurdle 150bps but remains above the hurdle during the period, the Committee will exercise its discretion to determine what portion of the RoTE element should vest, based on the causes of the CET1 reduction.
Average cost: income ratio 20% 4% of award vests for average cost: income Average cost: income ratio of 58% excluding material items ratio of 62.5% Risk Scorecard 15% The Risk Scorecard captures a range of risks and is aligned with the annual incentive risk alignment framework reviewed with the regulators.
The current framework measures performance against three broad categories - Capital and Liquidity, Control Environment and Conduct - using a combination of quantitative and qualitative metrics.
The framework may be updated from time to time in line with the Group's risk strategy.
Specific targets within each of the categories are deemed to be commercially sensitive.
Retrospective disclosure will be made in the 2020 Remuneration report, subject to commercial sensitivity no longer remaining.
Strategic Non-financial 15% The evaluation will focus on key performance measures from the Group Performance Measurement Framework, with a detailed retrospective narrative on progress throughout the period against each category.
Performance against the Strategic Non-financial measures will be assessed by the Committee to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 15%.
The measures are organised around three main categories: Customer and Client, Colleague and Citizenship.
Each of the three main categories has equal weighting.
Measures will likely include, but will not be limited to, the following: Customer and Client: NPS for consumer businesses, client rankings and market shares for the CIB, complaints performance and volume of lending provided to customers and clients.
Colleague: Diversity and Inclusion statistics including women in senior leadership, Employee sustainable engagement survey scores and conduct and culture measures.
Citizenship: Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition, Colleague engagement in Citizenship activities and external benchmarks and surveys.
Note a The CET1 ratio underpin in 2018 will reference the expected end-state MDR hurdle, currently expected to be 11.4%.
Straight-line vesting applies between the threshold and maximum points in respect of the financial measures.
The award is subject to a discretionary underpin by which the Committee must be satisfied with the underlying financial health of the Group.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 107 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration Outstanding LTIP awards i LTIP awards granted during 2016 The performance measures for the awards made under the 2016-2018 LTIP cycle are as follows: Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting Return on tangible equity 25% 6.25% of award vests for average RoTE Average RoTE of 10.0% RoTE excluding material of 7.5% items CET1 ratio must remain at or above an acceptable level for any of this element to vest.
The threshold will be reviewed and set annually based on market conditions and regulatory requirements 11.3% on 31 December 2018 CET1 ratio as at 31 December 25% 6.25% of award vests for CET1 ratio of 11.6% CET1 ratio of 12.7% 2018 Cost: income ratio excluding 20% 5% of award vests for average cost: income Average cost: income ratio of 58% material items ratio of 66% Risk Scorecard 15% Performance against the Risk Scorecard is assessed by the Committee, with input from the Group Risk function, Board Risk Committee and Board Reputation Committee as appropriate, to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 15%.
Since its introduction in 2016, the Risk Scorecard has been aligned by the Committee to the annual incentive risk alignment framework reviewed with the regulators.
Following this alignment, the current framework measures performance against three broad categories Capital and Liquidity, Control Environment and Conduct using a combination of quantitative and qualitative metrics.
Retrospective disclosure of performance will be made in the 2018 Remuneration report subject to commercial sensitivity no longer remaining.
Balanced Scorecard 15% Performance against the Balanced Scorecard is assessed by the Committee to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 15%.
Assessment will be made against progress towards the 2018 targets.
ii LTIP awards granted during 2017 An award was made to Jes Staley and Tushar Morzaria on 23 June 2017 under the 2017-2019 LTIP cycle at a share price on the date of grant of 1.9545, in accordance with our DRP.
This is the price used to calculate the face value below.
% of Number Face value Performance Total fixed pay of shares at grant period Jes Staley 120% 1,685,955 3,295,200 2017-2019 Tushar Morzaria 120% 1,074,443 2,100,000 2017-2019 The performance measures for the 2017-2019 LTIP awards are as follows: Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting Return on tangible equity 25% 6.25% of award vests for average RoTE Average RoTE excluding material items of 9.5% RoTE excluding material excluding material items of 7.5% items CET1 ratio must remain at or above an acceptable level for any of this element to vest.
The threshold will be reviewed and set annually based on market conditions and regulatory requirements 11.3% on 31 December 2018 CET1 ratio as at 25% 6.25% of award vests for CET1 ratio 100 basis CET1 ratio 200 basis points above the MDR 31 December 2019 points above the MDR hurdle hurdle Cost: income ratio excluding 20% 5% of award vests for average cost: Average cost: income ratio of 58% material items income ratio of 63% Risk Scorecard 15% The Risk Scorecard captures a range of risks and is aligned with the annual incentive risk alignment framework reviewed with the regulators.
The current framework measures performance against three broad categories Capital and Liquidity, Control Environment and Conduct using a combination of quantitative and qualitative metrics.
The framework may be updated from time to time in line with the Groups risk strategy.
Retrospective disclosure will be made in the 2019 Remuneration report.
Strategic Non-Financial 15% The evaluation will focus on key performance measures from the Group Performance Measurement Framework, with a detailed retrospective narrative on progress throughout the period against each category.
Measures will likely include, but will not be limited to, the following: Customer and Client: NPS for consumer businesses, Client rankings and market shares for the Corporate and Investment Bank, complaints performance and volume of lending provided to customers and clients.
108 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Straight-line vesting applies between the threshold and maximum points in respect of the financial measures.
Executive Directors: Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2018 The executive Directors package for 2018 can be summarised as follows.
Further details can be found on pages 100 to 101.
Jes Staley Tushar Morzaria Comments Fixed Pay 2,350,000 1,650,000 No change from 2017.
Pension 396,000 200,000 No change from 2017. a a Maximum Bonus 80% of Total fixed pay 80% of Total fixed pay Total variable opportunity unchanged.
a a Bonus and LTIP combined for regulatory Maximum LTIP 120% of Total fixed pay 120% of Total fixed pay deferral purposes.
Note a Total fixed pay is defined as Fixed Pay plus Pension.
2018 Annual bonus performance measures Performance measures with appropriately stretching targets have been selected to cover a range of financial and non-financial goals that support the key strategic objectives of the Company.
The performance measures and weightings are shown below.
Financial 60% weighting Profit before tax excluding material items 40% weighting Payout of this element will depend on the CET1 ratio during the performance year: A performance target range a If CET1 goes below the expected end-state MDR hurdle during the year, no part of this element will pay out has been set for each financial If CET1 goes below the end-state MDR hurdle 150bps but remains above the hurdle during the period, the measure.
Committee will exercise its discretion to determine what portion of this element should pay out, based on the causes of the CET1 reduction Cost: income ratio excluding material items 20% weighting.
Strategic Non-financial 20% The evaluation will focus on key performance measures from the Group Performance Measurement Framework, weighting with a detailed retrospective narrative on progress during the year against each category.
Performance against the Strategic Non-financial measures will be assessed by the Committee to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 20%.
Measures will likely include, but will not be limited to, the following: Customer and Client: NPS for consumer businesses, Client rankings and market shares for the Corporate and Investment Bank, complaints performance and volume of lending provided to customers and clients Colleague: Diversity and Inclusion statistics including women in senior leadership, Employee sustainable engagement survey scores and conduct and culture measures Citizenship: Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition, Colleague engagement in Citizenship activities and external benchmarks and surveys.
Personal 20% weighting The executive Directors have the following joint personal objectives for 2018: deliver on 2018 financial goals such that we remain on track to achieve our returns targets seek opportunities for further cost savings and optimise the capital allocation within the Group complete the Structural Reform programme successfully, ensuring the UK ring-fenced bank is fully operational finalise the implementation plan for an effective Brexit outcome continue to drive strategic initiatives to enhance growth in shareholder value in the medium term manage risk and control effectively and make continued progress in resolving outstanding conduct matters.
In addition, individual personal objectives for 2018 are as follows: Jes Staley: continue to strengthen the Banks cyber readiness, operational and financial controls further improve customer and client satisfaction, with a particular focus on reducing the number of overall complaints as part of the ongoing succession planning for Group and Business Unit Functional Executive Committees, continue the focus on improving the percentage of women in senior leader positions.
Tushar Morzaria: continue to strengthen team performance especially following the creation of the Group Service Company, talent base and employee engagement in Group Finance, Tax and Treasury demonstrate effective management of external relationships and reputation.
Note a The end-state MDR hurdle is currently expected to be 11.4%.
Detailed calibration of the Financial targets is commercially sensitive and it is not appropriate to disclose this information externally on a prospective basis.
Disclosure of achievement will be made in the 2018 Annual Report subject to the targets no longer being commercially sensitive.
The Committee may exercise its discretion to amend the formulaic outcome of assessment against the targets.
Any exercise of discretion will be disclosed and explained.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 109 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration llustratie scenarios for executie Directors reuneration The charts below show the potential value of the current executive Directors 2018 total remuneration in three scenarios: Minimum i. e. Fixed Pay, Pension and benefits, Maximum i. e. Fixed Pay, Pension, benefits and the maximum variable pay that may be awarded and Mid-point i. e. Fixed Pay, Pension, benefits and 50 of the maximum variable pay that may be awarded.
For the purposes of these charts, the value of benefits is based on an estimated annual value for 2018.
The scenarios do not reflect share price movement between award and vesting.
A significant proportion of the potential remuneration of the executive Directors is variable and is therefore performance-related.
It is also subject to deferral, additional holding periods, malus and clawback.
Total reuneration opportunit Total reuneration opportunit Group Chief Executive m Group Finance Director m Minimum Total 2.81 Minimum Total 1.89 42% 42%16% 44% 44% 12% Mid-point Total 5.55 Mid-point Total 3.74 21% 21%8%20% 30% 22% 22% 6% 20%30% Maximum Total 8.30 Maximum Total 5.59 14% 14% 6% 26% 40% 15% 15% 4% 26% 40% 0 1.53 4.56 7.5 9 0 1.53 4.56 7.5 9 Fixed cash Fixed shares Pension and Benefits Bonus LTIP Fixed cash Fixed shares Pension and Benefits Bonus LTIP In the above illustrative scenarios, benefits include regular contractual benefits.
Additional ad hoc benefits may arise, for example, overseas relocation of executive Directors, but will always be provided in line with the DRP.
Perforance graph and table The performance graph below illustrates the performance of Barclays over the financial years from 2009 to 2017 in terms of total shareholder return compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 index.
The index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies.
Total shareholder return rebased to 2 Barclays PLC Year ended 31 December FTSE 100 Index 243 250 217 210 193 182 183 180 174 184 183 187 178 173 140 154 143 127 120 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2016 2017 2015 In addition, the table below provides a summary of the total remuneration of the relevant Group Chief Executive over the same period as the above graph.
For the purpose of calculating the value of the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive, data has been collated on a basis consistent with the single figure methodology.
The table also provides pay ratios of the Group Chief Executives total remuneration to average remuneration for UK employees and the Group Executive Committee Group ExCo respectively.
ear 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2 John John Bob Bob Antony Antony Antony Antony John Jes Jes Jes a b b c d Group Chief Executive arley arley Diamond Diamond Jenkins Jenkins Jenkins Jenkins McF arlane Staley Staley tale Group Chief Executive single figure of total e f remuneration 000s 2,050 4,567 11,070 1,892 529 1,602 5,467 3,399 305 277 4,233 3,873 Annual bonus against maximum opportunity 0 100 80 0 0 0 57 48 N A N A 60 48.5 Long-term incentive vesting against maximum g g g g g g g opportunity 50 16 N A 0 N A N A 30 39 N A N A N A N A Ratio of single figure of total remuneration to: UK employee median 75 x 165 x 391 x 84 x 54 x 175 x 126 x 137 x 119 x UK employee mean 39 x 86 x 204 x 44 x 29 x 94 x 69 x 73 x 65 x Ratio of single figure of total remuneration to: Group ExCo median 0.5 x 1.0 x 2.4 x 1.2 x 0.4 x 2.2 x 1.6 x 1.1 x 1.0 x Group ExCo mean 0.3 x 0.5 x 1.3 x 0.8 x 0.4 x 2.0 x 1.3 x 1.1 x 0.7 x Notes a Bob Diamond left the Board on 3 July 2012. b Antony Jenkins became Group Chief Executive on 30 August 2012 and left the Board on 16 July 2015. c John McFarlane was Executive Chairman from 17 July 2015 to 30 November 2015.
His fees, which remained unchanged, have been pro-rated for his time in the position.
He was not eligible to receive a bonus or LTIP.
d Jes Staley became Group Chief Executive on 1 December 2015. e This figure includes 5,745k tax equalisation as set out in the 2011 Remuneration report.
Bob Diamond was tax equalised on tax above the UK rate where that could not be offset by a double tax treaty.
f Antony Jenkins 2014 pay is higher than in earlier years since he declined a bonus in 2012 and 2013 and did not have LTIP vesting in those years.
g Not a participant in a long-term incentive award which vested in the period.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information As we focus on our fair pay agenda, we are publishing our CEO pay ratios two years in advance of the disclosure becoming a statutory requirement.
The pay ratios compare amounts disclosed in the single total figure table for the Group Chief Executive to a the median and mean annual total compensation of all UK employees, and b the median and mean annual total compensation of the Group ExCo.
Where there was more than one Group Chief Executive in a given year 2012 and 2015, the pay ratio references the sum of the Group Chief Executive single total figures for that year.
It is worth noting that the ratios can be volatile.
This is a result of a number of factors, including the tenure of our Group Chief Executives and the variation in LTIP payouts in some years, the Group Chief Executive may not be a participant in a vesting LTIP.
Our current Group Chief Executives Fixed Pay is fixed for the duration of the current DRP, his 2017 bonus has reduced from 2016 and he has no LTIP vesting this year.
This contrasts with the outcome for more junior populations where average fixed pay and average bonuses have increased between 2016 and 2017.
Percentage change in roup Chief xecuties reuneration The table below shows how the percentage change in the Group Chief Executives salary, benefits and bonus between 2016 and 2017 compared with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for UK based employees.
ixed Pa enefits Annual bonus Group Chief Executive 0 -63.3 -19.2 a Average based on UK employees 3.3 0.6 1.2 Note a Certain populations were excluded to enable a meaningful like for like comparison.
We have chosen UK based employees as the comparator group as it is the most representative for pay structure comparisons.
Relatie iportance of spend on pa A year on year comparison of Group compensation costs and distributions to shareholders is shown below.
roup copensation costs Diidends to shareholders 02,500 5,000 7,500 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 2017 7,123 2017 509 2016 7,445 2016 757 Total reuneration of the eploees in the arclas roup The table below shows the number of employees in the Barclays Group as at 31 December 2016 and 2017 in bands by reference to total remuneration.
Total remuneration comprises salary, RBP, other allowances, bonus and the value at award of LTIP awards.
Of those employees earning above 1m in total remuneration for 2017 in the table above, 61 are based in the US, 32 in the UK, and 7 in the rest of the world.
The number of employees paid above 1m is down year on year on a constant currency basis 369 in 2017 vs. 383 in 2016. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration Chairman and non-executive Directors Remuneration for non-executive Directors reflects their responsibilities and time commitment and the level of fees paid to non-executive Directors of comparable major UK companies.
Chairman and non-executive Directors: Single total figure for 2017 fees audited Fees Benefits Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman John McFarlane 800 800 2 1 802 801 Non-executive Directors Mike Ashley 215 207 215 207 Tim Breedon 225 220 225 220 a Sir Ian Cheshire 360 360 b Mary Francis 135 29 135 29 Crawford Gillies 195 195 195 195 c Sir Gerry Grimstone 375 250 375 250 Reuben Jeffery III 120 120 120 120 d Matthew Lester 45 45 Dambisa Moyo 135 135 135 135 e Diane fide Saint Victor 38 118 38 118 fg Diane Schueneman 308 232 308 232 fh Steve Thieke 87 221 87 221 i Wendy Lucas-Bull 64 64 j Frits van Paasschen 35 35 Total 3,038 2,626 2 1 3,040 2,627 Non-executive Directors are reimbursed expenses that are incurred for business reasons.
The Chairman is provided with private medical cover and the use of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business purposes.
Notes a Sir Ian Cheshire joined the Board as a non-executive Director and the Barclays UK Board as Chairman with effect from 3 April 2017.
The 2017 figure includes fees of 300,000 for his role on the Barclays UK Board.
b Mary Francis joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 October 2016. c Sir Gerry Grimstone joined the Board as a non-executive Director from 1 January 2016 succeeding Sir Michael Rake as Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman.
He was appointed Chairman of the Barclays International Divisional Board on 1 August 2017.
His Board Deputy Chairman fees were reduced to 150,000 with effect from this appointment.
The 2017 figure includes fees of 167,000 for his role on the Barclays International Divisional Board.
d Matthew Lester joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 September 2017. e Diane fide Saint Victor retired from the Board with effect from 10 May 2017. f Diane Schueneman and Steve Thieke both served in 2016 on the US Governance Review Board and subsequently the board of the US intermediate holding company on its formation.
The 2016 figures include fees of $138,000 and $150,000 respectively for their roles on the US Governance Review Board and the board of the US intermediate holding company.
In 2016, Steve Thieke also waived fees of $63,000.
The 2017 figures include fees of $170,000 and $63,000 respectively for their role on the board of the US intermediate holding company.
In 2017, Steve Thieke also waived fees of $34,000.
g Diane Schuneneman was appointed Chair of the Group Service Company Board on 1 September 2017.
The 2017 figure includes fees of 41,000 for her role on the Group Service Company Board.
h Steve Thieke retired from the Board with effect from 10 May 2017. i Wendy Lucas-Bull retired from the Board with effect from 1 March 2016.
2016 figures include fees received by Wendy Lucas-Bull for her role as Chairman of BAGL.
j Frits van Paasschen retired from the Board with effect from 28 April 2016.
Chairman and non-executive Directors: Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2018 2018 fees, subject to annual review in line with policy, for the Chairman and non-executive Directors are shown below.
1 January 2018 1 January 2017 000 000 a Chairman 800 800 b Deputy Chairman 250 250 c Board member 80 80 Additional responsibilities Senior Independent Director 30 30 Chairman of Board Audit or Board Remuneration Committee 70 70 Chairman of Board Risk Committee 70 70 Chairman of Board Reputation Committee 50 50 Membership of Board Audit or Board Remuneration Committee 30 30 Membership of Board Reputation or Board Risk Committee 25 25 Membership of Board Nominations Committee 15 15 Notes a The Chairman does not receive any other additional responsibility fees in addition to the Chairman fees.
b The Deputy Chairman does not receive any additional fees in respect of being a member or Chairman of Board Committees or for his role as Senior Independent Director.
The current Deputy Chairmans fees have been reduced to 150,000 with effect from his appointment as Chairman of the Barclays International Divisional Board.
c The basic Board member fee payable to non-executive Directors was last increased in May 2011.
112 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Payments to former Directors Former Group Finance Director: Chris Lucas In 2017, Chris Lucas continued to be eligible to receive life assurance cover, private medical cover and payments under the Executive Income Protection Plan EIPP.
Full details of his eligibility under the EIPP were disclosed in the 2013 Directors Remuneration report page 115 of the 2013 Annual Report.
Chris Lucas did not receive any other payment or benefit in 2017.
Directors shareholdings and share interests Executive Directors shareholdings and share interests audited The chart below shows the value of Barclays shares held beneficially by Jes Staley and Tushar Morzaria as at 19 February 2018 that count towards the shareholding requirement of, as a minimum, Barclays shares worth 200% of Total fixed pay i. e. Fixed Pay plus Pension.
The current executive Directors have five years from their respective date of appointment to meet this requirement.
At close of business on 19 February 2018, the market value of Barclays ordinary shares was 2.01.
Jes Staley 000 Tushar Morzaria 000 Requirement 5,492 Requirement 3,700 Actual 9,132 Actual 4,354 Interests in Barclays PLC shares audited The table below shows shares owned beneficially by all the Directors and shares over which executive Directors hold awards which are subject to either deferral terms and or performance measures.
The shares shown below that are subject to performance measures are the maximum number of shares that may be released.
Unvested Total as at 31 December 2017 or date Subject to Not subject to of retirement Total as at performance performance from the Board, 19 February Owned outright measures measures if earlier 2018 Executive Directors Jes Staley 4,543,088 1,685,955 398,406 6,627,449 6,627,449 Tushar Morzaria 2,166,204 3,172,878 492,782 5,831,864 5,831,864 Chairman John McFarlane 72,043 72,043 72,043 Non-executive Directors Mike Ashley 73,517 73,517 73,517 Tim Breedon 37,124 37,124 37,124 a Sir Ian Cheshire 82,851 82,851 82,851 Mary Francis 14,099 14,099 14,099 Crawford Gillies 77,796 77,796 77,796 Sir Gerry Grimstone 110,972 110,972 110,972 Reuben Jeffery III 211,189 211,189 211,189 b Matthew Lester 10,000 10,000 10,000 Dambisa Moyo 59,036 59,036 59,036 c Diane fide Saint Victor 42,823 42,823 Diane Schueneman 27,255 27,255 27,255 d Steve Thieke 59,724 59,724 e Mike Turner Notes a Sir Ian Cheshire joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 3 April 2017. b Matthew Lester joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 September 2017. c Diane fide Saint Victor retired from the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 10 May 2017. d Steve Thieke retired from the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 10 May 2017. e Mike Turner joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 January 2018. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 113 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration Barclays Board Remuneration Committee The Board Remuneration Committee is responsible for overseeing Barclays remuneration as described in more detail below.
Terms of Reference The role of the Committee is to: set the overarching principles and parameters of remuneration policy across the Group consider and approve the remuneration arrangements of i the Chairman, ii the executive Directors, iii members of the Barclays Group Executive Committee and any other senior executives specified by the Committee from time to time, and iv all other Group employees whose total annual compensation exceeds an amount determined by the Committee from time to time currently 2m exercise oversight for remuneration issues.
The Committee considers all aspects of the design and operation of remuneration policy to ensure a coherent approach is taken in respect of all employees.
In discharging this responsibility the Committee seeks to ensure that the policy assesses, among other things, the impact of pay arrangements on culture and all elements of risk management.
The Committee also approves incentive pools for all major businesses and functions, reviews the design and provision of retirement benefits, and considers and approves measures designed to promote the alignment of the interests of shareholders and employees.
The Committee and its members work as necessary with other Board Committees, and is authorised to select and appoint its own advisers as required.
The Terms of Reference can be found at home.
barclays corporategovernance or from the Company Secretary on request.
Chairman and members The Chairman and members of the Committee are as follows: Crawford Gillies, Committee member since 1 May 2014 and Chairman since 24 April 2015 Tim Breedon, Committee member since 1 December 2012 Mary Francis, Committee member since 1 November 2016 Dambisa Moyo, Committee member since 1 September 2015.
All current members are considered independent by the Board.
Remuneration Committee attendance in 2017 Meetings attended eligible to attend Crawford Gillies 7 7 Tim Breedon 7 7 Mary Francis 7 7 Dambisa Moyo 7 7 The performance of the Committee is reviewed each year as part of the Board Effectiveness Review.
The results of the January 2018 review were positive and concluded that the Committee is composed of the right level of experience and skills.
Full details of the Board Effectiveness Review can be found on page 78.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee Between February 2016 and September 2017, the Board Remuneration Committee did not engage an independent adviser.
 PwC was appointed as the independent adviser to the Committee in October 2017.
Prior to the appointment of KPMG as auditors on 31 March 2017 and formally approved at the 2017 AGM in May 2017, PwC was the Group's external auditor.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by PwC to the Committee is independent and objective.
PwC is a signatory to the voluntary UK Code of Conduct for executive remuneration consultants.
Throughout 2017, Willis Towers Watson continued to provide the Committee with market data on compensation when considering incentive levels and remuneration packages.
PwC and Willis Towers Watson were paid 78,000 in aggregate excluding VAT in fees for their advice to the Committee in 2017 relating to the executive Directors either exclusively or along with other employees within the Committees Terms of Reference.
In addition to advising the Committee, PwC provided unrelated consulting advice to the Group in respect of corporate taxation, climate-related financial disclosures, data strategy, technology consulting and internal audit.
In the course of its deliberations, the Committee also considers the views of the Group Chief Executive, the Group Human Resources Director and the Group Reward and Performance Director.
The Group Finance Director and the Chief Risk Officer provide regular updates on Group and business financial performance and risk profile respectively.
No Barclays employee or Director participates in discussions with, or decisions of, the Committee relating to his or her own remuneration.
No other advisers provided services to the Committee in the year.
114 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Remuneration Committee activities in 2017 The following provides a summary of the Committees activities during 2017 and at the January and February 2018 meetings at which 2017 remuneration decisions were finalised.
a Meeting Fixed and variable pay issues Governance, risk and other matters January 2017 2016 incentive funding proposals including risk adjustments 2016 bonus proposals for senior executives Barclays deferral approach February 2017 Approved executive Directors and senior executives 2017 Approved 2016 Remuneration report fixed pay Review of Committee effectiveness Approved 2017 executive Directors annual bonus performance measures Group fixed pay budgets for 2017 Approved final 2016 incentive funding including risk adjustments Approved proposals for executive Directors and senior executives 2016 bonuses and 2017-2019 LTIP awards for executive Directors April 2017 Consideration of whistleblowing event May 2017 Non-executive Directors fees for subsidiary boards July 2017 Incentive funding approach Structural Reform update 2017 ex ante risk adjustment methodology Gender Pay Gap reporting Annual all employee share plans update Non-executive Directors' fees for subsidiary boards October 2017 2017 incentive funding projections including risk adjustments US benefits arrangements Annual review of Group Chairman's remuneration BAGL approach for 2017 pay round December 2017 Initial considerations on executive Directors' and senior Review of Committee activity, Terms of executives 2017 bonuses and 2018 fixed pay and bonus Reference and Control Framework approach 2018 LTIP performance measures 2017 incentive funding proposals including risk adjustments Approved changes to deferral plans January 2018 2017 incentive funding proposals including risk adjustments Non-executive Directors' fees for subsidiary boards 2017 bonus proposals for senior executives February 2018 Approved executive Directors' and senior executives Approved 2017 Remuneration report 2018 fixed pay Review of Committee effectiveness Approved 2018 executive Directors annual bonus performance measures Group fixed pay budgets for 2018 Approved final 2017 incentive funding including risk adjustments Approved proposals for executive Directors and senior executives 2017 bonuses and 2018-2020 LTIP awards for executive Directors Note a The Committee is also provided with updates at each scheduled meeting on: regulatory and stakeholder matters, Finance and Risk, Remuneration Review Panel meetings, operation of the Committees Control Framework on hiring, retention and termination, headcount and employee attrition, and extant LTIP performance.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 115 Governance: Remuneration report Statement of shareholder voting at Annual General Meeting The table below shows the voting result in respect of our remuneration arrangements at the AGM held on 10 May 2017: For Against % of % of votes cast votes cast Withheld Number Number Number Advisory vote on the 2016 Remuneration report 97.22% 2.78% 11,879,285,601 339,664,546 152,439,545 Binding vote on the Directors remuneration policy 97.91% 2.09% 12,062,616,141 257,416,828 51,369,054 At the AGM held on 24 April 2014, shareholders of Barclays PLC voted 96.02% 10,364,453,159 votes for the resolution in respect of a fixed to variable remuneration ratio of 1:2 for Remuneration Code Staff now known as MRTs.
On 14 December 2017, the Board of Barclays PLC as shareholder of Barclays Bank PLC approved the resolution that Barclays Bank PLC and any of its current and future subsidiaries be authorised to apply a ratio of the fixed to variable components of total remuneration that exceeds 1:1, provided the ratio does not exceed 1:2.
116 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Contents The management of risk is a critical underpinning to the execution of Barclays strategy.
The material risks and uncertainties the Group faces across its business and portfolios are key areas of management focus.
Barclays risk disclosures are provided in the Annual Report and in the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017.
Annual Pillar 3 Risk management Report Report Overview of Barclays approach to risk Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF 119 122 Principal Risks 119 122 management.
A detailed overview together Risk Appetite for the Principal Risks 119 122 with more specific information on policies Roles and responsibilities in the management of risk 119 122 that the Group determines to be of particular Frameworks, Policies and Standards n a 125 significance in the current operating Assurance n a 125 environment can be found in Barclays PLC Effectiveness of risk management arrangements n a 125 Pillar 3 Report 2017 or at Barclays.
Learning from our mistakes n a 125 Barclays Risk Culture 120 125 Group-wide risk management tools n a 126 Risk management in the setting of strategy n a 128 Material existing and emerging risks Insight into the level of risk across our Material existing and emerging risks potentially impacting more than one Principal Risk 121 n a business and portfolios, the material existing Credit risk 123 n a and emerging risks and uncertainties we face Market risk 123 n a and the key areas of management focus.
Treasury and capital risk 124 n a Operational risk 124 n a Model risk 125 n a Conduct risk 125 n a Reputation risk 126 n a n a Legal risk and legal, competition and regulatory matters 126 Principal Risk management Barclays approach to risk management for Credit risk management 127 129 Management of credit risk mitigation techniques and counterparty credit risk n a 146 each Principal Risk with focus on Market risk management 129 150 organisation and structure and roles and Management of securitisation exposures n a 158 responsibilities.
Treasury and capital risk management 130 162 Operational risk management 132 170 Model risk management 134 174 Conduct risk management 135 176 Reputation risk management 136 178 Legal risk management 137 180 Risk performance Credit risk: The risk of loss to the firm from Credit risk overview and summary of performance 139 n a Analysis of the balance sheet 139 n a the failure of clients, customers or The Groups maximum exposure and collateral and other credit counterparties, including sovereigns, to fully enhancements held 139 n a honour their obligations to the firm, including The Groups approach to management and representation of credit quality 142 n a the whole and timely payment of principal, Analysis of the concentration of credit risk 144 n a interest, collateral and other receivables.
Loans and advances to customers and banks 147 n a Analysis of specific portfolios and asset types 148 n a Analysis of problem loans 151 n a Impairment 156 n a Analysis of debt securities 157 n a Analysis of derivatives n a 157 Market risk: The risk of a loss arising from Market risk overview and summary of performance 160 93 Balance sheet view of trading and banking books 161 94 potential adverse changes in the value of the Traded Market risk 162 95 firms assets and liabilities from fluctuation in Review of regulatory measures 163 96 market variables including, but not limited to, interest rates, foreign exchange, equity prices, commodity prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities and asset correlations.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 117 Risk review Contents Annual Pillar 3 Risk performance continued Report Report Treasury and capital risk Liquidity: The Liquidity risk overview and summary of performance 166 n a Liquidity risk stress testing 166 n a risk that the firm is unable to meet its Liquidity pool 168 n a contractual or contingent obligations or that Funding structure and funding relationships 169 n a it does not have the appropriate amount, Encumbrance 171 188 tenor and composition of funding and Credit ratings 174 n a liquidity to support its assets.
Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities 175 n a Treasury and capital risk Capital: The risk Capital risk overview and summary of performance 179 n a Regulatory minimum capital and leverage requirements 180 8 that the firm has an insufficient level or Capital resources 181 19 composition of capital to support its normal Risk weighted assets 183 26 business activities and to meet its regulatory Leverage ratios and exposures 184 31 capital requirements under normal operating Foreign exchange risk 185 113 environments or stressed conditions both Pension risk review 186 114 actual and as defined for internal planning or Minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities 34 187 regulatory testing purposes.
This includes the risk from the firms pension plans.
Treasury and capital risk Interest rate risk Interest rate risk in the banking book overview and summary of performance 188 112 in the banking book The risk that the firm is Net interest income sensitivity 189 115 exposed to capital or income volatility Economic capital by business unit 189 116 because of a mismatch between the interest Analysis of equity sensitivity 190 116 rate exposures of its non-traded assets and Volatility of the available for sale portfolio in the liquidity pool 190 117 liabilities.
Operational risk: The risk of loss to the firm Operational risk overview and summary of performance 191 118 Operational risk profile 192 120 from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or due to external events for example fraud where the root cause is not due to credit or market risks.
Model risk: The risk of the potential adverse Model risk overview and summary of performance 193 n a consequences from financial assessments or decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports.
Conduct risk: The risk of detriment to Conduct risk overview and summary of performance 194 n a customers, clients, market integrity, competition or Barclays from the inappropriate supply of financial services, including instances of wilful or negligent misconduct.
Reputation risk: The risk that an action, Reputation risk overview and summary of performance 195 n a transaction, investment or event will reduce trust in the firms integrity and competence by clients, counterparties, investors, regulators, employees or the public.
Legal risk: The risk of loss or imposition of Legal risk overview and summary of performance 196 n a penalties, damages or fines from the failure of the firm to meet its legal obligations including regulatory or contractual requirements.
Supervision and regulation: The Groups Supervision of the Group 197 n a Global regulatory developments 198 n a operations, including its overseas offices, Financial regulatory framework 199 n a subsidiaries and associates, are subject to a Structural reform 204 n a significant body of rules and regulations.
Pillar 3 Report Contains extensive information on risk as well Summary of risk profile n a 3 Notes on basis of preparation n a 5 as capital management.
Scope of application of Basel rules n a 6 Risk and capital position review: Provides a Group capital resources, requirements, leverage and liquidity n a 17 Analysis of credit risk n a 36 detailed breakdown of Barclays regulatory Analysis of counterparty credit risk n a 78 capital adequacy and how this relates to Analysis of market risk n a 93 Barclays risk management.
Analysis of securitisation exposures n a 99 Analysis of treasury and capital risk n a 112 Analysis of operational risk n a 118 118 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Risk management Barclays risk management strategy operating within any and all limits which the Introduction Risk appetite for the Risk and Compliance functions establish in Principal Risks Barclays engages in activities which entail risk connection with the Risk Appetite of the taking, every day, throughout its business.
Group Risk Appetite is defined as the level of risk This section introduces these risks, and which the Group is prepared to accept in the escalating risk events to senior managers in outlines key governance arrangements for conduct of its activities.
The Risk Appetite of Risk and Compliance.
These include roles and the Group specifies the level of risk we are responsibilities, frameworks, policies and willing to take and why, to enable specific risk Second Line of Defence standards, assurance and lessons learned taking activities.
Employees of Risk and Compliance comprise processes.
The Groups approach to fostering the Second Line of Defence.
The role of the Risk Appetite is approved and disseminated a strong Risk Culture is also described.
Second Line is to establish the limits, rules and across legal entities and businesses, including constraints under which First Line activities by use of Mandate and Scale limits to enable Enterprise Risk Management shall be performed, consistent with the Risk and control specific activities that have appetite of the Group, and to monitor the material concentration risk implications for Framework ERMF performance of the First Line against these the Group.
The ERMF sets the strategic direction for risk limits and constraints.
management by defining standards, objectives Roles and responsibilities in the and responsibilities for all areas of Barclays.
It Third Line of Defence supports the Chief Executive Officer CEO Employees of Internal Audit comprise the management of risk and Group Chief Risk Officer CRO in Third Line of Defence.
They provide The Three Lines of Defence embedding effective risk management and a independent assurance to the Board and All colleagues are responsible for strong Risk Culture.
Executive Management over the effectiveness understanding and managing risks within the of governance, risk management and control The ERMF sets out: context of their individual roles and over current, systemic and evolving risks.
responsibilities, as set out in the Three Lines Principal Risks faced by the Group The Legal function does not sit in any of the of Defence.
Risk Appetite requirements three lines, but supports them all.
The Legal Roles and responsibilities for risk function is, however, subject to oversight from First Line of Defence management Risk and Compliance, with respect to The First Line comprises all employees Risk Committee structure.
engaged in the revenue generating and client facing areas of the Group and all associated Risk Committees support functions, including Finance, Principal Risks Business Risk Committees consider Risk Treasury, Human Resources and the Chief The ERMF identifies eight Principal Risks see matters relevant to their business, and Operating Officer COO function.
Employees table below and sets out associated escalate as required to the Group Risk in the First Line are responsible for: responsibilities and risk management Committee GRC, whose Chairman in turn identifying all the risks and developing standards.
escalates to Board Committees and the Board.
appropriate policies, standards and controls to govern their activities There are three Board-level forums which oversee the application of the ERMF and review and monitor risk across the Group.
These are: the Board Risk Committee, the Board Audit Committee, and the Board Reputation Committee.
Additionally, the Board Financial Principal Risks Non-Financial Principal Risks Remuneration Committee oversees pay practices focusing on aligning pay to sustainable performance.
Finally, the main Credit risk: The risk of loss to the firm from the Operational risk: The risk of loss to the firm Board of Barclays receives regular information failure of clients, customers or counterparties, from inadequate or failed processes or systems, on the risk profile of the Group, and has including sovereigns, to fully honour their human factors or due to external events obligations to the firm, including the whole and for example fraud where the root cause is ultimate responsibility for risk appetite and timely payment of principal, interest, collateral not due to credit or market risks.
Model risk: The risk of the potential adverse The Chairman of each Committee prepares a Market risk: The risk of loss arising from potential consequences from financial assessments or statement each year on the Committees adverse changes in the value of the firms assets decisions based on incorrect or misused model and liabilities from fluctuation in market variables outputs and reports.
activities, which are included in this report on including, but not limited to, interest rates, foreign Conduct risk: The risk of detriment to customers, pages 45 to 79. exchange, equity prices, commodity prices, credit clients, market integrity, competition or Barclays from spreads, implied volatilities and asset correlations.
the inappropriate supply of financial services, The Board Treasury and capital risk: including instances of wilful or negligent misconduct.
One of the Boards Board of Directors of Liquidity risk: The risk that the firm is unable Reputation risk: The risk that an action, transaction, Barclays Bank PLC responsibilities is the to meet its contractual or contingent obligations investment or event will reduce trust in the firms approval of Risk Appetite see page 126 of the or that it does not have the appropriate amount, integrity and competence by clients, counterparties, tenor and composition of funding and liquidity investors, regulators, employees or the public.
The Group to support its assets.
CRO regularly presents a report to the Board Legal risk: The risk of loss or imposition of Capital risk: The risk that the firm has an penalties, damages or fines from the failure of summarising developments in the risk insufficient level or composition of capital to the firm to meet its legal obligations including environment and performance trends in the support its normal business activities and to meet regulatory or contractual requirements.
The Board is also responsible its regulatory capital requirements under normal operating environments or stressed conditions for the ERMF.
both actual and as defined for internal planning or regulatory testing purposes.
Interest rate risk in the banking book: The risk that the firm is exposed to capital or income volatility because of a mismatch between the interest rate exposures of its non-traded assets and liabilities.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 119 Risk review Risk management Barclays risk management strategy Board Committees Board Board Risk Board Audit Board Reputation Board Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Management Level Group ExCo Group Risk Committee Remuneration Committees Forums Review Panel Business Level Business Risk Committees Committees Forums The Board Risk Committee BRC The Board Remuneration Committee Induction programmes support new The BRC monitors the Groups risk profile RemCo colleagues in understanding how risk against the agreed financial appetite.
Where The RemCo receives a detailed report on risk management culture and practices support management performance and risk profile, actual performance differs from expectations, how the Group does business and the link to the actions taken by management are and proposals on ex-ante and ex-post risk Barclays values.
The Leadership Curriculum adjustments to variable remuneration.
These reviewed to verify that the BRC is comfortable covers the building, sustaining and supporting with them.
After each meeting, the Chairman inputs are considered in the setting of of a trustworthy organisation and is offered to performance incentives.
of the BRC prepares a report for the next colleagues globally.
All members are Summaries of the relevant skills, experience independent non-executive directors.
The Other Risk Culture drivers and background of the Directors of the Board Group Finance Director GFD and the Group In addition to values and conduct, we consider are presented in the Board of Directors section CRO attend each meeting as a matter of the following determinants of Risk Culture: on pages 47 to 48.
The terms of reference and course.
Management and governance: This means additional details on membership and a consistent tone from the top and clear The BRC also considers the Groups Risk activities for each of the principal Board responsibilities to enable identification and Appetite statement for operational risk and Committees are available from the Corporate challenge.
evaluates the Groups operational risk profile Governance section of Barclays website at: and operational risk monitoring.
barclays about-barclays barclaysMotivation and incentives: The right corporate-governance.
html behaviours are rewarded and modelled.
The BRC receives regular and comprehensive Competence and effectiveness: This reports on risk methodologies, the means that colleagues are enabled to Barclays Risk Culture effectiveness of the risk management identify, co-ordinate, escalate and address framework, and the Groups risk profile, Risk Culture can be defined as norms, risk and control matters.
including the key issues affecting each attitudes and behaviours related to risk Integrity: Colleagues are willing to meet business portfolio and forward risk trends.
The awareness, risk taking and risk management.
their risk management responsibilities: Committee also commissions in-depth At Barclays this is reflected in how we identify, colleagues escalate issues on a timely basis.
analyses of significant risk topics, which are escalate and manage risk matters.
presented by the Group CRO or senior risk managers in the businesses.
Our Code of Conduct the Barclays Way Globally, all colleagues must attest to the The Board Audit Committee BAC Barclays Way, our Code of Conduct, and all The BAC receives regular reports on the frameworks, policies and standards applicable effectiveness of internal control systems, to their roles.
The Code of Conduct outlines quarterly reports on material control issues of the Purpose and Values which govern our significance, and quarterly papers on Barclays Way of working across our business accounting judgements including globally.
It constitutes a reference point impairment.
It also receives a half-yearly covering all aspects of colleagues working review of the adequacy of impairment relationships, specifically but not exclusively allowances, which it reviews relative to the with other Barclays employees, customers and risk inherent in the portfolios, the business clients, governments and regulators, business environment, the Groups policies and partners, suppliers, competitors and the methodologies.
The Chairman of the BAC also broader community.
Embedding of a values-based, conduct The Board Reputation Committee RepCo culture The RepCo reviews managements The Group Executive Committee reconfirmed recommendations on conduct and reputation Conduct, Culture and Values as one of its risk and the effectiveness of the processes by execution priorities for 2017 with the aim of which the Group identifies and manages these embedding the cultural measurement tool risks.
It also reviews and monitors the developed in 2016.
The effectiveness of the effectiveness of Barclays citizenship strategy, Risk and Control environment, for which all including the management of Barclays colleagues are responsible, depends on the economic, social and environmental continued embedment of strong values.
Please see the Board Reputation Committee report on pages 69 to 74 for further details.
120 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
