Strategic Report Remuneration Our remuneration policy supports the achievement of our strategic objectives by balancing reward for shortand long-term sustainable performance.
Remuneration principles The remuneration strategy for our employees is based on a series of key principles.
What we do What we dont do Focus on total compensation Reward inappropriate or excessive with a strong link between pay risk taking or short-term performance and performance at the expense of long-term company sustainability Judge not only what is achieved, but also how it is achieved, in line with the Use only a formulaic approach to HSBC Values determine bonuses for our executives Operate a thorough performance Award discretionary bonuses to management and HSBC Values employees rated unacceptable against assessment process the HSBC Values and behaviours Recognise and reward our employees Allow our employees to hedge against for outstanding positive behaviour their unvested or retained awards Design our policy to align compensation Offer employment contracts with a with long-term stakeholder interests notice period of more than 12 months Apply consequence management Have pre-arranged individual severance to strengthen the alignment between agreements risk and reward Embedding our values in our remuneration framework Instilling the right behaviours, and Pay Outcomes driving and encouraging actions that Positive Individuals who exhibit exceptional conduct and behaviours which go are aligned to organisational values adjustments beyond the normal course of an employees responsibilities, and set an and expectations, are essential.
outstanding example of our Values-aligned behaviours and conduct We therefore have a number of expectations, are awarded positive variable pay adjustments during programmes to reinforce our values.
Global This provides a set of guidelines designed to align the handling of consequence employee conduct breaches, and support line managers in delivering management greater consistency of outcomes and messages.
policy Ensures clear messaging to employees on the impact of any inappropriate conduct as part of reward communications.
Global recognition Introduced from July 2015 as the Groups global peer-to-peer programme recognition programme, designed to incentivise compliance by allowing colleagues to recognise and reward positive behaviours.
Includes communication of positive stories on our intranet HSBC Now.
Performance Employees set objectives, which connect business, team and individual management goals, and are guided by expected behaviours aligned to our core values.
All employees receive a behaviour rating based on their adherence to HSBC Values to ensure performance is judged not only on what is achieved, but also on how it is achieved.
Employees and managers are encouraged to hold frequent conversations throughout the year, exploring alternative ways to stay connected outside the regular performance management cycle using a mix of informal and formal check-ins on a range of topics, including performance, development and well-being.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 30 Remuneration How we set our variable pay pool When deciding on the variable pay pool, the Remuneration Committee Our variable pay pool is $3,303m, an increase considers a number of factors, which are set out in the following table: of 8.8% compared with 2016.
Performance and Our variable pay pool takes into account our performance Variable pay pool risk appetite in the context of our risk appetite.
$m statement 2017 Group 3,303 Countercyclical To dampen effects of economic cycles, the variable pay 2016 3,035 funding pools size has a floor and a ceiling, and we also limit the Of which Global 2017 1,063 methodology payout ratio as performance increases to prevent the risk Banking and Markets 2016 954 of inappropriate behaviour.
Distribution of Our funding methodology ensures that the distribution of Variable pay for our executive Directors profits post-tax profit between capital, shareholders and variable Variable pay for our executive Directors is driven pay is appropriate, and that the majority of post-tax profit by scorecard achievement.
Targets in the scorecard is allocated to capital and shareholders.
are set according to our key performance Commerciality We face challenges arising from being headquartered in indicators to ensure linkages between our and affordability the UK, which has more stringent reward practices.
We strategy and remuneration policies and outcome.
take into account these challenges in determining the size See the Directors Remuneration Report on page 146 for of the variable pay pool to ensure we can continue to further details.
attract and retain talent in key markets.
Remuneration for our executive Directors Our remuneration policy for executive Directors was approved in The table below shows the amount our executive our 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM and is intended to apply for Directors earned in 2017. three performance years until the AGM in 2019.
Full details of our For details of Directors pay and performance for 2017, remuneration policy can be found online in our Directors Remuneration see the Directors Remuneration Report on page 141.
Vesting of the first LTI award will be included in the single figure table for the financial year ending on 31 December 2019.
2 Douglas Flint stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2017 and his remuneration reflects time served as an executive Director.
Details on retirement arrangements are provided on page 151.
3 To meet regulatory deferral requirements for 2017, 60% of the annual incentive award of Stuart Gulliver has been deferred in shares and will vest in five equal instalments between the third and seventh anniversary of the grant date.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
