Over the past five years, we significantly strengthened our ability Directors Remuneration Report to combat financial crime through our Global Standards programme and the five-year deferred prosecution agreement Page 'AML DPA' with, among others, the US Department of Justice Annual Statement from the Group Remuneration 'DoJ', has expired.
141 CommitteeChair In January 2018, HSBC Holdings entered into a three-year deferred Directors remuneration policy 143 prosecution agreement with the DoJ FX DPA, regarding Annual report on remuneration 144 fraudulent conduct in connection with two particular transactions Additional remuneration disclosures 156 in 2010 and 2011.
This concluded the DoJs investigation into Pillar 3 remuneration disclosures 158 HSBCs historical foreign exchange activities.
Under the terms of All disclosures in the Directors Remuneration Report are the FX DPA, HSBC has a number of ongoing obligations, including unaudited unless otherwise stated.
continuing to cooperate with authorities and implementing enhancements to its internal controls and procedures in its Global Disclosures marked as audited should be considered audited Markets business which will be the subject of annual reports to inthe context of financial statements taken as a whole.
In addition, HSBC agreed to pay a financial penalty and restitution.
Annual Statement from the Group This agreement acts as a reminder of the necessity of pursuing the Remuneration Committee Chair highest standards of conduct in our business.
Dear Shareholder, Group variable pay pool and risk adjustments I am delighted to present our 2017 Directors Remuneration The Committees decision on the Group variable pay pool took into Report.
I have been a member of the Committee since 1 January consideration our performance against metrics set out in the 2016 and took over the role of Chair from 28 April 2017.
Group risk appetite statement and an assessment against our 2017 was the second year under our current remuneration policy, global conduct outcomes for our global businesses.
The and I was pleased to note that at the last Annual General Meeting Committee also took into consideration the Groups financial performance, and fines, penalties and customer redress costs.
AGM we received strong support for how the policy was implemented, with over 96% of shareholders voting in favour of The total variable pay pool for 2017 was $3,303m, representing a the 2016 remuneration report.
8.8% increase on the 2016 variable pay pool.
I have set out below a summary of our 2017 performance, key In setting the pool, the Committee used its discretion to apply the decisions made during the year and the areas of focus envisaged following reductions: for 2018.
$84m for the fines, penalties and cost of customer redress Performance achieved during 2017 faced by the Group: and During 2017, the Group made good financial and strategic $383m for: progress.
The Group 2017 reported profit before tax was $17.2bn, financial performance based on certain metrics, in particular, up 141% from $7.1bn in 2016.
On an adjusted basis, profit before return on equity: tax was $21.0bn, up 11% from $18.9bn in 2016. performance against certain metrics in our Group risk 2017 was the final year to implement the Group's planned appetite profile: and strategic actions and to achieve the targets we had set out to our investors in 2015.
The scorecards of our executive Directors continued work required to address financial crime incorporated measures that were aligned to the delivery of these compliance issues.
The Committee also strongly believes that individual performance We exceeded our risk-weighted assets RWA reduction target, should be judged not only on what is achieved over the period but extracting a total of $338bn of RWA's from the business since the more importantly on how it is achieved, as we believe the latter start of 2015, in excess of the $290bn target we had set out in our contributes to the long-term sustainability of the business.
We achieved annualised run-rate savings of further reinforce this in our culture, we continue our workstream $6.1bn and delivered positive adjusted jaws for 2017. on incentivising compliance through: We missed our targets for NAFTA profitability and RMB the use of behaviour and performance ratings for all employees, internationalisation although we made good progress on actions which directly influence pay outcomes: to deploy capital and deliver revenue growth.
The set-up of the UK variable pay adjustments: ring-fenced bank is nearly complete, with 91% of head office roles positive adjustments to variable pay outcomes for resourced, and we expect to have a fully functioning team by the individuals who have exhibited positive behaviour and end of the first quarter of 2018.
Details of performance against consistent adherence to the HSBC Values and go the extra each of the strategic actions is set out on page 13 of the Strategic mile to courageously do the right thing.
made positive adjustments totalling $14.9m of variable pay In December we launched HSBC Qianhai Securities, the first awards: and securities joint venture in mainland China to be majority-owned by we reduced variable pay awards to certain individuals by an international bank.
We will be offering a range of services to $2.9m in aggregate to reflect individual conduct and our customers, including equity research and brokerage, equity behaviours: and and debt underwriting and cross-border M&A advisory, and emphasising our commitment in pivoting our business to Asia.
the global recognition programme where our employees can recognise peers and reward positive behaviours in a real-time, The Group announced a dividend of $0.51 per ordinary share and visible way.
in 2017, we returned a total of $3bn to shareholders through share buy-backs.
A total shareholder return of 24% was achieved in Fixed pay for executive Directors 2017, which outperformed the FTSE 100 index over the year.
We No fixed pay increases were made in 2017 for executive Directors remain a well-funded business with a strong capital generation and no increase in fixed pay is proposed for executive Directors for and a diversified balance sheet.
We received the Worlds Best 2018.
Across the UK employee population the average base salary Bank award at the Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2017 in July, increase in 2017 was 5%.
showcasing our devotion to customers and our strong market position.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 141 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Executive Directors 2017 variable pay awards Employee remuneration policy The 2017 annual incentive scorecard outcome was 80.0% for Our wider employee remuneration policy is driven by the Group Stuart Gulliver, 89.5% for Iain Mackay and 91.2% for Marc Moses, reward strategy, which has evolved over time to reflect changes in reflecting the performance achieved against their individual our operating environment, including ongoing regulatory and scorecards.
Details of the annual incentive scorecard outcome are governance changes.
The Committee reviewed and agreed provided on page 146. updates to the Group reward strategy during 2017 to ensure that it continues to support HSBCs overall employment proposition to Iain Mackay and Marc Moses will be awarded a long-term attract, retain and motivate the best people, who are aligned to incentive award LTI in respect of 2017 performance.
In granting HSBCs values and committed to maintaining a long-term career these awards, the Committee took into consideration the within the Group.
performance achieved for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 and the achievements against the strategic actions Our 2017 employee survey feedback indicated that employees announced in June 2015.
These awards will also be subject to a needed more support in understanding the objectives of the three-year forward-looking performance period ending on different components of total compensation.
To address this, the 31 December 2020.
Details of the performance measures are set Committee reviewed and supported managements proposals to out on page 151.
At the end of the three-year performance period, streamline the parameters and principles which managers are subject to the outcome of the performance conditions, awards will asked to consider and apply when making fixed and variable pay vest in five equal annual instalments commencing from the third recommendations, with a view to ensuring employees have more anniversary of the award date.
This gives a total deferral period of visibility and clarity on the factors that influence their total seven years and links a significant portion of our executive remuneration.
Details of the Group's remuneration policy for all Directors pay to the achievement of long-term objectives, and the employees are set out on page 158. long-term interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
Gender pay Following Stuart Gullivers announcement of his retirement, the Gender pay is an area of focus in the UK with the introduction of Committee considered that it would not be appropriate for him to the Gender Pay Gap Reporting regulations.
We will be complying receive a LTI award for 2017.
To meet regulatory deferral with those regulations and reporting accordingly.
requirements for 2017, 60% of his 2017 annual incentive award will be deferred over a period of seven years, vesting in five equal Our global pay strategy is designed to attract and motivate the annual tranches commencing from the third anniversary of the very best people regardless of any factor unrelated to their grant date.
In accordance with regulatory requirements, the post-vesting Pay recommendations consider internal and external market retention period for all shares awarded to executive Directors has comparisons and reflect the employees performance during the been increased from six months to one year.
Recommendations are reviewed during a robust annual process, involving business and function heads, senior Director changes and implementation of policy management and Human Resources.
for 2018 Review of our policy Mark Tucker joined the Board on 1 September 2017 as a nonThe Group's remuneration policy is due to expire at the 2019 AGM.
executive Director and Group Chairman designate, and succeeded During the course of this year, we will be reviewing our current Douglas Flint as Group Chairman with effect from 1 October 2017. approach to Directors' remuneration and will consult with our He will receive a fee of 1,500,000 per annum in respect of his large shareholders and proxy advisory bodies with the aim of chairmanship and was paid a one-time relocation benefit of introducing a policy in 2019.
In line with our remuneration policy, Douglas Flint was paid his Our annual report on remuneration salary and pension allowance and received contractual benefits in The next section provides an overview of our remuneration policy respect of his contractual notice period.
Full details are provided for executive Directors, which was approved by shareholders at on page 151. the 2016 AGM.
In the annual report section, we provide details of Stuart Gulliver will step down as executive Director and Group remuneration decisions made for executive Directors in 2017.
In Chief Executive on 20 February 2018 and John Flint will succeed the additional remuneration disclosure section of this report, we Stuart Gulliver as Group Chief Executive from 21 February 2018. provide additional remuneration-related disclosures, including an Stuart Gulliver will remain as an employee until 11 October 2018, overview of the policy that applies to our employees.
working on key strategic projects and supporting the smooth As Chair of the Committee, I hope you will support the report.
transition of the Group Chief Executive role to John Flint.
Up until retirement, Stuart Gulliver will continue to receive his current fixed pay and benefits.
In accordance with the terms of our remuneration policy, the Committee has agreed that Stuart Gulliver will remain eligible to be considered for an annual incentive award for the period up to 11 October 2018, based on Pauline van der Meer Mohr his contribution during 2018.
Further details on Stuart Gullivers Chair annual incentive opportunity and performance measures for 2018 can be found on page 156.
Group Remuneration Committee John Flints salary as Group Chief Executive is set at 1,200,000 20 February 2018 and will be reviewed on an annual basis.
He will also receive a fixed pay allowance of 1,700,000 per annum and a cash in lieu of pension at 30% of salary, consistent with the approved policy.
His maximum annual incentive and LTI opportunity will be set at 215% and 320% of salary, respectively, as per our approved policy.
142 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 years until the AGM in 2019.
The full remuneration policy can be Directors remuneration policy found on pages 288 to 299 of our Annual Report and Accounts 2015 and in the Directors Remuneration Policy Supplement, which The tables below summarise our remuneration policy for executive is available under group results and reporting in the Investor and non-executive Directors.
The policy was approved at the AGM Relations section of www.
on 22 April 2016 and is intended to apply for three performance Remuneration policy summary executive Directors 1 Elements Operation Implementation in 2018 Base salary Paid in cash on a monthly basis.
To attract and retain key talent by being Base salary increases will not exceed 15% in total during the Stuart Gulliver: 1,250,000 market competitive and rewarding three-year term of the policy.
John Flint: 1,200,000 ongoing contribution to role.
Iain Mackay: 700,000 Marc Moses: 700,000 Fixed pay allowance Non-pensionable and paid in shares.
To deliver fixed pay required to reflect Released annually on a pro-rata basis over five years, starting Stuart Gulliver: 1,700,000 the role, skills and experience of the from March following the end of the financial year in which the John Flint: 1,700,000 Directors and to maintain a competitive shares were granted.
Iain Mackay: 950,000 total remuneration package for Dividends paid on the vested shares held during the retention Marc Moses: 950,000 retention of key talent.
Pension Directors receive cash in lieu of a pension equal to 30% of base No change from 2017. salary.
To attract and retain key talent by being market competitive.
Benefits Include, for example, medical insurance, income protection No change from 2017. insurance, health assessment, life assurance, club membership, To provide benefits in accordance with tax return assistance, car benefit and travel assistance, including local market practice.
any tax due on the benefit.
Additional benefits may also be provided where an executive Director is relocated or spends a substantial proportion of their time in more than one jurisdiction for business purposes.
Annual incentive Maximum opportunity for annual incentive award is 215% of base See page 156 for details of performance measures.
To drive and reward performance Shares issued are subject to a retention against annual financial and nonPerformance is measured against an annual scorecard, which period of one year after vesting in financial objectives which are varies by individual.
accordance with new regulatory consistent with the strategy and align requirements.
On vesting, shares are subject to a retention period of at least six to shareholder interests.
Number of shares to be awarded can be determined taking into consideration a share price discounted for expected dividend yield.
Long-term incentive LTI Maximum opportunity for LTI award is 320% of base salary.
Details of the performance measures and targets for awards to be made in To incentivise sustainable long-term Award is subject to a three-year forward-looking performance 2018 in respect of 2017 are set out on alignment with shareholder interests.
Performance is measured against a long-term scorecard.
60% is For awards to be made in respect of based on financial outcomes and 40% is based on non-financial 2018, the measures and targets will be outcomes, including risk and strategy-related measures.
determined at the end of 2018 for the Awards vest in five equal instalments with the first vesting on or performance period commencing on around the third anniversary of the grant date, and the last vesting 1 January 2019. on or around the seventh anniversary of the grant date.
On vesting, awards are subject to a On vesting, shares are subject to a retention period of at least six retention period of one year in months.
accordance with new regulatory Awards are discretionary and subject to malus during the vesting requirements.
period and clawback for a period of seven to 10 years from the Awards are not entitled to dividend date of award.
equivalents during the performance and Number of shares to be awarded can be determined taking into deferral period in accordance with new consideration a share price discounted for expected dividend regulatory requirements.
Shareholding guideline The shareholding guidelines as a percentage of base salary are: No change from 2017.
To ensure appropriate alignment with Group Chief Executive: 400% the interest of our shareholders.
Group Finance Director and Group Chief Risk Officer: 300% 1 John Flint will succeed Stuart Gulliver as executive Director and Group Chief Executive with effect from 21 February 2018.
Stuart Gulliver will step down as executive Director and Group Chief Executive on 20 February 2018.
Executive Directors are also entitled to participate in all employee share plans, such as HSBC Sharesave, on the same basis as all other employees.
The policy on payment for loss of office is detailed online in the Directors Remuneration Policy Supplement.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 143 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Expenses incurred in performing their roles and any related tax Remuneration policy summary non-executive due are also reimbursed.
Directors All non-executive Directors have a shareholding guideline of Non-executive Directors are not employees and receive a fee for 15,000 shares, which has to be achieved by 2019 or within five their services, as follows: years of their appointment if later.
base fee: and A travel allowance of 4,000 is provided to non-UK based nonfurther fees for the role of Senior Independent Director SID executive Directors to reflect the additional time commitment and additional Board duties such as chairmanship or required for travel.
2018 fees Category 1 Non-executive Group Chairman 1,500,000 Base fee 110,000 SID 54,000 Audit, Risk, Remuneration, Financial System Vulnerabilities andConduct & Values Committees Chairman 60,000 Member 30,000 Nomination Committee Chairman 40,000 Member 25,000 Philanthropic & Community Investment Oversight Committee Chairman 25,000 Member 15,000 1 Group Chairman does not receive a base fee or any other fees in respect of chairmanship of any other committee.
The Committee has exercised its discretion to provide Mark Tucker with life assurance and healthcare insurance with effect from 1 February 2018, taking into consideration that he is performing the role with a time commitment of not less than four days per week, and holds no other offices outside of HSBC Holdings plc.
Committee will seek to minimise termination payments.
Directors Service contracts may be eligible for a payment in relation tostatutory rights.
Executive Directors The Directors biographies are set out on pages 122 to 125, and include those directorships provided for under Capital Stuart Marc Douglas John Iain 1 Requirement Directive IV CRD IV.
Flint Flint Mackay Gulliver Moses Non-executive Directors Contract date 14 Feb 10 Feb 4 Feb 27 Nov 21 Feb rolling 2011 2018 2011 2014 2011 Non-executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms not Notice period exceeding three years, which may be renewed subject to their reDirector & election by shareholders at AGMs.
Non-executive Directors do not HSBC 12 months 12 months 12 months 12 months 12 months have service contracts, but are bound by letters of appointment 1 Douglas Flint stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2017. issued for and on behalf of HSBC Holdings.
There are no obligations in the non-executive Directors' letters of appointment Letters setting out the terms of appointment of each executive that could give rise to remuneration payments or payments for Director are available for inspection at HSBC Holdings registered loss of office.
Consistent with the best interests of the Group, the Non-executive Directors current terms of appointment will expire as follows: 2018 AGM 2019 AGM 2020 AGM 2021 AGM Phillip Ameen Henri fide Castries Kathleen Casey Mark Tucker Joachim Faber Irene Lee Laura Cha John Lipsky Pauline van der Meer Mohr David Nish Heidi Miller Jonathan Symonds Jackson Tai Lord Evans of Weardale Activities Annual report on remuneration The Committee met seven times during 2017.
The following is a summary of the Committees key activities during 2017.
A copy of Remuneration Committee the Committees terms of reference can be found on our website Details of the roles, responsibilities and membership of the at www.
com about-hsbc corporate-governance boardCommittee are set out on page 132.
During 2017, members of the committees.
Committee included Pauline van der Meer Mohr Chair from 28 April 2017, Henri fide Castries appointed on 26 May 2017, John Lipsky, David Nish appointed on 26 May 2017, Sam Laidlaw Chairman and member until 28 April 2017 and Paul Walsh until 21 April 2017.
144 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Details of the Committees key activities Executive Directors All employees Approved Directors' Remuneration Report and Strategic Report.
Approved 2016 2017 performance year pay review matters and highpriority programmes progress.
Considered executive Director remuneration policy matters for shareholder consultation.
Consulted with key shareholders and proxy advisory bodies on executive Considered progress update on Monitor recommendations.
Received updates on notable events and regulatory and corporate Reviewed and approved executive Director remuneration matters.
Reviewed and approved executive Directors scorecards and pay Reviewed and approved 2017 Material Risk Taker 'MRT' identification proposals.
Advisers Iain Mackay, Group Finance Director: Marc Moses, Group Chief Risk Officer: The Committee received input and advice from different advisers on specific topics during 2017.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte was Stuart Levey, Chief Legal Officer: appointed by the Committee in 2015 as an objective, independent John Flint, Chief Executive, Retail Banking and Wealth adviser to support the Committee on specific remuneration Management: matters for executive Directors.
The Committee made the appointment in 2015 after considering invited proposals from a Elaine Arden, Group Head of Human Resources from number of consultancy firms.
In 2017, the Committee agreed to June2017 : extend Deloittes appointment for a further period of one year.
Donna Wong, Acting Group Head of Human Resources until Deloitte provided benchmarking data on remuneration policy May 2017 : matters and independent advice to the Committee.
The Committee may request ad-hoc assistance from Deloitte.
Alexander Lowen, Group Head of Performance and Reward: Deloitte also provided tax compliance and other advisory services Colin Bell, Group Head of Financial Crime Risk: to the Group.
To ensure the advice from Deloitte was objective, the Ralph Nash, Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance and Committee required the advice to be independent and distinct Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer: from any internal review and analysis on remuneration policy Andy Maguire, Group Chief Operating Officer: and matters.
The Committee was satisfied the advice provided by Deloitte was objective and independent in 2017.
Deloitte is a Ben Mathews, Group Company Secretary.
founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group, and The Committee also received feedback and input from the Group voluntarily operates underthe Code of Conduct in relation to Risk Committee, the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
and the Conduct & Values Committee on risk, conduct and For 2017, total fees of 109,350 were incurred in relation to compliance-related matters relevant to remuneration.
This remuneration advice provided by Deloitte.
This was based on preincluded input from the Financial System Vulnerabilities agreed fees and a time-and-materials basis.
Committee in relation to progress on enhancing the anti-money laundering AML and sanctions compliance programmes, forthe During the year, the Group Chief Executive provided regular purposes of the Committees determination on any adjustments to briefings to the Committee.
No executive Directors areinvolved in be made under the downward override policy.
In addition, the Committee engaged with and received updates from the following employees: Single figure of remuneration Audited The following table shows the single figure total remuneration of each executive Director for 2017, together with comparative figures for 2016.
Vesting of the first LTIaward will be included in the single figure table for the financial year ending on 31 December 2019.
2 Douglas Flint stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2017 and his remuneration reflects time served as an executive Director.
Details on retirement arrangements are provided on page 151.
3 To meet regulatory deferral requirements for 2017, 60% of the annual incentive award of Stuart Gulliver has been deferred in shares and will vest in five equal instalments between the third and seventh anniversary of the grant date.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 145 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Illustration of release profile The following chart provides an illustrative release profile for executive Directors.
Illustration of release profile 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 Released in five equal annual Fixed pay instalments starting from allowance March2018.
Paid in immediately vested Perform shares subject to a retentionance period of one year.
period Subject to clawback Annual provisions for seven years incentive from grant, which may be extended to 10 years in the 1 Malus Clawback provisions event of an ongoing internal 1 regulatory investigation.
Award subject to a three-year forward-looking performance Performance Vesting period period.
period Subject to performance outcome, awards will vest in Long-term five equal annual instalments incentive starting from the third anniversary of the grant date.
Retention period On vesting, shares are subject to a retention period of one year.
1 Applies to both annual incentive and long-term incentive.
Notes to the single figure of remuneration car, club membership, including any tax gross-up: and nontaxable benefits including the provision of life assurance and Audited other insurance coverage.
Benefits The values of the significant benefits in the single figure table are In the single figure of remuneration table, benefits set out in the following table.
refers to: all taxable benefits gross value before payment of tax including provision of medical insurance, accommodation and Audited Tax expense on car benefit and Hong Kong bank-owned Insurance benefit Car benefit Hong Kong bank-owned 1 2 1 UK and Hong Kong accommodation accommodation non-taxable 000 000 000 000 2017 56 Douglas Flint 2016 75 2017 282 164 63 Stuart Gulliver 2016 64 263 211 63 1 The car benefit, tax on car benefit and insurance benefits for Iain Mackay and Marc Moses are not included in the above table as they were not significant.
2 Taxable value determined based on the current market rental value of the bank-owned property in Hong Kong, as estimated by an external lease service provider, plus utility costs, rates, the taxable value of furniture and taking into account the business use of the property.
Notional returns Determining executive Directors annual performance In the single figure of remuneration table above, notional returns refers to the notional return on deferred cash for awards made Audited prior to 2017.
Executive Directors awards reflected the Committees assessment The deferred cash portion of the annual incentive granted prior to of their performance against the personal and corporate objectives 2017 includes aright to receive notional returns for the period in their scorecards, which were agreed at the start of the year and between grant date and vesting date, which is determined by reflect the Groups strategic priorities and risk appetite.
In reference to the dividend yield on HSBC shares, calculated accordance with the downward override policy, the Committee annually.
also consulted the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee and tookinto consideration its feedback in relation to progress on A payment of notional return is made annually in the same enhancing AML and sanctions compliance, along with progress in proportion as the vesting of the deferred awards on each vesting meeting the Groups obligations under the AML DPA and other date.
The amount is disclosed on a paid basis in the yearin which relevant orders.
The Committee also took into consideration the the payment is made.
No deferred cash awards have been made report of the independent Monitor in determining the scorecard to executive Directors under the current policy that has been outcomes.
operated from the 2016 financial year.
In order for any annual incentive award to be made, each executive Director must achieve a required behaviour rating, which is assessed by reference to the HSBC Values.
For 2017, all executive Directors achieved the required behaviour rating.
146 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The performance achieved by executive Directors in the year is shown in the table below.
1 Profit before tax, as defined for Group annual bonus pool calculation.
This definition excludes business disposal gains and losses, debt valuation adjustments, restructuring and writeoff costs included in Costs to Achieve' and variable pay expense.
It does, however, take into account fines, penalties and costs of customer redress, which are excluded from the adjusted profit before tax.
The adjusted profit before tax as per adjusted results is found on page 2.
2 Measured by reference to the 2017 exit run-rate for adjusted costs compared with our 2014 cost base.
3 Strategic growth measures include optimising global network, rebuilding NAFTA region profitability, delivering growth above GDP from our international network, pivot to Asia and Renminbi internationalisation.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 147 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Non-financial performance The table below provides an overview of the non-financial performance achieved by each executive Director.
Stuart Gulliver Performance Assessment Global Standards including risk and The financial crime risk management agenda has continued to be pursued rigorously 85.0% compliance resulting in key compliance action plan deliverables being met and strong progress made on Global Standards programme.
This has been reinforced by a strong tone from the top, Achieve and sustain compliance with active engagement at relevant governance forums and full commitment to the ongoing global financial crime compliance development of the Financial Crime Risk 'FCR' function.
Risk management practices policies and procedures, and or have materially strengthened across regions and businesses.
However, further improvement is approved dispensations in place.
needed before sustainable maturity is achieved.
Implementation of the operational risk Implemented the operational risk management framework with key milestones met.
The conduct programme consistently delivered against the committed plan, including high Implementation of global conduct priority conduct gaps closed and action plans implemented in respect of remaining gaps as programme and maturity level achieved well as the production and embedding of conduct management information.
Achieved against the required conduct outcomes.
consistent management, oversight and delivery of conduct outcomes across all global Effective risk management with AML, businesses and significant global functions, including the effective transition to business as sanctions, anti-bribery and corruption usual activities.
The AML DPA expired on 11 December 2017, and at the DoJ's request, the charges deferred by the AML DPA have been dismissed by the US district court that oversaw the agreement.
Personal objectives HSBC scored Aleadership level in the Climate Disclosure Project 2017 climate change 97.9% rankings.
In 2017, HSBC developed and published its sustainability strategy and announced Ensure climate change is reflected five commitments to support the transition to a low-carbon economy.
These include a across the Groups activities.
commitment to provide $100bn of sustainable finance, demonstrating HSBCs ambition to Optimise global network and reduce be a leading global partner to the public and private sectors in the transition to a low complexity.
Set up UK ring-fenced bank The Groups geographic coverage has been reduced to 67 countries and territories and headquartered in Birmingham and move previously announced transactions closures are being progressed.
the business to be ready for UK Establishment of the UK ring-fenced bank is on track, with the provisional banking licence departure from the EU.
approved by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
91% of Birmingham head office Delivery of high-priority projects.
roles resourced, and the majority of technology deployments complete.
Improve customer satisfaction and Implementation plan for a UK departure from the EU is on track.
The high-priority programmes, including digital transformation and cybersecurity have been Complete succession and transition assessed as fully met.
Achieved customer recommendation of 82% target 75% by retail customers.
Good progress has been made in 2017, notably establishing the Moments Of Truth survey in key markets.
Achieved target 26.3% for female representation at senior management level.
Group succession plan is in place for key management personnel.
Stuart Gulliver was awarded Order of the Aztec Eagle, Mexicos highest distinction for foreign citizens and was the first banking executive ever to receive this award.
148 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Iain Mackay Performance Assessment Capital management Capital management framework fully implemented with capital actions enabled and return 100.0% on tangible equity introduced as the revised capital management measure in internal and Implement consistent capital external reporting.
management framework across the Group for internal and external reporting.
Global Standards including risk and Significant effort undertaken during 2017 to strengthen the self-identification, recording 90.0% compliance and remediation of audit issues through the implementation, training and awareness of the enhanced control framework.
There were a small number of residual risks, all of which are Effective management of material appropriately managed.
Largely implemented the operational risk transformation programme and operational risk Implementation of the operational risk management framework.
Strong progress made towards the implementation of risk steward responsibilities for Proactively review and challenge the accounting and tax risk.
Oversight of these risks within business areas is being progressed first line of defence to assess the through the controls optimisation project.
adequacy of risk management activities relating to accounting and tax.
Completed implementation of the global conduct programme milestones including the production and embedding of conduct management information.
Implementation of global conduct programme and maturity level achieved Successfully delivered stress test submissions: including Comprehensive Capital Analysis against the required conduct outcomes.
and Review CCAR, Annual Stress Testing and PRA stress tests.
Largely completed delivery of IFRS 9 programme.
Successful delivery of regulatory and internal stress tests in 2017.
Personal objectives First ESG report published in April 2017.
Updated ESG report published in November 2017.
97.7% Enhanced environmental, social and Significant cost and headcount saves achieved through the Global Finance transformation governance ESG disclosures.
together with substantial strengthening of the Global Finance centres.
Progress achieved in enhancing efficiency through process re-engineering and technology deployment with Deliver Global Finance transformation.
improvements in timing and quality of delivery.
Set-up UK ring-fenced bank UK ring-fenced bank financial and regulatory reporting infrastructure on track to support headquartered in Birmingham and move employees and product systems migrations and to start trading as HSBC UK on 1 July the business to be ready for a UK 2018, subject to ring-fencing transfer scheme approval by court.
91% of Birmingham head departure from the EU.
Finance Steering Committee established for dealing with UKs departure from the EU and Complete succession and transition implementation plan is on track.
Achieved 26.7% target 28.5% for female representation at senior management in the Finance function.
Global people & talent programme established across the Global Finance function, focusing on the identification, development and leverage of talent at all levels to strengthen capability, quality and diversity of leadership succession across the function.
Top 100 Programme launched in partnership with Duke Corporate Education.
Succession plans in place for key management personnel.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 149 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Marc Moses Performance Assessment Global Standards including risk and Enabled effective FCR management through the enterprise wide and operational risk 86.3% compliance management frameworks, provision of risk analytics support to FCR management and the completion of FCR model.
Ensure the Global Risk function enables and supports the FCR function to Implementation of operational risk management framework and the delivery of risk achieve and sustain compliance with management system of record on time and within budget.
Material operational risks are global financial crime compliance being actively managed and remediation actions relating to high and very high residual policies and procedures.
Implementation of the operational risk Completed the delivery of the US risk management measures to enable compliance with management framework.
regulations: largely completed the delivery of IFRS 9 and Dodd-Frank programmes.
Effective management of material Successfully delivered the 2017 Annual Cyclical Scenario: Biennial Exploratory Scenario operational risks.
submissions to the PRA and the CCAR submissions to the Federal Reserve Board.
Proactively review and challenge the Credit, market and liquidity metrics effectively managed through the Group Risk first line of defence to assess the Management Meeting and within Group risk appetite profile.
adequacy of risk management activities Successfully completed all 2017 conduct programme milestones including the production and fulfil risk steward responsibilities.
and embedding of conduct management information, and enabling compliance with Manage credit and market risk, and conduct regulations.
Maturity levels across conduct outcomes largely met expectations.
oversee liquidity risk within the Board approved risk appetite.
Implementation of global conduct programme and maturity level achieved against the required conduct outcomes.
Personal objectives Enabled the embedding of effective client and sustainability risk management: engaged 92.2% constructively with non-governmental organisations and participated actively in the Global Develop processes to measure exposure Climate Change Disclosure taskforce.
Actively applied revised sustainability policies and to carbon-intensive and low-carbonframeworks to support the successful launch of Green and Social Bonds, the risk intensive activities.
management of our  exposures such as incorporating new Define opportunities to develop risk standards for the palm oil sector to protect high carbon stock forests and peat, and delivery management policies and procedures of actions to reduce client sensitivity to risks associated with the transition from a highconsistent with Group risk appetite to carbon to low-carbon economy through the financing of green initiatives.
protect the Group from climate change Pivot to Asia with ongoing RBWM expansion and launch of China Cards has driven higher risk, and enable business activities returns and lending growth, particularly in Hong Kong and the Pearl River Delta.
Regulatory supporting a transition to a low-carbon approval obtained to establish HSBC Qianhai Securities Limited will increase access to economy.
Chinas markets for domestic and international clients.
Pivot to Asia and support growth of Effectively managed costs and headcount of the Global Risk function through rigorous customer lending.
monitoring of performance and implementation of transformation activities including Deliver Global Risk function process re-engineering, and location optimisation.
Strengthened RWA effectiveness and efficiency within CMB and GBM supporting overall Improve RWA effectiveness and reduction in Group RWAs.
Delivered Global Risk function people initiatives including succession plans and achieved Improve employee diversity.
27.1% target 27.7% for female representation at senior management in the Risk Complete succession and transition function.
150 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 dividend equivalents per regulatory requirements, the number of Long-term incentive awards shares to be awarded to executive Directors will be adjusted to Audited reflect the expected dividend yield of the shares over the vesting For the 2017 performance year, the Committee determined to period.
The measures that will be used to assess performance and grant Iain Mackay and Marc Moses an LTI award equivalent to payout are described below.
To the extent performance conditions 319% of base salary after taking into consideration performance are satisfied at the end of the three-year performance period, the achieved for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 and the awards will vest in five equal annual instalments commencing achievements against the strategic actions announced in June from around the third anniversary of the grant date.
The awards will be subject to athree-year performance awards are subject to a retention period of one year.
As the awards are not entitled to Performance conditions for LTI awards in respect of 2017 Minimum Target Maximum Weighting Measures 25% payout 50% payout 100% payout % 1 Average return on equity with CET1 underpin 9.0% 10.0% 11.0% 20 Cost-efficiency ratio 60.0% 58.0% 55.5% 20 2 Relative total shareholder return At median of the Straight-line vesting At upper quartile of the 20 peergroup.
between minimum and peer group.
Risk and compliance Performance will be assessed by the Committee based on a number of 25 qualitative andquantitative inputs such as feedback from the Financial System Achieve and sustain compliance with Global Financial Vulnerabilities Committee, Group Financial Crime Risk assessment against Crime Compliance policies and procedures.
Financial Crime Compliance objectives, outcome of assurance and audit Achieve a sustainable adoption of Group operation risk reviews, and achievement ofthe long-term Group objectives and priorities management framework, along with its policies and during the performance period.
Achieve and sustain delivery of global conduct outcomes and compliance with conduct of business regulatory obligations.
Strategy 15 3 Sustainable finance $30bn $34bn $37bn 4 Employee confidence 65% 67% 70% Customer Improvement in Improvement in Improvement in Based on customer recommendation in top five markets recommendation in recommendation in four recommendation in all of by revenue three of top five markets of top five markets for top five markets for for CMB, GBM and CMB, GBM and RBWM.
Total 100 1 Significant items are excluded from the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the company for the purpose of computing adjusted return on equity.
If the CET1 ratio at the end of performance period is below the CET1 risk tolerance level set in the RAS then, the assessment for this measure will be reduced to nil.
2 The peer group for the 2017 award is: Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Credit Suisse Group, DBS Group Holdings, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase & Co. Lloyds Banking Group, Standard Chartered and UBS Group.
3 To be assessed based on cumulative financing and investment made to develop clean energy, lower-carbon technologies and projects that contribute to the delivery of the Paris Agreement and the UN sustainable development goals.
4 Assessed based on results of the latest employee snapshot survey question I am seeing the positive impact of our strategy.
Payments to past Directors Retirement arrangements for Douglas Flint Audited Audited No payments were made to or in respect of former Directors inthe Douglas Flint retired from the Board on 30 September 2017.
In line year in excess of the minimum threshold of 50,000 set for this with the remuneration policy, he is not entitled to be considered purpose.
for any variable pay awards in respect of 2017.
In accordance with his contractual entitlements and the approved policy, he received Total pension entitlements the following payments and benefits until he ceased to be an Audited employee on 31 December 2017.
No employees who served as executive Directors during the year Salary and cash in lieu of pension: 487,500: and have a right to amounts under any HSBC final salary pension Contractual benefits valued at: 24,068. scheme for their services as executive Directors or are entitled to In December 2017, Douglas Flint received a payment of 377,500 additional benefits in the event of early retirement.
There is no in lieu of his salary and cash in lieu of pension for the period from retirement age set for Directors, but the normal retirement age for employees is 65.
1 January 2018 to 11 March 2018 and a payment of 180,000 in lieu of unused holiday entitlement.
He received no compensation External appointments payment for ceasing to be an executive Director.
Douglas Flint received 31,500 in fees from Chairman Mentors As disclosed in our approved remuneration policy, he is also International in the period to 30 September 2017. eligible to receive medical coverage for a period of seven years from 1 January 2018.
During 2017, Stuart Gulliver received SGD10,000 in fees as a member of the Monetary Authority of Singapore International Scheme interests awarded during 2017 Advisory Panel, which was donated to charity.
Audited The table below sets out the scheme interests awarded to Directors in 2017, for performance in 2016, as disclosed in the2016 Directors Remuneration Report.
No non-executive Directors received scheme interests during the financial year.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 151 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Scheme awards in 2017 Audited Percentage Face value receivable for Number of Share price End of 1,2 Basis on which Date of awarded minimum shares on date performance 1,2 3 Type of interest awarded award made award 000 performance awarded of grant period Stuart Gulliver Deferred shares Long-term incentive 2016 27 Feb 2017 3,990 25 613,562 6.5030 31 Dec 2019 Iain Mackay Deferred shares Long-term incentive 2016 27 Feb 2017 2,232 25 343,226 6.5030 31 Dec 2019 Marc Moses Deferred shares Long-term incentive 2016 27 Feb 2017 2,232 25 343,226 6.5030 31 Dec 2019 1 For annual incentive, awards were determined based on performance achieved during the period to 31 December 2016 and were subject to a six-month retention period on vesting.
These awards are also subject to clawback for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of the award.
The overall award level could have been 0% of the maximum opportunity if minimum performance was not achieved at the end of the performance period.
2 For LTI, awards are subject to a three-year forward-looking performance period and awards vest in five equal instalments subject to performance achieved.
On vesting, awards will be subject to a six-month retention period.
Awards are subject to malus during the vesting period and clawback for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of the award.
Details of performance conditions applicable during the forward-looking performance period are set out below.
3 Share price used is the closing mid-market price on the last working day preceding the date of grant.
The above table does not include details of shares issued as part Details of the performance measures and targets for the LTI award of the fixed pay allowances, as those shares vested immediately in respect of 2016 are detailed below.
and are not subject to any service or performance conditions.
Performance conditions for LTI awards in respect of 2016 Minimum Target Maximum Weighting Measures 25% payout 50% payout 100% payout % 1 Average return on equity 7.0% 8.5% 10.0% 20 Cost efficiency adjusted jaws Positive 1.5% 3.0% 20 2 Relative total shareholder return At median of the peergroup.
Straight-line vesting between At upper quartile of the peer 20 minimum and maximum.
Global Standards including riskand Not applicable Not applicable Met all commitments to 25 compliance achieve closure of the AML DPA and protect HSBC from Status of AML DPA.
further regulatory censure for financial crime compliance failings.
Achieve and sustain compliance with Performance will be assessed by the Committee based on a number of qualitative Global Financial Crime Compliance andquantitative inputs such as feedback from the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, policies and procedures.
Group Financial Crime Risk assessment against Financial Crime Compliance objectives, outcome of assurance and audit reviews, and achievement ofthe long-term Group objectives and priorities during the performance period.
Strategy International client revenues 50% 51% 52% 15 Share of revenues supported by international network Revenue synergies 22% 23% 24% Share of revenues supported by universal banking model 3 Employee 65% 67% 70% Results of employee survey Customer Rank within top three in Rank within top three in three Rank within top three in Based on customer recommendation atleast two of the four RBWM of the four RBWM and CMB allfour RBWM and CMB in home country markets and CMB customer segments customer segments in home customer segments in home in home country markets.
100 Total 1 Significant items are excluded from the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the company for the purpose of computing adjusted return on equity.
2 The peer group for the 2016 award is: Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Credit Suisse Group, DBS Group Holdings, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase & Co. Lloyds Banking Group, Standard Chartered and UBS Group.
3 Assessed based on results of the latest employee snapshot survey question I am seeing the positive impact of our strategy.
152 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 are set out below.
The table below shows the comparison of Directors interests in shares shareholdings to the company shareholding guidelines.
There Audited have been no changes in the shareholdings of the Directors from The shareholdings of all persons who were Directors in 2017, 31 December 2017 to the date of this report.
including the shareholdings of their connected persons, at 31December 2017, or date of retirement from the Board, if earlier, Shares Audited At 31 Dec 2017, or date of retirement from the Board, if earlier Scheme interests Shares awarded subject to Shareholding at 1 deferral 31 Dec 2017, or date of Share 4 Shareholding retirement from the interests without with 2 3 guidelines Board, if earlier % of number performance performance 5 4, 6 7 % of salary salary of shares Share options conditions conditions Executive Directors Douglas Flint retired from the Board on 30 September 2017 100% 125% 252,606 2,919 Stuart Gulliver 400% 2,211% 3,711,169 2,293,071 738,499 Iain Mackay 300% 470% 442,118 3,469 1,268,016 426,997 Marc Moses 300% 1,284% 1,207,068 1,288,389 424,927 250,000 8 Group Managing Directors shares n a n a n a n a n a 1 The gross number of shares is disclosed.
A portion of these shares will be sold at vesting to cover any income tax and social security which falls due at the time of vesting.
2 Unvested share-based incentives are note counted towards compliance with the shareholding guideline.
3 The value of the shareholding is calculated using an average of the daily closing share prices in the three months to 31 December 2017, 7.4468.
4 For variable pay awards annual incentive and LTI, in line with regulatory requirements, any deferred shares net of tax which the Director becomes entitled to are subject to a retention requirement, such that they must be held for a predefined period of time.
To provide the executive Directors with appropriate flexibility, the Committee determined that, the requirement to hold these shares could be met either by retaining the shares that vested from the underlying award net of tax or by separately retaining a number of shares equivalent to those that vested under the award.
The Committee consider that such an arrangement results in the employee holding the same number of shares as per the original intention of the retention period as set out in the remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2014.
5 All share options are unvested and unexercised.
6 Includes Group Performance Share Plan 'GPSP' awards, which were made following an assessment of performance over the relevant period ending on 31 December before the grant date but are subject to a five-year vesting period.
7 Awards granted in March 2013 are subject to service conditions and satisfactory completion of the AML DPA, as determined by the Committee.
The AML DPA condition ends on the fifth anniversary of the award date.
LTI awards granted in February 2017 are subject to the performance conditions as set out on page 152.
8 All Group Managing Directors are expected to meet their shareholding guideline by 2019 or within five years of the date of their appointment, whichever is later.
Share options Audited Date of award Exercise price Exercisable At 1 Jan Exercised At 31 Dec 2017, or date 2017 in year of retirements from the Board, 1 from until if earlier Douglas Flint 23 Sep 2014 5.1887 1 Jan 2018 30 June 2018 2,919 2,919 Iain Mackay 23 Sep 2014 5.1887 1 Nov 2017 30 April 2018 3,469 3,469 1 May be advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, such as retirement.
The above awards were made under HSBC UK Sharesave, an allSummary of shareholder return and Group Chief employee share plan under which eligible employees may Executive remuneration begranted options to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
The The following graph shows the total shareholder return TSR exercise price is determined by reference to the average market performance against the FTSE 100 Total Return Index for the ninevalue of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares on the five business days year period that ended on 31 December 2017.
The FTSE100 Total immediately preceding the invitation date, then applying a Return Index has been chosen as this is a recognised broad equity discount of 20%.
Employees may make contributions of up to market index of which HSBC Holdings is a member.
The single 500 each month over a period of three or five years.
The market figure remuneration for the Group Chief Executive over the past value per ordinary share at 29December 2017 was 7.6650. nineyears, together with the outcomes of the respective Market value is the mid-market price derived from the London annualincentive and long-term incentive awards, is presented in Stock Exchange Daily Official List on the relevant date.
Under the the following table.
Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, the options are categorised asunlisted physically settled equity derivatives.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 153 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report HSBC TSR and FTSE 100 Total Return Index 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Group Chief Michael Michael Stuart Stuart Stuart Stuart Stuart Stuart Stuart Executive Geoghegan Geoghegan Gulliver Gulliver Gulliver Gulliver Gulliver Gulliver Gulliver Total single figure 000 7,580 7,932 8,047 7,532 8,033 7,619 7,340 5,675 6,086 1 Annual incentive % of maximum 94% 82% 58% 52% 49% 54% 45% 64% 80% 2,3 Long-term incentive % of maximum 25% 19% 50% 40% 49% 44% 41% % % 1 The 2012 annual incentive figure for Stuart Gulliver used for this table includes 60% of the annual incentive disclosed in the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report, which was deferred for five years and subject to service conditions and satisfactory completion of the AML DPA as determined by the Committee.
2 Long-term incentive awards are included in the single figure for the year in which the performance period is deemed to be substantially completed.
For GPSP awards this is the end of the financial year preceding the date of grant GPSP awards shown in 2011 to 2015 therefore relate to awards granted in 2012 to 2016.
For performance share awards that were awarded before introduction of GPSP, the value of awards that vested subject to satisfaction of performance conditions attached to those awards are included at the end of the third financial year following the date of grant for example, performance share awards shown in 2010 relates to awards granted in 2008.
3 The GPSP was replaced by the LTI in 2016 and the value for GPSP is nil for 2016 as no GPSP award was made for 2016.
The first LTI award was made in February 2017, with a performance period ending in 2019.
For year-on-year comparison purposes, if target performance is achieved overthe three-year performance period, LTI payout would be50% of grant value.
In this case, the single figure total remuneration of the Group Chief Executive for year-on-year comparison would be in 000 7,670 for 2016.
Stuart Gulliver was not eligible for an LTI award in respect of 2017 given his announced retirement.
Comparison of Group Chief Executive and allRelative importance of spend on pay employee pay The chart below shows the change in: The following charts compare the changes in Group Chief total staff pay between 2016 and 2017: and Executive pay to changes in employee pay between 2016 and dividends paid out in respect of 2016 and 2017.
2017, and provide a breakdown of total staff pay relative to the amount paid out in dividends.
In 2017, we returned a total of $3bn to shareholders through share buy-backs.
Percentage change in remuneration between 2016 and 2017 Relative importance of spend on pay Group Chief Executive Employee group 1 Base salary % 5% 2, 3 Benefits 10 % 3% 4 Annual incentive 25 % 12% 5% 4% 1 Employee group consists of local full-time UK employees as representative of employees from different businesses and functions across the Group.
Group ChiefExecutive's total fixed pay has not increased since 1 January 2014.
2 There has been no change in the benefits provided to the Group Chief Executive.
The change in the value of the benefit is due to the change in the taxable value of the benefit as reported in the single figure table.
3 For benefits, employee group consists of UK employees which was deemed the most appropriate comparison for the Group Chief Executive given varying local requirements.
4 For annual incentive, employee group consists of all employees globally.
The change is based on annual incentive poolas disclosed on page 31 and staff numbers full-time equivalents at the financial year-end.
The percentage change in annual incentive award of the GroupChief Executive is primarily driven by the difference in the 2016 and 2017 scorecard outcome, reflecting performance achieved in those years, and change in policy.
Details of the 2017 total single figure of remuneration for the Group Chief Executive are on page 145.
Return to shareholder Employee compensation and benefits Dividends Share buy-back 154 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Non-executive Directors Audited The table below shows the total fees of non-executive Directors for 2017, together with comparative figures for 2016.
2 Benefits include accommodation and travel-related expenses relating to attendance at Board and other meetings at HSBC Holdings' registered office.
Amounts disclosed have been grossed up using a tax rate of 45%, where relevant.
The 2016 amounts have been restated to exclude National Insurance Contributions.
3 Includes fees of 330,000 in 2017 315,000 in 2016 as a Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Risk Committee of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 4 Appointed as a member of the Group Remuneration Committee on 26 May 2017.
5 Includes fees of 75,000 in 2017 72,000 in 2016 as a Director, Deputy Chairman and member of the Nomination Committee of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
6 Includes 8,000 inclusive of VAT in respect of his membership of a verwaltungsrat advisory body to HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG.
Stepped down as Chairman of the Group Risk Committee on 28 April 2017 and resigned from the Group Risk Committee on 30 November 2017.
7 Includes fees of 187,000 in 2017 173,000 in 2016 as a Director, and member of the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and as a Director, member of the Audit Committee and Chairman of the Risk Committee of Hang Seng Bank Limited.
8 Includes fees of 427,000 in 2017 411,000 in 2016 as Chairman of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 9 Appointed as a member of the Group Remuneration Committee on 26 May 2017.
10 Appointed as Senior Independent Director on 28 April 2017.
Includes fees of 382,000 in 2017 345,000 in 2016 as non-executive Chairman of HSBC Bank plc.
11 Appointed as Chairman of the Group Risk Committee on 28 April 2017.
12 Received a one time relocation benefit of 300,000.
13 Appointed as Chairman of the Conduct & Values Committee and the Group Remuneration Committee on 28 April 2017.
Non-executive Directors interests in shares Audited The shareholdings of persons who were non-executive Directors in 2017, including the shareholdings of their connected persons, at 31 December 2017, or date of cessation as a Director, if earlier, are set out below.
The table below shows the comparison of shareholdings to the company shareholding guidelines.
Shares Shareholding guidelines Share interests number of shares number of shares Phillip Ameen 15,000 5,000 Kathleen Casey 15,000 9,125 Laura Cha 15,000 18,200 Henri fide Castries 15,000 17,116 Lord Evans of Weardale 15,000 12,892 Joachim Faber 15,000 66,605 Sam Laidlaw Retired on 28 April 2017 15,000 41,887 Irene Lee 15,000 10,588 John Lipsky 15,000 16,165 Rachel Lomax Retired on 28 April 2017 15,000 18,900 Heidi Miller 15,000 4,200 David Nish 15,000 50,000 Jonathan Symonds 15,000 42,821 Jackson Tai 15,000 44,825 Mark Tucker Appointed on 1 September 2017 15,000 276,000 Pauline van der Meer Mohr 15,000 15,000 Paul Walsh Resigned on 21 April 2017 15,000 5,211 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 155 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Voting results from Annual General Meeting The table below summarises the voting results at our AGM.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2018 Annual incentive scorecards for executive Directors The weightings and performance measures for the 2018 annual incentive award for Stuart Gulliver, John Flint, Iain Mackay and Implementation of fixed remuneration is disclosed on page 144, Marc Moses are disclosed below.
The performance targets for the along with the remuneration policy summary.
Further details on annual incentive are commercially sensitive and it would be performance measures and weightings for the 2018 annual detrimental to the Groups interests to disclose them at the start of incentive award are provided below.
Subject to commercial sensitivity, we will John Flint's fixed remuneration on taking on the the role of Group disclose the targets for a given year in the Annual Report and Chief Executive is disclosed on page 144.
In line with the other Accounts for that year in the Directors Remuneration Report.
executive Directors, he will be eligible for discretionary variable 2018 annual incentive scorecards pay that consists of an annual incentive award up to a maximum value of 215% of base salary, and a long-term incentive award up Executive Directors will be eligible for an annual incentive award to a maximum of 320% of base salary.
2018 annual incentive scorecards measures and weightings John Flint and Stuart Gulliver Iain Mackay Marc Moses Measures % % % Profit before tax 20 10 15 Positive JAWS 10 15 Revenue growth 10 Capital management 10 25 10 1 Strategic priorities 25 25 15 2 Risk and compliance 25 25 60 Total 100 100 100 1 Measures will include key objectives set out in the strategy to be agreed with the Board.
2 Measures will include objectives relating to financial crime risk, operational risk, conduct and other financial risks.
Stuart Gulliver will step down as Group Chief Executive on Stuart Gulliver will also be granted Good Leaver status, in 20February 2018, and John Flint will succeed as Group Chief accordance with the plan rules, in respect of his unvested deferred Executive with effect from 21 February 2018.
The scorecard awards that were awarded in performance years 2012 to 2017. outcome as determined in line with the table above will be applied These awards were published in the annual report in those to the maximum annual incentive award opportunity for Stuart respective years and approved by shareholders at the respective Gulliver and John Flint on a pro-rata basis taking into account time AGMs.
These awards will vest on the scheduled vesting dates, spent by them in the Group Chief Executive role.
subject to the relevant terms including post-vest retention periods, malus and, where applicable, clawback and the Stuart Gulliver will also be eligible to be considered for an annual achievement of any required performance conditions.
Vesting of incentive award and the Committee will consider his contribution his 2016 performance year LTI award will be pro-rated for the as he continues to advise HSBC during the period between period he is employed by the Group.
21February 2018 and his retirement date of 11 October 2018.
As per the shareholder approved remuneration policy, Stuart Long-term incentives Gulliver will be entitled to a payment in lieu of any accrued but Details of the performance measures and targets for LTI awards to untaken holiday entitlement at his retirement date of 11 October be made in 2018, in respect of 2017, are provided on page 151.
2018, and certain post-departure benefits including medical cover for a period of up to seven years.
He will receive no compensation The performance measures and targets for awards to be made in or payment for the termination of his service contract.
respect of 2018, granted in 2019, will be provided in the Annual Report and Accounts 2018.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2018 for non-executive Directors Retirement arrangements for Stuart Gulliver The Committee has reviewed the fee levels payable to the nonStuart Gulliver will step down as executive Director and Group executive Directors and details can be found on page 143.
Chief Executive on 20 February 2018 and will then cease employment with the Group on 11 October 2018.
Under the terms of his service contract, Stuart Gulliver will Additional remuneration disclosures continue to receive his current salary of 1,250,000 per annum, his This section provides disclosures required under the Hong Kong fixed pay allowance of 1,700,000 per annum, his cash in lieu of Ordinances, Hong Kong Listing Rules, the US Securities and pension allowance of 375,000 per annum and his contractual Exchange Commission Form 20-F and the Pillar 3 remuneration benefits until his retirement.
He will also be eligible to be disclosures.
considered for a 2018 annual incentive award as set out above.
He will not receive a 2017 or 2018 LTI award, for which he otherwise would have been eligible to be considered for an amount which could have totalled up to 3,990,000 per year.
156 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Employee compensation and benefits Executive Directors Set out below are details of compensation paid to executive Directors for the year ended 31December 2017.
The information for 2016 has been restated to include the value of LTI.
The aggregate amount of Directors' emoluments as defined above Emoluments of senior management and five highest including both executive Directors and non-executive Directors paid employees for the year ended 31 December 2017 was $30,608,444.
As per The following table sets out the details of emoluments paid to our policy, benefits in kind mayinclude, but are not limited to, the senior management being here, executive Directors and Group provision of medical insurance, income protection insurance, Managing Directors of the Group for the year ended 31December health assessment, lifeassurance, club membership, tax 2017, or for the period of appointment in 2017 as a Director or assistance, Hong Kong accommodation, car benefit, travel Group Managing Director.
Details of the remuneration paid to the assistance, and relocation costs including any tax due on five highest paid employees, comprising one executive Director thesebenefits, where applicable.
Medical insurance benefit of and four Group Managing Directors of the Group, for the year 4,181 $5,382 was provided to former director, Alexander ended 31 December 2017 are also presented.
Flockhart, during the year ended 31 December 2017.
Amounts are converted into US dollars based on the average year-to-date exchange rates for the respective year.
Emoluments Five highest paid employees Senior management 000 000 Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind 18,729 41,143 Pension contributions 12 198 1 Performance-related pay paid or receivable 15,272 40,220 Inducements to join paid or receivable 2,465 2,465 Compensation for loss of office Total 36,478 84,026 Total $000 46,955 108,159 1 Includes the value of deferred shares awards at grant.
Remuneration for all employees Variable pay is awarded on a discretionary basis and dependent upon Group, business and individual performance.
Remuneration policy overview and governance Employee benefits offered should be valued by a diverse Our remuneration strategy is designed to reward competitively the workforce, appropriate at the local market level and support achievement of long-term sustainable performance, and attract HSBCs commitment to employee well-being.
and motivate the very best people who are committed to Promoting employee share ownership through variable pay maintaining a long-term career with the Group while performing deferral or voluntary enrolment in an all employee share plan.
their role in the long-term interests of our stakeholders.
We believe that remuneration is an important tool for instilling the right Reward packages should be linked to performance and behaviours, and driving and encouraging actions that are aligned behaviour with no bias towards an individuals ethnicity, to organisational values and expectations.
gender, age, or any other characteristic.
Our remuneration strategy as approved by the Committee is The Group remuneration policy for all employees based on the based on the following principles: above principles and objectives applies on a group-wide basis, subject to compliance with any applicable local laws and An alignment to performance at all levels individual, business regulation.
and Group taking into account both what has been achieved and how it has been achieved.
The how helps ensure that Governance and role of relevant stakeholders performance is sustainable in the longer term, consistent with The Committee is responsible for setting the principles, HSBCs values, conduct and risk and compliance standards.
parameters and governance framework for the Groups Being informed, but not driven by, market position and remuneration policy applicable to all Group employees.
Market benchmarks are sourced through independent Committee also oversees the application of the policy to the wider specialists and provide an indication of the range of pay levels employee population, including employees in subsidiaries and and employee benefits provided by our competitors.
branches, subject to local regulations.
Targeting pay for employees across the full market range All members of the Committee are independent non-executive depending upon their individual performance and that of the Directors of HSBC Holdings plc.
Details of the roles, responsibility Group.
An individuals position in this market range will also and membership of the Committee, including other committees vary depending upon their performance in any given year.
and senior management that the Committee engages with, are set Compliance with relevant regulation across all of our countries out on page 132.
Activities and advisers used by the Committee are detailed on page 144. and territories.
Based on these principles, our approach to determining The Committee reviewed the Group's remuneration policy in remuneration is based on the following objectives: 2017 and made no material changes to the policy and its implementation for 2017.
Offering our employee a competitive total reward package that includes a mix of fixed pay, variable pay and employee benefits.
Maintaining an appropriate balance between fixed pay, variable pay and employee benefits, taking into consideration an employees seniority, role, individual performance and the market.
158 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Link between risk, performance and reward The key features of our remuneration framework that subject to compliance with local laws and regulations enable us to achieve Our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk alignment between risk, performance and reward are detailed in management while supporting our business objectives.
Alignment between risk and reward Framework Application elements Variable pay The Group variable pay pool is expected to move in line with Group performance.
We also use a countercyclical funding methodology, pool and which is categorised by both a floor and a ceiling, and the payout ratio reduces as performance increases to avoid pro-cyclicality.
The individual floor recognises that even in challenging times, remaining competitive is important.
The ceiling recognises that at higher levels of performance performance it is not always necessary to continue to increase the variable pay pool, thereby limiting the risk of inappropriate behaviour scorecard to drive financial performance.
The main quantitative and qualitative performance and risk metrics used for assessment of performance include: Group and business unit performance: an evaluation of overall Group and business unit performance provided by Finance is considered by the Committee when determining the Group variable pay pool and, subsequently, the variable pay pool for each business unit.
Where performance in a year is weak, as measured by profits, this will have a direct and proportionate impact on the pool.
Judgement is exercised to ensure that the pool is adjusted for appropriate current and future risks taking into consideration performance against the RAS and global conduct outcomes.
Fines, penalties and provisions for customer redress are automatically included in the Committees definition of profit.
Individual performance: assessment of performance is made with reference to a balanced scorecard of clear and relevant objectives.
Risk and compliance objectives are included in the performance scorecard of senior management and a mandatory global risk objective is included in the scorecard of all other employees.
All employees receive a behaviour rating as well as a performance rating, which ensures performance is assessed not only on what is achieved but also on how it is achieved.
Therefore, variable pay of individuals is expected to reflect Group performance, their individual behaviour rating and performance rating determined against their performance objectives for the year, which are aligned to the Group's strategic actions, risk objectives and adherence to the HSBC Values.
Remuneration The performance and remuneration of individuals in Control Functions, including risk and compliance employees, is assessed for Control according to a balanced scorecard of objectives specific to the functional role they undertake, to ensure their remuneration is Function staff determined independent of the performance of the business areas they control.
The Committee is responsible for approving the remuneration recommendations for the Group Chief Risk Officer and senior management in Control Functions.
Group policy is for Control Functions staff to report into their respective function and remuneration decisions for senior functional roles are led by, and must carry the approval of, the global function head.
The variable pay pool for Control Functions is determined centrally, without influence from the relevant business areas.
Furthermore, employees performing a Control Function role have a direct reporting line through the relevant global function rather than through the relevant business areas.
Remuneration is carefully benchmarked with the market and internally to ensure that it is set at an appropriate level.
Variable pay Variable pay awards may be adjusted downwards in circumstances including: adjustments Detrimental conduct, including conduct which brings HSBC into disrepute.
Involvement in events resulting in significant operational losses, or events which have caused or have the potential to cause significant harm to HSBC.
Non-compliance with the HSBC Values and other mandatory requirements or policies.
Positive adjustments to variable pay awards can also be made where exceptional behaviours have been demonstrated which go beyond the normal course of an employees responsibilities, and those which set an outstanding example of our Values-aligned behaviours and conduct expectations.
The override policy was introduced in 2014, based on the recommendations received from the independent Monitor as appointed by the AML DPA.
This is applicable for current-year variable pay awards for executive Directors and certain other senior management.
In deciding the application and degree of any such downward override toreduce variable pay awards, the Committee considers feedback from the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, the Monitor in relation to cooperation with its review and our group legal function.
Malus Malus can be made to unvested deferred awards granted in prior years.
It may be applied in circumstances including: Detrimental conduct, including conduct which brings the business into disrepute.
Past performance being materially worse than originally reported.
Restatement, correction or amendment of any financial statements.
Improper or inadequate risk management.
Clawback Clawback can be applied to vested or paid awards granted to MRTs on or after 1 January 2015 for a period of seven years.
From 2016 onwards, this period may be extended to 10 years for employees under the PRAs Senior Manager Regime in the event of ongoing internal regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period.
Clawback may be applied in circumstances including: Participation in, or responsibility for, conduct which results in significant losses.
Failing to meet appropriate standards and propriety.
Reasonable evidence of misconduct or material error that would justify, or would have justified, summary termination of a contract of employment.
A material failure of risk management suffered by HSBC or a business unit in the context ofGroup risk-management standards, policies and procedures.
Sales We do not have commission-based sales plans globally.
incentives HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 159 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration structure and design characteristic of our remuneration system that applies on a Group-wide basis, subject to compliance with local laws, is Total compensation fixed pay and variable pay is the key focus of set out below: our remuneration framework, with variable pay differentiated by performance and adherence to the HSBC Values.
The key features Overview of remuneration structure for employees Remuneration components Application and objectives Fixed pay This may include salary, fixed pay allowance, cash in lieu of pension and other cash allowances in accordance with local market practices.
They are categorised as fixed pay as all of these elements are based on predetermined criteria, nonAttract and retain discretionary, transparent and are not reduced based on performance.
employees by paying market competitive pay for Represent a higher proportion of total compensation for more junior employees.
the role, skills and All elements of fixed pay are fixed and may change to reflect an individuals position, role or grade, cost of living in the experience required for the country, individual skills, competencies, capabilities and experience, as may be evidenced by sustained strong performance business.
Fixed pay is delivered in cash on a monthly basis, except for executive Directors, where the fixed pay allowance is delivered in shares.
Benefits This may include, but not be limited to, the provision of pensions, medical insurance, life insurance, health assessment and relocation allowances.
Ensure market competitiveness and provide benefits in accordance with local market practice.
Annual incentive All employees are eligible to be considered for a discretionary variable pay award.
Individual awards are determined on the basis of individual performance against their performance objectives for the year, which are aligned to the Groups Drive and reward strategic actions, a global risk objective and adherence to the HSBC Values and business principles.
performance based on annual financial and nonIn addition, there is a process to identify behavioural transgressions for all employees during the year to ensure compliance financial measures with Group policies and procedures, and other expected behaviours.
Such transgressions are taken into consideration in consistent with the determining ex-ante adjustments to variable pay.
mediumto long-term Represent a higher proportion of total compensation for more senior employees and will be more closely aligned to Group strategy, stakeholder and business performance as seniority increases.
interests and adherence to Variable pay awards for all Group employees identified as MRTs under European Union Regulatory Technical Standard HSBC values.
All awards are subject to malus and awards granted to employees identified as MRTs are subject to clawback see section on variable pay adjustment, malus and clawback.
Awards can be in the form of cash, shares and, where required by regulations, in units linked to asset management funds.
A portion of the annual incentive award may be deferred and vests over a period of three years, five years or seven years.
Deferral A Group-wide deferral approach is applicable to all employees across the Group.
Awards above a specified threshold are subject to deferral based on a deferral table, as approved by the Group Remuneration Committee.
The deferred variable pay Alignment with the is delivered over HSBC shares.
Vesting of deferred awards will be annually over a three-year period with 33% vesting on mediumto long-term the first anniversary of grant, 33% on the second anniversary and 34% on the third anniversary.
strategy, stakeholder interests and adherence to For MRTs identified in accordance with the PRA and Financial Conduct Authority FCA remuneration rules, awards are 2 the HSBC Values.
generally subject to a minimum 40% deferral 60% for awards of 500,000 or more over a minimum period of three years.
A longer deferral period is applied for certain MRTs as follows: Five years for individuals identified in a risk-manager MRT role under the PRA and FCA remuneration rules.
This reflects the deferral period prescribed by both the PRA and the European Banking Authority 'EBA' for individuals performing key senior roles with the Group.
Seven years for individuals in PRA designated senior management functions, being the deferral period mandated by the PRA as reflecting the typical business cycle period.
Individuals identified as MRTs under local regulations and not considered Group MRTs are subject to a three-year deferral period, except in Germany and Malta where individuals reporting into the local management Board and Executive Committee members, respectively, are subject to a five-year deferral.
Local MRTs are also subject to a minimum deferral rate aligned to the Group MRT policy, except in China where a minimum deferral rate of 50% is applied for the CEO in China, Oman where a minimum deferral rate of 45% is applied and Germany where a minimum deferral rate of 60% is applied for local management board members.
All deferred awards are subject to malus provisions subject to compliance with local laws.
Awards granted to MRTs on or after 1 January 2015 are also subject to clawback.
HSBC operates an anti-hedging policy for all employees who are required to certify each year that they have not entered into any personal hedging strategies in respect of HSBC securities.
Deferral instruments For all employees, other than MRTs identified in accordance with the PRA and FCA remuneration rules or other similar local rules, the underlying instrument for all deferred awards is HSBC shares to ensure alignment between the long-term interest Alignment with the of our employees and the interest of shareholders.
mediumto long-term strategy, stakeholder For Group and local MRTs, excluding executive Directors where deferral is typically in the form of shares only, a minimum interests and adherence to of 50% of the deferred awards is over HSBC shares and the balance is deferred into cash.
In accordance with local the HSBC Values.
regulatory requirements, for local MRTs in Oman 100% of the deferred amount is delivered in shares and for local MRTs in Poland 50% of the deferred awards are delivered in an instrument linked to the value of the local entity and the balance in deferred cash.
For some employees in our asset management business, where required by the regulations applicable to asset management entities within the Group, at least 50% of the deferred awards is linked to fund units reflective of funds managed by those entities, with the remaining portion of deferred awards being in the form of deferred cash awards.
160 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview of remuneration structure for employees continued Remuneration components Application and objectives Post-vesting retention Awards over HSBC shares or linked to relevant fund units granted to MRTs identified in accordance with the PRA and FCA period remuneration rules and local MRTs except those in Brazil, China, Germany, Oman and Russia are generally subject to a one-year retention period post vesting.
For local MRTs in Brazil, Russia and Germany, a six-month retention period is To ensure appropriate applied.
No retention period is applied for local MRTs in China and Oman.
MRTs who are subject to a five-year deferral period, except senior management or individuals in PRA and FCA designated senior management functions, have a six-month retention period applied to their awards.
Long-term incentive Only executive Directors are eligible to be considered for an LTI award.
See details on page 151. awards LTI Alignment with the mediumto long-term strategy, stakeholder interests and adherence to the HSBC Values.
Shareholding All executive Directors, Group Managing Directors and Group General Managers of HSBC Holdings are subject to this requirement requirement.
Details of the minimum shareholding requirement for executive Directors and Group Managing Directors are set out on page 153.
Group General Managers have a minimum shareholding requirement of 25,000 shares.
Align interests of senior management with The minimum shareholding requirement must be achieved by 2019 or within five years of their appointment, whichever is shareholders' interests.
Buy-out awards Awards may be offered if an individual holds any outstanding unvested awards that are forfeited on resignation from the previous employer.
To support recruitment of talent.
The terms of the buy-out awards will not be more generous than the terms attached to the awards forfeited on cessation of employment with the previous employer.
Guaranteed variable Guaranteed variable remuneration is awarded in exceptional circumstances for new hires, and is limited to the individuals remuneration first year of employment only.
To support recruitment of The exceptional circumstances where HSBC would offer a guaranteed variable remuneration would typically involve a talent.
critical new hire and would also depend on factors such as the seniority of the individual, whether the new hire candidate has any competing offers and the timing of the hire during the performance year.
Severance payments Where an individuals employment is terminated involuntarily for gross misconduct then, subject to compliance with local laws, the Groups policy is not to make any severance payment in such cases.
For such individuals, all outstanding To adhere to contractual unvested awards are forfeited.
agreements with For other cases of involuntary termination of employment, any severance that may be determined to be paid to an involuntary leavers.
individual will take into consideration the performance of the individual, contractual notice period, applicable local laws and circumstances of the case.
Where an individuals employment is terminated involuntarily except where an individual is dismissed for gross misconduct, all outstanding unvested awards will normally continue to vest in line with the applicable vesting dates and, where relevant, any performance conditions attached to the awards and malus and clawback provisions applicable to those awards.
Severance amounts awarded to MRTs are considered as fixed pay where such amounts include: i payments of fixed remuneration that would have been payable during the notice and or consultation period: ii statutory severance payments: iii payments determined in accordance with any approach applicable in the relevant jurisdictions: and iv payments made to settle a potential or actual dispute.
1 Shareholders approved the increase in the maximum ratio between the fixed and variable components of total remuneration from 1:1 to 1:2 at the 2014 Annual General Meeting held on 23 May 2014 98% in favour.
The Group has also used the discount rate of 21.85% for individuals with seven-year deferral period and 13.85% for individuals with five-year deferral period.
This discount rate was used for six MRTs in UK and one MRT Hong Kong.
2 HSBC does not dis-apply any remuneration rules on proportionality grounds.
However, in accordance with the terms of the PRA and FCA remuneration rules, the deferral requirement for MRTs is not applied to individuals where their total compensation is 500,000 or less and variable pay is not more than 33% of total compensation.
For these individuals, the Group standard deferral applies.
Material Risk Takers The Committee reviews the methodology, key decisions regarding Individuals are identified as MRTs based on the qualitative and identification, and approves the results of the identification exercise, including proposed MRT exclusions.
quantitative criteria set out in the Regulatory Technical Standard RTS EU 604 2014 and additional criteria determined by the Management body and senior management Committee.
The following key principles underpin HSBCs For the purpose of the Pillar 3 remunerations disclosures executive identification process: Directors and non-executive Directors are considered to be MRTs are identified at Group and HSBC Bank plc consolidated members of the management body.
Members of the Group level.
Management Board other than the executive Directors are MRTs are also identified at material solo regulated entity level in considered as senior management.
No guaranteed bonus, sign-on EU countries.
or severance payments were made to this population for the year ended 31 December 2017.
HSBC uses the Global Business dimension as the primary basis for identifying MRTs within its matrix management structure.
Remuneration disclosures In addition to applying the qualitative and quantitative criteria The tables below set out the remuneration disclosures for specified in the RTS, HSBC also identifies additional MRTs based individuals identified as MRTs for HSBC Holdings plc.
on its own internal criteria, which includes compensation Remuneration information for individuals who are only identified thresholds and individuals in certain roles and grades outside the as MRTs at HSBC Bank plc or other solo-regulated entity levels are EU where such individuals are not strictly captured by the criteria included in those entities' relevant disclosures.
The 2017 variable pay information included in the tables below is The list of MRTs, and any exclusions from it, is reviewed by the based on the market value of awards granted to MRTs.
For share heads of the relevant global businesses and global functions, Chief awards, the market value is based on HSBC Holdings plc's share Risk Officers, Chief Operating Officers and Heads of Human price at the date of grant unless indicated otherwise.
For cash Resources of the relevant global functions and businesses.
The awards, it is the value of awards expected to be paid to the overall results are reviewed by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
individual over the deferral period.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 161 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration fixed and variable amounts Executive Directors Non-executive Directors Senior management Total Number of MRTs 4 17 15 36 $m $m $m $m Total fixed 11.5 4.4 33.1 49.0 1 Cash-based 6.9 4.4 33.1 44.4 of which: deferred cash Share-based 4.6 4.6 of which: deferred shares 2 Total variable 14.0 44.1 58.1 Cash-based 20.7 20.7 of which: deferred cash 12.5 12.5 3 Share-based 14.0 23.4 37.4 3 of which: deferred shares 9.5 15.2 24.7 3 Other forms 3 of which: deferred Total remuneration 25.5 4.4 77.2 107.1 1 Cash-based fixed remuneration is paid immediately.
2 Variable pay awarded in respect of 2017.
In accordance with shareholder approval received on 23 May 2014 98% in favour, for each MRT the variable component of remuneration for any one year is limited to 200% of fixed component of the total remuneration of the MRT.
3 Share-based awards are made in HSBC shares.
Vested shares are subject to a retention period of up to one year.
1 Deferred remuneration at 31 December Non-executive Executive Senior Directors management Total Directors $m Cash 2 Total outstanding deferred remuneration 3.1 24.8 27.9 of which: Unvested 3.1 24.8 27.9 Total amount of outstanding deferred and retained remuneration exposed to ex post explicit and or implicit adjustment 3.1 24.8 27.9 Total amount of amendment during the year due to ex post implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year due to ex post 3 explicit adjustment Total amount of deferred remuneration paid out in the financial year 1.5 7.2 8.7 Shares 2 Total outstanding deferred remuneration 66.7 68.7 135.4 of which: Unvested 66.7 68.7 135.4 Total amount of outstanding deferred and retained remuneration exposed to ex post explicit and or implicit adjustment 66.7 68.7 135.4 Total amount of amendment during the year due to ex post 9.7 10.5 20.2 implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year due to ex post 3 explicit adjustment Total amount of deferred remuneration paid out in the financial 4 year 20.0 25.1 45.1 Other forms 2 Total outstanding deferred remuneration of which: Unvested Total amount of outstanding deferred and retained remuneration exposed to ex post explicit and or implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year due to ex post implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year due to ex post 3 explicit adjustment Total amount of deferred remuneration paid out in the financial 4 year 1 This table provides details of balances and movements during performance year 2017.
For details of variable pay awards granted for 2017, please refer to the remuneration tables above.
Deferred remuneration is made in cash and or shares.
Share-based awards are made in HSBC shares.
2 Includes unvested deferred awards, and vested deferred awards subject to retention period as at 31 December 2017.
3 Includes any amendments due to malus or clawback.
Page 160 provides details of in-year variable pay adjustments.
4 Shares are considered as paid when they vest.
Vested shares are valued using the sale price or the closing share price on the business day immediately preceding the vesting day.
In accordance with shareholder approval received on 23 May 2014 98% in favour, for each MRT the variable component of remuneration for any one year is limited to 200% of the fixed component of the total remuneration of the MRT.
3 Share-based awards are made in HSBC shares and or linked to notional fund units in the HSBC World Selection Balanced Portfolio.
Guaranteed bonus, sign-on and severance payments Independent Retail Asset Corporate Investment control banking banking management functions All other Total functions 1 Guaranteed bonus and sign-on payments Made during year $m 11.4 0.4 1.7 0.8 0.7 15.0 Number of beneficiaries 17 1 3 3 1 25 2 Severance payments Awarded during year $m 17.3 1.9 1.4 0.6 4.8 26.0 Number of beneficiaries 31 3 2 2 4 42 Highest such award to a single person $m 1.9 0.7 1.2 0.5 2.9 2.9 Made during year $m 17.1 1.5 1.4 0.6 4.8 25.4 Number of beneficiaries 31 2 2 2 4 41 1 No sign-on payments were made in 2017.
A guaranteed bonus is awarded in exceptional circumstances for new hires, and in the first year only.
The circumstances where HSBC would offer a guaranteed bonus would typically involve a critical new hire and would also depend on factors such as the seniority of the individual, whether the new hire candidate has any competing offers and the timing of the hire during the performance year.
2 Includes payments such as payment in lieu of notice, statutory severance, outplacement service, legal fees, ex-gratia payments and settlements excludes pre-existing benefit entitlements triggered on terminations.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 163 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report 1 Deferred remuneration at 31 December Independent Investment Retail Asset Corporate control banking banking management functions All other Total functions $m Cash 2 Total outstanding deferred remuneration 162.9 19.2 8.3 19.9 12.4 24.4 247.1 of which: Unvested 162.9 19.2 8.3 19.9 12.4 24.4 247.1 Total amount of outstanding deferred and retained remuneration exposed to ex post 162.9 19.2 8.3 19.9 12.4 24.4 247.1 explicit and or implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year due to ex post implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year 3 due to ex post explicit adjustment Total amount of deferred remuneration paid 71.1 7.0 4.0 7.2 4.6 9.8 103.7 out in the financial year Shares 2 Total outstanding deferred remuneration 286.2 31.8 12.6 38.5 23.9 48.2 441.2 of which: Unvested 286.1 31.8 12.6 38.5 23.9 48.1 441.0 Total amount of outstanding deferred and retained remuneration exposed to ex post 286.2 31.8 12.6 38.5 23.9 48.2 441.2 explicit and or implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year 43.7 5.5 1.8 6.3 3.7 7.7 68.7 due to ex post implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year 3 due to ex post explicit adjustment Total amount of deferred remuneration paid 4 out in the financial year 231.1 30.5 11.0 29.2 20.2 32.1 354.1 Other forms 2 Total outstanding deferred remuneration 0.5 0.5 of which: Unvested 0.5 0.5 Total amount of outstanding deferred and retained remuneration exposed to ex post 0.5 0.5 explicit and or implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year due to ex post implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year 3 due to ex post explicit adjustment Total amount of deferred remuneration paid 4 out in the financial year 0.4 0.4 1 This table provides details of movements during performance year 2017.
For details of variable pay awards granted for 2017, please refer to both the remuneration tables above.
Share-based awards are made in HSBC shares and or linked to notional fund units in the HSBC World Selection Balanced Portfolio.
164 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
