DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT DATA BECOMES AVAILABLE JAN FEB 2018 COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE HIGHLIGHTS OF 2017 ATTENDANCE Review and adaptation of Unilevers new Reward Framework for our Executive Directors, with an emphasis on alignment with Ann Fudge strategy and long-term value creation, personal investment in Chair 6 6 Unilever shares, and simplified variable pay with safeguards Vittorio Colao 6 6 to prevent high levels of pay not justified by performance.
Marijn Dekkers 6 6 Constructive engagement with shareholders and shareholder Mary Ma Member since April 2017 3 3 representative bodies during the year in advance of the Strive Masiyiwa Member until April 2017 3 3 implementation of this new Reward Framework for our Executive Directors.
This table shows the membership of the Committee together with their Ongoing review of our Fair Compensation Framework, with attendance at meetings during 2017.
If Directors are unable to attend a particular emphasis on gender pay gap analysis and related a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda items with the Committee Chair.
Attendance is expressed as the number reporting requirements, to ensure that Unilever pays all our of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
people fairly and with responsibility, respect and integrity.
This resulted in a calculated pay-out for the 2017 bonus of 122%, LETTER FROM THE CHAIR which was endorsed by the Compensation Committee as representing a balanced assessment of the underlying performance of the business.
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, Following application of personal performance multipliers and I am pleased to present Unilevers 2017 Directors Remuneration application of the maximum bonus limits under the Remuneration Report.
Outlined below is our performance and the decisions we have Policy, an annual bonus of 200% of salary was awarded for the CEO made on remuneration.
and an annual bonus of 150% of salary for the CFO.
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE AND REMUNERATION GLOBAL SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN GSIP AND OUTCOMES FOR 2017 MANAGEMENT CO-INVESTMENT PLAN MCIP : SUSTAINED PERFORMANCE DELIVERY ANNUAL BONUS: GOOD ALL-ROUND PERFORMANCE WITH Over the past three years, Unilever has delivered consistent financial ACCELERATED VALUE CREATION performance.
During this period, underlying sales growth was 3.6% Unilever has delivered a strong set of results in 2017 with competitive per annum, and margin improvement was an average of 63 basis growth and substantially increased margin, earnings and cash-flow once points per year: Unilever also generated strong operating cash flow, more.
Unilever is on track towards its 2020 goals of growing both top line with cumulative operating cash flow of 19.1 billion.
Unilever finished ahead of markets and solid margin expansion.
This reflects the strong 4th in the peer group for total shareholder return TSR over this threefocus on the core portfolio and profitability, accelerated portfolio transition year period.
On the basis of this performance, the Committee determined with acquisitions and disposals, and a streamlined, more focused that the GSIP and MCIP awards to the end of 2017 will vest at 148% of organization.
These results demonstrate the proven multi-stakeholder initial target award levels ie 74% of maximum for GSIP, and 99% of model of long-term compounding growth and sustainable value creation.
maximum for MCIP which is capped at 150% for the Executive Directors.
The Compensation Committee aligned earnings per share and operating margin measures within the annual bonus and long-term incentive plans NEW REWARD FRAMEWORK with the change in reporting of performance measures as announced in As you know, last year the Compensation Committee undertook July 2017.
These measures are therefore assessed on an underlying basis a comprehensive review of our Reward Framework across Unilever, ie Underlying Earnings per Share UEPS and Underlying Operating consulting extensively with our shareholders.
As described in the Margin UOM within the relevant periods for 2015, 2016, and 2017 GSIP 2016 Directors Remuneration Report, the review resulted in a new and MCIP awards : for further details, please see page 67 below.
The Reward Framework, which was introduced this year below Board Committee believes that on an underlying basis the stretch within the level to support Unilevers long-term business strategy.
With strong respective Earnings per Share and Operating Margin measures is as shareholder approval, some features of the new Reward Framework demanding or more than originally set.
were implemented for Executive Directors in 2017, with full implementation deferred to 2018.
This phased approach has enabled Despite market conditions remaining challenging in 2017, underlying sales us to assess the new Reward Framework in practice and further 1 grew 3.1% 3.5% excluding Spreads, with growth in all our categories consider the feedback from investors during last years consultation.
except for Spreads, which we are in the process of divesting.
Underlying The implementation of the new Reward Framework for the Top 500 operating margin improvement of 110 basis points reflects strong savings executives below Board level has been completed successfully.
In 2018 we delivery, despite a volatile commodities market and significant currency will extend the Framework to encompass Unilevers top 3,000 managers.
For the annual bonus calculations, free cash flow FCF is In the following paragraphs, we set out proposals to align the pay of our calculated on a constant basis at 6.1 billion equivalent to the 6.0 billion Executive Directors fully with the new Reward Framework in 2018. at current rates.
For incentive outcomes FCF is adjusted to exclude the one-off pension funding contribution of 0.6 billion.
Nonetheless, even if GUIDING PRINCIPLES this pension contribution had been included, the incentive outcome would Under the new Reward Framework, the Management Co-Investment have been the same, with performance above the top of the range.
The Plan MCIP becomes the only long-term incentive.
That means cash outcome was fueled by the significant underlying operating margin executives must continuously invest their annual bonus in Unilever improvement, drive for efficiency in capital expenditure and disciplined shares through MCIP to maintain current levels of pay.
This further control of working capital.
strengthens long term executive commitment and continues to drive our executives to apply an owners mindset in everything they do.
1 These amounts do not include any Q4 price growth in Venezuela: for further details see pages 23 and 24.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 47 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED In applying this approach to Executive Directors, their pay is: Simple the compensation package comprises just three elements Summary of the Committees track record of discretion for annual bonus of fixed pay, annual bonus, and long-term incentive over the last five years Focused distinct measures drive shortand long-term incentives Year Formula Actual Adjustment based on Longer-term an extended performance horizon of five years Outcome Decision Quality of Results Driven by share ownership executives have to invest in Unilever shares to receive any long-term incentive, and must maintain a 183 140 Reduction of 43 points 2012 significant personal shareholding, including after leaving Unilever 103 95 Reduction of 8 points 2013 Restrained to continue to receive the same amount of total pay as 68 80 Increase of 12 points previously, Executive Directors must invest more in Unilever shares, 2014 and an additional test ensures that pay can only materially exceed 118 110 Reduction of 8 points 2015 the current maximum if truly justified by performance.
121 110 Reduction of 11 points 2016 The Committee has aimed to maintain comparable levels of pay for the same performance while simplifying reward, extending the performance In addition, any combined pay-out from annual bonus and MCIP horizon and requiring even higher levels of personal investment above 75% of the maximum opportunity will be subject to a further in Unilever shares.
The section Implications of the new Reward sustainability test by the Committee, described on page [4].
Framework on pages 49 and 50 demonstrate how this has been achieved.
TRANSITION TO THE NEW REWARD FRAMEWORK SUMMARY OF ELEMENTS Subject to shareholder approval of our new Remuneration Policy at the 2018 AGMs, we will transition to the new Reward Framework Element Features for Executive Directors through the following steps: Single consolidated fixed pay element, paid in cash Fixed pay final GSIP grant in February 2018 to maintain total value of Target 150% of Fixed Pay for CEO and 120% for CFO with Annual remuneration during transition, after which GSIP awards will multiplier of up to 1.5x at maximum based only on business bonus be discontinued: performance not personal performance moving to the revised level of Fixed Pay with effect from May 2018, MCIP CEO and CFO can invest up to 67% of their gross annual following the 2018 AGMs: bonus into Unilever shares which are matched based on investment of up to 67% of 2017 annual bonus based on the previous performance over four years, with no match shares at lower bonus opportunity in the four-year MCIP in May 2018 following threshold, 1.5x matching shares at Target performance and the AGMs, and vesting in February 2022 on the new 1 for 1.5 matching 3x match at Maximum basis at target: and Any combined annual bonus and MCIP pay-out above 75% Cap 2018 annual bonus awarded under the new Remuneration Policy of the maximum is subject to a further test, which requires and invested into the MCIP in 2019, vesting in 2023, subject to an the Committee to review the quality and sustainability of additional one-year retention period before vested shares can be sold.
performance, and allows them to reduce the award if appropriate.
This means that total pay-for the CEO can only These proposals, and their implications in terms of pay outcomes for reach or exceed the previous maximum level for truly Executive Directors, are set out in more detail on pages 49 to 52 below, exceptional and sustainable performance.
and in the Annual Remuneration Report on pages 63 and 64.
5x fixed pay for the CEO and 4x for the CFO to be built up Shareholding FRAMEWORK FOR FAIR COMPENSATION within five years of appointment.
100% of the requirement The Committee is aware of and takes into consideration reward continues for a year after leaving, and 50% for two years.
conditions elsewhere in the Group.
We are also aware of the developing regulatory environment on executive pay in the UK, Europe A more detailed description of the elements of the new Reward and the US, and will continue to monitor this over the coming year so Framework and a comparison with the current package is provided that we can respond to new requirements and best practice.
We have on page 51. already taken a leading position in this area, with Board oversight of wider pay and conditions being reflected through the ULSP.
We are CONVERSION TO DELIVERING PAY IN EUROS proud of the Framework for Fair Compensation introduced by Unilever Last year we explained to investors that we intend to convert the pay in December 2015 as part of ULSP: of Executive Directors to euros.
com sustainable-living  2018 Executive Directors pay will be denominated in euros plan   fairusing the average exchange rate as per our 2016 Annual Report and compensation Accounts: euro 1 GBP 0.8152.
This aligns the Executive Directors to the rest of the senior leadership Top 100 team whose pay is already Through this framework, Unilever has announced the target to achieve denominated in euros.
The illustrative values of the proposed Reward living wage compliance for all our employees globally by 2020.
In line Framework are shown below in sterling for ease of comparison with with the new Dutch Corporate Governance Code we are disclosing the current arrangements.
pay ratios for both our Executive Directors relative to the UK and Dutch management populations.
DISCRETION Following extensive discussions with key shareholders and To ensure that the outcome of formulaic incentive plans fairly reflects shareholder representative bodies, the Committee recommends the underlying performance of the business, the Committee already these proposed changes for your approval at the 2018 AGMs.
has the discretion to adjust the formulaic outcome of the annual bonus by up to plus or minus 25% to reflect its assessment of the underlying Ann Fudge performance of the business.
We now introduce the same for the new Chair of the Compensation Committee MCIP by up to plus or minus 10%.
Any such adjustment would be explained in full in the Directors Remuneration Report DRR and cannot result in an outcome greater than the plan maximum.
48 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FIXED PAY IS SIMPLIFIED IMPLICATIONS OF THE NEW REWARD Fixed Pay under the new Reward Framework consolidates salary, FRAMEWORK fixed allowance and supplemental pension into one element and incorporates a 5% increase for both CEO who last received a salary The Committee has aimed to maintain comparable levels of pay for adjustment in 2013 and CFO who received a 5% salary adjustment the same performance while simplifying reward, extending the in 2017.
The proposed fixed pay increase for the CEO is below the performance horizon and requiring even higher levels of personal average cumulative increase for the workforce over the five years investment in Unilever shares.
Unilevers Executive Directors will: since his salary was last increased.
The CFO was promoted into his 1. earn annual bonus in line with Unilevers short-term performance: current role 18 months ago on a salary below market median, and the proposed increase reflects a progressive move towards market 2. invest up to 67% of their gross annual bonus in Unilever shares, competitive levels as he becomes established in role.
which they need to hold for at least four years: % 3. earn MCIP Match shares in line with Unilevers long-term Current Proposed change performance over the four years following the annual bonus year: CEO 4. hold vested MCIP Match shares after tax for a further one-year Salary 1,010,000 1,445,979 retention period to ensure a five-year duration from grant: and Fixed Allowance 250,000 5. maintain a substantial personal shareholding throughout, and for Supplemental Pension 117,123 two years beyond, their employment.
Total Fixed Pay 1,377,123 1,445,979 5% This sequence creates an incentive plan with performance measured CFO over five years with distinct shortand long-term targets.
Salary 656,250 899,063 PROPOSED TARGET TOTAL PAY IS CLOSELY ALIGNED TO Fixed Allowance 200,000 CURRENT LEVELS BUT ONLY IF THERE IS FAR HIGHER Supplemental Pension INVESTMENT IN SHARES THROUGH MCIP Total Fixed Pay 856,250 899,063 5% Our Executive Directors will need to invest significantly more in Unilever shares through MCIP to keep their total target pay at current levels.
Personal investments in the table below are calculated at 60% of gross VARIABLE PAY IS SIMPLIFIED annual bonus the current maximum and are made after tax has been We simplify Variable Pay by discontinuing GSIP, the performance share paid, and so likely represent amounts that exceed their after-tax annual plan.
Annual bonus and MCIP are rebalanced to keep target Variable bonus.
At this far higher level of personal investment, proposed total Pay closely aligned to current levels.
MCIP converts annual bonus into target pay is 4% higher for the CEO and 2% higher for the CFO.
Effectively, a long-term shareholding as Executive Directors are eligible for the to maintain total target pay at current levels, Executive Directors must MCIP match shown below only to the extent they invest their annual invest their entire annual bonus in shares held for four years.
bonus in Unilever shares, which must be held for the four-year % duration of the MCIP cycle.
Current Proposed change % CEO Current Proposed change Personal Investment into MCIP 727,200 1,301,381 79% CEO Total Target Pay at 60% of gross Target annual bonus 1,212,000 2,168,969 annual bonus invested in Unilever Target MCIP Match 727,200 1,952,072 shares through MCIP 5,336,323 5,567,020 4% Target GSIP 2,020,000 CFO Total Variable Pay 3,959,200 4,121,041 4% Personal Investment into MCIP 393,750 647,325 64% CFO Total Target Pay at 60% of gross Target annual bonus 656,250 1,078,875 annual bonus invested in Unilever Target MCIP Match 393,750 970,988 shares through MCIP 2,890,625 2,948,925 2% Target GSIP 984,375 Modelling based on historic outcomes for annual bonus and MCIP Total Variable Pay 2,034,375 2,049,863 1% likewise showed almost identical levels of pay-out on average.
Target MCIP Match in the table above is based on investing 60% of annual We propose to increase the maximum that Executive Directors can bonus in Unilever shares through MCIP invest in Unilever shares through MCIP from 60% to 67% two-thirds As detailed in the At a Glance summary, target annual bonus becomes of gross annual bonus.
This effectively encourages Executive Directors 150% of Fixed Pay for the CEO and 120% for CFO.
Under the new Reward to nearly double their after-tax personal investment in Unilever Framework, annual bonus will be based entirely on Unilevers business shares.
If they invest at the new maximum and achieve demanding results for Executive Directors: the current personal performance shortand long-term performance targets, their total target pay multiplier within the annual bonus calculation will be discontinued.
At increases: by 8% for the CEO and by 6% for the CFO.
target, MCIP will match 1.5 shares for every 1 share purchased by an Executive Director investing annual bonus after tax in Unilever shares the current target match is 1 share.
Because personal investments in MCIP are made from after-tax income, the target MCIP Match shown above may require an individual to actually invest more than the after-tax value of annual bonus in MCIP shares which must be held for at least five years from the date of grant before they can be sold.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 49 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED INCREASED UPSIDE FOR MORE INVESTMENT IN UNILEVER RESTRAINT ON MAXIMUM PAY The Committee fully intends to continue its rigorous approach to SHARES AND HIGHER PERFORMANCE target setting and if Executive Directors were able to deliver actual The combination of annual bonus and MCIP creates a five-year performance at the top of the range over five years, we believe incentive plan with distinct shortand long-term performance targets.
investors would see the proposed maximum pay level as being fully To earn maximum pay under the new Reward Framework, Executive justified.
The Committee also notes that this higher maximum pay Directors must deliver truly outstanding performance over the full five opportunity is in line with Unilever's remuneration benchmarking years.
Firstly, they need to deliver maximum business performance peer group, although this was not a driver for setting the award level.
for annual bonus 150% of target.
Then, they must invest in Unilever To prevent high levels of pay that are not justified by performance, shares at the maximum 67% of gross maximum annual bonus.
the Committee has put a further safeguard in place.
If the result of Finally, they must deliver maximum business performance for the combined annual bonus and MCIP performance multipliers exceeds following four-year duration of the MCIP 200% of target.
If they 75% of the maximum total pay opportunity, the Committee will apply achieve this, their maximum reward under the new Reward an additional discretionary test.
To award incentive payouts above Framework is correspondingly higher than before, when performance 75% of the maximum excluding the effect of share price change and was measured over shorter periods three years for GSIP and four dividends on share awards, the Committee must review rigorously years for annual bonus followed by old MCIP.
the quality and sustainability of underlying performance and may then apply its discretion to reduce or cap the MCIP performance multiplier applicable to the two Executive Directors.
Any such review of % Current Proposed change performance above 75% of maximum will be reported in the Directors Remuneration Report.
CEO 75% of maximum incentive opportunity for the CEO under the new Personal Investment into MCIP 1,212,000 2,168,969 79% Reward Framework equates to total pay of 8.8m excluding benefits Fixed Pay 1,377,123 1,445,979 as provided under the Remuneration Policy see page 53 which is Max annual bonus 2,020,000 3,253,453 95% of the previous maximum pay level.
Therefore, as a result of this Max MCIP 1,818,000 6,506,906 safeguard, the CEO's remuneration can only reach or exceed the previous maximum if the Committee can justify this on the basis of the Max GSIP 4,040,000 0 long-term quality and sustainability of performance.
Maximum Total Variable Pay Opportunity 9,255,123 11,206,338 21% CFO Personal investment into MCIP 590,625 1,078,875 83% Fixed Pay 856,250 899,063 Max annual bonus 984,375 1,618,313 Max MCIP 885,938 3,236,625 Max GSIP 1,968,750 0 Maximum Total Variable Pay Opportunity 4,695,313 5,754,001 23% The Committee is of the view that this increased maximum opportunity is fully justified by higher risk and more stretching performance requirements: MCIP performance is now measured over four years rather than three years and so is more challenging to sustain: maximum pay requires maximum performance over five consecutive years, comprising a bonus year and subsequent four-year MCIP period, as opposed to four years currently: Executive Directors are required to hold their vested MCIP shares for one additional year ie five years from grant before they may be sold: Executive Directors must invest nearly double the amount of funds into Unilever shares, and will likely have lower take-home pay as a result, as investment is out of after-tax income: and based on historic performance outcomes for annual bonus and MCIP, the new Reward Framework would have delivered less than the current maximum pay level, and so any future reward over the current maximum will be for performance higher than in the past.
The increased opportunity therefore represents higher pay only for higher performance and risk.
50 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 AT A GLANCE: HOW THE REMUNERATION POLICY WILL APPLY TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS IN 2018 The table below sets out a summary of the new Reward Framework that will apply during the 2018 financial year subject to shareholder approval at our 2018 AGMs.
Further details are set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy on pages 53 to 62.
Current Reward Framework Proposed Reward Framework CEO CFO CEO CFO Salary GBP 1,010,000 656,250 Fixed allowance GBP 250,000 200,00 Supplemental pension GBP 117,123 1,773,772 1,102,874 Salary converted to euros Fixed Pay euros 1,238,960 805,017 Fixed allowance euros 306,673 245,339 Consolidates salary, fixed allowance and supplemental pension into one element and incorporates a 5% increase Supplemental pension euros 143,674 Annual bonus Annual bonus % of salary at Target 120% 100% % of Fixed Pay at Target 150% 120% % of salary at Maximum 200% 150% % of Fixed Pay at Maximum 225% 180% MCIP MCIP Personal investment in Unilever Shares through MCIP is matched based on Unilevers performance against long-term targets rd rd Max investment % of annual bonus 60% 60% Max investment % of annual bonus 67% 2 3 67% 2 3 1 Match Share for each Investment Share vesting in the range 1.5 Match Share for each Investment Share vesting in the range % of salary at Target 72% 60% % of Fixed Pay at Target 150% 120% % of salary at Maximum 180% 135% % of Fixed Pay at Maximum 450% 360% GSIP % of salary at Target 200% 150% GSIP discontinued after 2018 % of salary at Maximum 400% 300% Target pay: 60% annual bonus invested 5,336,323 2,890,625 Personal investment 60% annual bonus 727,200 393,750 Target pay: 60% annual bonus inv.
euros 6,829,023 3,617,425 Increase 4% 2% Personal investment into MCIP 60% annual bonus 892,051 483,010 Personal investment into MCIP 60% annual bonus 1,596,395 794,069 Increase 79% 64% rd Target pay: 67% 2 3 annual bonus invested 7,095,089 3,749,770 Increase 8% 6% rd Personal investment into MCIP 67% 2 3 annual bonus 1,773,772 882,299 Increase 99% 83% Maximum pay GBP 9,255,123 4,695,313 Maximum pay euros 11,353,193 5,579,706 Maximum pay euros 13,746,735 7,058,391 Increase 21% 23% Personal investment at maximum pay 1,486,752 724,515 Personal investment at maximum pay 2,660,658 1,323,448 Increase 79% 83% Notes: MCIP investment: to maintain focus on long-term performance through MCIP, if the annual bonus outcome is below 50% of target, participants can invest up to 50% of Fixed Pay into Unilever shares.
To avoid doubt, headline percentage figures in the table above have been rounded up where relevant, so the exact figures shown in relation to MCIP investment under the proposed reward framework reflect an individuals investment of two-thirds of annual bonus rather than exactly 67% see further on page 55.
Discretion: the Committee will have the discretion to adjust the formulaic outcome of the new MCIP, by up to plus or minus 10%, to reflect its assessment of the underlying long-term performance of the business.
Any such adjustment would be explained in full in the DRR please note that the Committee also retains the discretion to adjust the formulaic outcome of the annual bonus, by up to plus or minus 25%.
Currency: from 2018, Executive Directors pay will be denominated in euros using the ARA 2016 average exchange rate of euro 1 GBP 0.8152, as this aligns them to the rest of the senior leadership team Top 100 whose pay is already denominated in euros.
The illustrative values of the proposed Reward Framework are also shown in sterling above for ease of comparison with the current arrangements.
Four-year version of MCIP: first introduced for 2017-2020 performance cycle previously three years.
Consultation: in accordance with the new Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the Executive Directors have had the opportunity to consider and reflect on their own pay proposals.
Maximum pay: this maximum level of pay will only be delivered following a review by the Committee of the long-term quality and sustainability of performance.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 51 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED INCENTIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Performance measures for Executive Directors that will apply to MCIP and GSIP granted in 2018 and the 2018 annual bonus are as follows: ANNUAL BONUS MCIP GSIP performance measures Weight performance measures Weight performance measures Weight Underlying Sales Growth 33% Underlying Sales Growth 25% Underlying Sales Growth 25% USG USG USG Underlying Operating Margin 33% Underlying Earnings Per Share 25% Underlying Operating Margin 25% Improvement UOM UEPS growth Improvement UOM Free Cash Flow 33% Return on Invested Capital 25% Cumulative Operating Cash Flow 25% FCF ROIC COCF Sustainability Progress Index 25% Total Shareholder Return 25% USLP TSR Further details in relation to performance target ranges for the MCIP and GSIP granted in 2018 are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report on pages 63 and 64 below.
Performance target ranges for the annual bonus are considered to be commercially sensitive and will be disclosed in full in the 2018 Directors Remuneration Report.
52 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY POLICY REPORT POLICY TABLE The following sets out our new Directors Remuneration Policy the Remuneration Policy.
It fundamentally continues our existing policy principles, updated as necessary to reflect the full extension of these to our Executive Directors as set out above.
This new Remuneration Policy will be presented for approval by shareholders at the 2018 AGMs and, if approved, will apply to payments made after that date and will replace the existing remuneration policy in its entirety.
It is intended that the new Remuneration Policy will apply for three years, although the Compensation Committee may seek approval for a new policy at an earlier point if it is considered appropriate.
The supporting information section provides the rationale for any changes from the existing remuneration policy where appropriate.
FIXED PAY PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPPORTUNITY Supports the recruitment and retention of Executive Directors Any increases will normally be in line with the range of increases of the calibre required to implement our strategy.
Reflects the awarded to other employees within the Group.
individuals skills, experience, performance and role within the Increases may be above this level or applied more frequently in certain Group.
Provides a simple competitive alternative to the separate circumstances, such as: provision of salary, itemised benefits and pension.
where there is, in the Committees opinion, a significant change OPERATION in an Executive Directors scope or role: Set by the Boards on the recommendation of the Committee where a new Executive Director has been appointed to the Boards and generally reviewed once a year, with any changes usually at a rate lower than the typical market level for such a role and effective from 1 January although changes may be made at any becomes established in the role: and other time if the Committee considers that is appropriate.
where it is considered necessary to reflect significant changes Fixed pay is paid in cash and is generally paid monthly.
Fixed pay is set at an appropriate level to attract and retain The maximum aggregate increase for the current Executive Directors Executive Directors of the required calibre, taking into account: during the time in which this policy applies will be no higher than 15%.
This excludes the proposed increase to fixed pay rates for the CEO and our policy generally to pay at around the median of an CFO for 2018. appropriate peer group of other global companies of a similar financial size and complexity to Unilever: SUPPORTING INFORMATION the individuals skills, experience and performance: and Base salary, fixed allowances and for the current CEO the pay and conditions across the wider organisation.
supplemental pension accrual have been consolidated into fixed pay to substantially simplify the package.
We have introduced a formal PERFORMANCE MEASURES maximum increase into the Remuneration Policy as well as the n a. general guidance on increases set out above.
The current peer group includes AstraZeneca, BASF, Bayer, BHP Billiton, BMW XET, BP, British American Tobacco, BT, Carrefour, Centrica, Daimler XET, Danone, Diageo, GlaxoSmithKline, Henkel XET, Imperial Brands, LOral, Metro, National Grid, Nestl, Novartis, Reckitt Benckiser, Rio Tinto, Roche, Royal Dutch Shell, SABMiller, Sanofi, Siemens, Tesco, Total and Volkswagen.
The peer group used for benchmarking purposes is reviewed regularly and companies are added and or removed at the Committees discretion to ensure that it remains appropriate.
BENEFITS PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPPORTUNITY Provides certain benefits on a cost-effective basis to aid attraction Based on the cost to Unilever of providing the benefit and dependent and retention of Executive Directors.
Relocation allowances the level of such benefits would be set OPERATION at an appropriate level by the Committee, taking into account the Benefits include provision of death, disability and medical circumstances of the individual and typical market practice.
insurance cover, directors liability insurance and actual tax return preparation costs.
Other benefits may be provided in the future Social security obligation in the current CEOs country of residence where it is considered necessary by the Committee and or dependent on earnings and rates of social security.
Awards under the all-employee Unilever PLC ShareBuy Plan may be In the event that Unilever were to require an existing or new up to HMRC-approved limits.
The only change in the value of the Executive Director to relocate, Unilever may pay appropriate current benefits for single figure purposes will reflect changes relocation allowances for a specified time period of no more than in the costs of providing those benefits.
This may cover costs such as but not limited to relocation, cost of living, housing benefit, home leave, tax and PERFORMANCE MEASURES social security equalisation and education assistance.
In line with the commitments made to the current CEO upon SUPPORTING INFORMATION recruitment, Unilever pays the social security obligation in the There are no changes relative to the previous remuneration policy, other CEOs country of residence to protect him against the difference than the consolidation of the supplemental pension accrual for the current between the employee social security obligations in his country CEO into fixed pay.
The CEO received this accrual to compensate him of residence versus the UK.
for the arrangement forfeited on leaving his previous employer, which was conditional on remaining employed with Unilever to age 60 and subsequently Executive Directors are entitled to participate on the same terms retiring from active service or his death or total disability prior to retirement.
as all UK employees in the Unilever PLC ShareBuy plan.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 53 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL BONUS PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY PERFORMANCE MEASURES Incentivises year-on-year delivery of rigorous short-term financial, The Business Performance Multiplier is based on a range of business strategic and operational objectives selected to support our metrics set by the Committee on an annual basis to ensure that they annual business strategy and the ongoing enhancement of are appropriately stretching for the delivery of threshold, target and shareholder value.
These performance measures may include underlying sales growth USG, underlying operating margin The ability to recognise performance through annual bonus improvement UOM and free cash flow FCF.
enables us to manage our cost base flexibly and react to events and market circumstances.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic outcome of the Business Performance Multiplier up or down by up to plus OPERATION or minus 25%, based on results, if it believes this better reflects the Each year Executive Directors may have the opportunity to underlying performance of Unilever.
In any event, the overall Business participate in the annual bonus plan.
Executive Directors are Performance Multiplier will not exceed 150%.
The use of any discretion set a target opportunity that is assessed against the Business will be fully disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report for the Performance Multiplier of up to 150% of target opportunity at year to which discretion relates.
The Committee may introduce non-financial measures in the future Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, Executive subject to a minimum of 70% of targets being financial in nature.
Directors can invest up to a maximum of 67% of their gross Performance is normally measured over the financial year.
annual bonus into Unilever shares under the MCIP see the MCIP section on page 55.
SUPPORTING INFORMATION Ultimate remedy malus and claw-back provisions apply see Maximum opportunity has increased from 200% of base salary to 225% details on page 56. of fixed pay for the CEO, and from 150% of base salary to 180% of fixed pay for the CFO.
The increase is designed to maintain target variable OPPORTUNITY pay closely aligned to current levels.
There will no longer be a personal Target annual bonus opportunities as a percentage of fixed performance multiplier on the annual bonus, which is driven entirely by pay are: business performance for Executive Directors.
CEO 150% Other Executive Directors 120% Maximum annual bonus opportunities as a percentage of fixed pay are: CEO 225% Other Executive Directors 180% Achievement of threshold performance results in a payout of 0% of the maximum opportunity, with straight-line vesting between threshold and maximum.
54 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MANAGEMENT CO-INVESTMENT PLAN MCIP PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY PERFORMANCE MEASURES The MCIP encourages senior management to invest their The Committee sets performance measures for each MCIP matching own money into Unilever shares, aligning their interests with share award.
These will be tested over the four financial years shareholders, and focus on the sustained delivery of high starting with the financial year following the year to which the performance results over the long term.
MCIP performance measures are currently Underlying Sales Growth, OPERATION Underlying Earnings Per Share growth, Return On Invested Capital, The MCIP is a share matching arrangement whereby Executive and the Unilever Sustainability Progress Index.
Each measure has Directors can invest their own money into Unilever shares a 25% weighting.
The Committee retains the discretion to change investment shares and be awarded matching shares which these measures and or weighting for future grants, based on strategic vest at the end of a four-year performance period.
Upon vesting, priorities for Unilever at that time.
Executive Directors will have an additional one year retention period on their matching shares to ensure there is a five-year The Committee will ensure that the targets set are appropriately rigorous duration between the grant of the match shares and the first for the delivery of threshold, target and maximum performance.
date on which the vested match shares can be sold.
The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the formulaic outcome Depending on Unilevers performance, Executive Directors may of long-term business performance by up to plus or minus 10% to reflect receive up to 3 x the number the shares they have purchased provided its assessment of the underlying long-term performance.
As a further that they keep them for the duration of the four-year period.
safeguard, the Committee will apply an additional discretionary test if the result of combined annual bonus and MCIP performance multipliers Executive Directors are able to choose whether they invest in exceeds 75% of the maximum total incentive opportunity disregarding PLC or NV shares or a 50 50 mix.
Executive Directors receive a share price movements and dividend equivalents.
To award incentive corresponding number of performance-related shares matching payouts above 75% of the maximum, the Committee will review the shares.
Matching shares will be awarded in the same form as quality and sustainability of underlying performance, and may then the investment shares ie in PLC or NV shares or a 50 50 mix.
apply its discretion to reduce or cap the MCIP performance multiplier Ultimate remedy malus and claw-back provisions apply see for Executive Directors to the extent it deems it appropriate.
Any details on page 56. scale-back or cap in the MCIP performance multiple will be applied consistently to the two Executive Directors.
OPPORTUNITY Executive Directors may invest up to 67% of their gross annual SUPPORTING INFORMATION bonus into Unilever shares although in practice we anticipate that Maximum opportunity as a percentage of fixed pay has increased from the figure of two thirds will actually be used wherever practicable.
180% of basic salary to 450% of fixed pay for the CEO and from 135% of basic salary to 360% of fixed pay for the CFO to reflect that the Global The number of matching shares received at the end of the Share Incentive Plan GSIP has been discontinued and the MCIP performance period is a multiple of the number of shares invested is the only long-term incentive plan.
This significantly simplifies the into the MCIP which depends on performance as follows there overall remuneration structure and puts a strong focus on Executive is straight line vesting between each of the points below : Directors investing in Unilever shares.
Threshold 0 x There is now no minimum level of investment required previously Target 1.5 x 25% of gross annual bonus.
The maximum level of investment has Maximum 3 x increased from 60% to 67% of the gross annual bonus.
This means that The maximum possible opportunity as a percentage of fixed pay Executive Directors may have to invest a significant value of their fixed is therefore: pay or personal funds in order to access the maximum possible value under the MCIP.
CEO 450% 225% x 67% x 3 Other Executive Directors 360% 180% x 67% x 3 If Executive Directors choose not to invest in Unilever shares through the MCIP their total pay will be no more than fixed pay and annual Dividend equivalents may be earned in cash or additional shares bonus, which means their total pay will be significantly less than it is on the award when and to the extent that the award vests.
under Unilevers existing remuneration policy.
This constitutes a strong incentive for the Executive Directors to invest in the MCIP and so there is no longer a minimum investment in the MCIP.
The performance measures for the MCIP granted in 2017 have been amended to reflect some of the April 2017 initiatives to accelerate shareholder value see pages 64 and 67.
The MCIP, which operates under the plan rules approved at the 2017 AGMs, is assessed over a four-year performance period and Executive Directors have to hold any vested MCIP match shares one additional year before those shares can be sold.
This additional retention requirement on vested MCIP match shares falls away two years after Executive Directors leave Unilever.
This fully aligns the requirement for additional retention with the existing post-termination holding requirements.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 55 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ELEMENTS OF PREVIOUS POLICY THAT WILL CONTINUE MCIP and GSIP awards granted under a previous remuneration policy will continue to operate under the terms of that policy and the relevant plan rules.
Further details of the terms of the awards made are included in the Annual Remuneration Reports for their respective years.
This applies to the GSIP awards granted in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 and the MCIP awards granted in 2015, 2016 and 2017.
This provision will cease to apply once all of these awards have vested, been exercised or been forfeited as appropriate as per the relevant policy and plan rules.
Additional details are set out below.
CLAW-BACK, ULTIMATE REMEDY, DISCRETION AND FLEXIBILITY Claw-back: The Committee has discretion to reclaim or claw back some or all of the value of awards of performance-related payments to Executive Directors in the event of a significant downward restatement of the financial results of Unilever.
This includes the annual bonus together with any awards that have been made and or vested shares under the GSIP and the MCIP awards under both this Remuneration Policy and any previous remuneration policy.
This claw-back may be effected up to two years from vesting by reducing outstanding awards or requiring the return of the net value of vested awards to Unilever.
Ultimate remedy malus: Grants under the GSIP and MCIP under both this Remuneration Policy and any previous remuneration policy are subject to ultimate remedy.
Upon vesting of an award, the Committee shall have the discretionary power to adjust the value of the award if the award, in the Committees opinion taking all circumstances into account, produces an unfair result.
In exercising this discretion, the Committee may take into account Unilevers performance against non-financial measures.
The Committee may apply malus to reduce a MCIP award granted under this Remuneration Policy or to GSIP or MCIP awards granted from 2015 under any previous remuneration policy, or determine that any such award will not vest or only vest in part in the event of a significant downward restatement of the financial results of Unilever, gross misconduct or gross negligence, material breach of Unilevers Code of Business Principles or any of the Unilever Code Policies, breach of restrictive covenants by which the individual has agreed to be bound, or conduct by the individual which results in significant losses or serious reputation damage to Unilever.
The annual bonus will also be subject to malus on the same grounds as apply for MCIP awards.
This power is an addition to the normal discretion to adjust awards and the additional sustainability test outlined in the policy table.
For future awards under the MCIP, the Committee may change the terms of a performance measure or target in accordance with its terms or if anything happens which causes the Committee reasonably to consider it appropriate to do so, and may adjust the number or class of shares subject to awards if certain corporate events eg rights issues occur.
For legacy awards under the MCIP and GSIP, the Committee may change the terms of a performance measure or target during the performance period to take into account any structural changes relating to the shares or the Group eg rights issues in accordance with established market practice.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any relevant discretions notwithstanding that they are not in line with this Remuneration Policy where the terms of the payment were agreed before this Remuneration Policy came into effect or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of Unilever N. V. or PLC and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of Unilever N. V. or PLC.
For these purposes, payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
REMUNERATION SCENARIOS: OUR EMPHASIS ON PERFORMANCE-RELATED PAY It is Unilevers policy that the total remuneration package for Executive Directors should be competitive with other global companies and that a significant proportion should be performance-related.
For the remuneration scenarios below, the maximum and target pay opportunities have been chosen to be consistent with the current levels for Executive Directors.
In reviewing the appropriate level of pay opportunity for the Executive Directors, the Committee considers internal and external comparators.
Although pay is not driven by benchmarking, the Committee is aware that pay needs to be within a reasonable range of competitive practice.
The Committee notes that total target pay for the Executive Directors is between median and lower quartile for the benchmark group used by the Committee see page 53.
The Committee typically reviews, on at least an annual basis, the impact of different performance scenarios on the potential reward opportunity and payouts to be received by Executive Directors and the alignment of these with the returns that might be received by shareholders.
The Committee believes that the level of remuneration that can be delivered in the various scenarios is appropriate for the level of performance delivered and the value that would be delivered to shareholders.
The charts below show hypothetical values of the remuneration package for Executive Directors in the first full year of the policy excluding the transition year under three assumed performance scenarios.
The dotted line reflects the point above which the Committee must make a further positive determination in order for the award value to vest, in line with the additional performance test set out in the Policy.
56 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DETAILS OF FIXED ELEMENT OF REMUNERATION FOR CEO AND CFO AND ASSUMPTIONS FOR SCENARIO CHARTS Assumptions as follows for actual Executive Director pay details please see Annual Remuneration FIXED REMUNERATION Report below : Fixed pay for CEO effective from 1 May 2018 1,773,772.
Benefits assumed to be 612,296 for CEO and 23,648 for CFO.
No 2018 annual bonus payout and no vesting under the MCIP or the GSIP.
VARIABLE REMUNERATION BELOW THRESHOLD Target payout of the 2018 annual bonus 150% of fixed pay for the CEO and ON TARGET 120% of fixed pay for the CFO.
Target vesting under the MCIP 1.5 x matching shares of the target 2018 annual bonus for CEO and CFO.
Scenarios assume 67% of the gross annual bonus is invested.
Maximum payout of the 2018 annual bonus 225% of fixed pay for the CEO and MAXIMUM 180% of fixed pay for the CFO.
Maximum vesting under the MCIP 3 x matching of the maximum 2018 annual bonus for CEO and CFO.
Participants in the MCIP may choose how much they wish to invest in Unilever NOTES TO shares, up to 67% of the value of their gross annual bonus.
At this level of VARIABLE investment as shown above in the maximum scenario the participant will likely REMUNERATION have to invest all of their post-tax annual bonus and more than half of their after-tax fixed pay earned in the year depending on the individuals personal tax situation.
This would be a significant personal contribution into Unilever shares.
Dividends, dividend equivalents and share price movements are ignored for the purposes of the illustrations above.
The Committee have set a range of performance outcomes, above which the MAXIMUM Committee will review both the quality and sustainability of actual underlying THAT COULD BE performance delivery, to ensure the appropriate payout is warranted.
EARNED WITHOUT The above charts illustrate a pay outcome above which additional Committee ADDITIONAL approval may be required, being 75% of the maximum total incentive opportunity.
COMMITTEE See the MCIP section in the Remuneration Policy for APPROVAL full details.
LEGACY ARRANGEMENTS For the duration of this Remuneration Policy, entitlements arising before the adoption of this Remuneration Policy will continue to be honoured in line with the approved remuneration policy under which they were granted, or their contractual terms.
The last award under the legacy MCIP was made on 11 February 2016, relating to the annual bonus earned in 2015, which will vest on 11 February 2019.
The last award under the GSIP rules approved at the 2007 AGMs was made on 13 February 2017 and will vest on 13 February 2020.
The last GSIP award under the Unilever Share Plan approved at the 2017 AGMs was made on 16 February 2018 and will vest on 16 February 2021.
Further details of the terms of these awards can be found within the remuneration policy approved at the 2014 AGMs, and the relevant Annual Report and Accounts.
PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND THE LINK TO STRATEGY Performance measures are selected to align with Unilevers short-term performance targets and long-term business strategy objectives.
Unilevers primary business objective is to create value in a sustainable way.
Performance measures focus management on the delivery of a combination of top-line revenue growth and bottom-line profit growth that Unilever believes will build shareholder value over the longer term.
The measures chosen for the incentives will support the delivery of this objective, with distinct measures for each of the shortand longer-term incentive programmes.
For the short-term incentive, we continue to have a balanced set of performance measures in terms of sales, profitability and cash flow.
Performance measures for our long-term incentive relate to the key objectives driving long-term value creation for investors: growth in the form of USG is fundamental to our model: underlying earnings per share UEPS growth gives clear line of sight to share price via the Price Earnings multiple: sustainability USLP is at the heart of our strategy for long-term value creation: and return on invested capital ROIC is an important measure of value creation, and an appropriate measure for ULE members given their decision-making responsibility regarding merger and acquisition activity.
The following sets out the performance measures for shortand long-term incentive plans to be awarded in 2018, as well as the business performance and the behaviours that they drive.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 57 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED APPROACH TO TARGET SETTING INCENTIVE PLAN PERFORMANCE MEASURE LINK TO STRATEGY Underlying sales growth USG Clear, simple and well understood measure supporting the achievement SHORT-TERM: at constant rates of Unilevers growth ambition ANNUAL BONUS Underlying operating margin Underlines the importance of achieving increasingly profitable growth improvement UOM at current rates Free cash flow FCF Provides clear focus on the achievement of Unilevers cash generation ambition at current rates and on cost reduction Underlying sales growth USG Supports the achievement of Unilevers ambition to deliver sustainable growth LONG-TERM: compound annual growth rate over the longer term MCIP CAGR at constant rates Underlying earnings per share Provides focus on shareholder value creation through a measure which is widely UEPS growth at current rates understood and applied externally by investors in valuing companies Return on invested capital ROIC Supports disciplined investment of capital within the business and discourages acquisitions with low returns and long paybacks an especially relevant measure for members of the ULE who make investment decisions Unilever sustainability progress The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP helps to secure long-term value index USLP creation by decoupling our growth from our environmental impact, while increasing our positive social impact.
To avoid over-focus on any one element of the USLP, the progress index is an assessment made by the Committee with input from the Corporate Responsibility Committee taking into account progress towards the targets in our reported USLP scorecard.
USG at constant rates Supports the achievement of Unilevers ambition to deliver sustainable growth LONG-TERM: over the longer term GSIP UOM at current rates Underlines the importance of achieving sustainable profitable growth over the longer term Cumulative operating cash flow Provides clear focus on the achievement of Unilevers cash generation ambition and on cost reduction Relative total shareholder Provides a relative ranking of share price growth and dividend compared with return TSR a set of peer companies The Committee sets performance targets for incentive plans, taking into account internal budgets, business priorities and external forecasts so that the targets are sufficiently stretching.
Good performance results in target payout while maximum payout is only achieved for delivering exceptional performance.
58 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DIFFERENCES IN PAY POLICY GENERALLY As the Chairmans letter sets out, we now propose to bring the reward arrangements for our Executive Directors in line with those introduced in 2017 for the rest of our ULE and Top 500 managers, ie simplifying pay for this whole population into three elements: fixed pay: annual bonus: and MCIP.
The core principle of our new Reward Framework is to continue to drive an owners mindset.
All executives must now continuously invest more of their annual bonus in Unilever shares to maintain current levels of pay.
We believe this drives executives to apply an even stronger owners mindset in everything they do.
The implementation of the new Reward Framework for senior management below Board level has been a success, and we will extend the implementation in 2018 to the next layer of management to encompass Unilevers top 3,000 managers.
Accordingly, our MCIP is now the only long-term incentive for this senior population.
The new Reward Framework has been structured in a way to maintain broadly the same levels of pay for target performance, if they continue to invest 67% of their gross annual bonus in Unilever shares through the MCIP.
We plan to continue applying the principles driving these proposals to the way we pay all of our 15,000 managers, not just our senior leaders.
As a responsible employer with around 161,000 people in 113 countries as at year end, we are also very mindful of how we pay our many nonmanagement staff.
Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group based on the same principle: that reward should support our business strategy and should be sufficient to attract and retain high-performing individuals without paying more than is necessary.
Unilever is a global organisation with employees at a number of different levels of seniority and in a number of different countries and, while this principle underpins all reward arrangements, the way it is implemented varies by geography and level.
In principle, all our managers participate in the same Unilever annual bonus scheme with the same performance measures based on Unilevers overall performance.
All middle and senior management are invited to participate in the MCIP, which in 2018 will be extended to approximately 12,000 more junior managers worldwide as well.
Wherever possible, all other employees have the opportunity to participate in the global buy 3 get 1 free employee share plan called SHARES, which is offered in more than 100 countries.
Through these initiatives we will encourage all our employees fully to adopt an owners mindset with the goal of achieving our growth ambition, so they can continuously reinvest and share in the future long-term success of Unilever.
CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP When determining the pay of Executive Directors, the Committee considers the pay arrangements for other employees in the Group, including considering the average global pay review budget for the management population, to ensure that remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors remain reasonable.
Unilever employs around 161,000 people in 113 countries as at year end and, given this geographic spread and other factors, the Committee did not consider that it was appropriate to consult employees on the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors during the year.
However, Unilever takes the views of its employees seriously and on an ongoing basis we conduct the Rate-My-Reward survey to gauge the views of employees on the different parts of their reward package.
The Committee has taken note of Unilevers Fair Compensation Framework and the advanced living wage awareness initiative together with responsible supplier policies within the Group.
Over the last three years we have also offered the SHARES plan to our non-management staff around the world.
We will continue to advance these initiatives over the year ahead and beyond to enhance the livelihoods of all our employees.
com sustainable-living    fair-compensation CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee takes the views of shareholders seriously.
We maintain an open and regular dialogue with our shareholders on remuneration matters, including consulting with our largest investors and shareholder representative bodies, when we are considering making material changes to our Remuneration Policy.
Accordingly, shareholders have been consulted extensively and their views have been influential in shaping this Remuneration Policy.
Their feedback influenced our proposals in relation to the balance between fixed and variable pay, between the annual bonus and MCIP components, and the development of the additional sustainability test on payouts above set levels.
MINIMUM SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENT The remuneration arrangements applicable to our Executive Directors require them to build and retain a personal shareholding in Unilever within five years from the date of appointment with extra time granted if requirements increase significantly to align their interests with those of Unilevers long-term shareholders.
The current requirement is 5 x base salary for the CEO and 4 x base salary for the CFO.
When the new Remuneration Policy takes effect, these requirements will be measured over fixed pay.
Upon leaving Unilever, all Executive Directors will be required to maintain at least 100% of their minimum shareholding requirement for one year after leaving, and at least 50% for two years after leaving.
If the leaver has not yet met their shareholding requirements on departure they will be required to retain the shares they do own up to these limits.
Upon vesting of MCIP match shares, Executive Directors will have to wait one additional year to ensure there is a five-year duration between the grant of the Match shares and the first date on which the vested Match shares can be sold.
The additional one year retention requirement for Executive Directors after MCIP match shares vest will fall away two years after Executive Directors leave Unilever.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 59 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NEW HIRES AREA POLICY AND OPERATION The Committee will pay new Executive Directors in accordance with the approved Remuneration Policy and all its elements as set out herein Overall above.
The terms of service contracts will not overall be more generous than those of the current CEO and CFO summarised below in the service contracts paragraph.
The ongoing annual remuneration arrangements for new Executive Directors will therefore comprise fixed pay, benefits, annual bonus and MCIP.
In addition, the recruitment policy below permits the Committee to take the following actions, as appropriate, in the best interests of Unilever and its shareholders.
For internal promotions, any variable remuneration element awarded in respect of a prior role may be paid out according to its original terms.
Fixed pay Fixed pay would be set at an appropriate level to recruit the best candidate based on their skills, experience and current remuneration.
Benefits provision would be in line with the approved relevant Remuneration Policy.
Where appropriate the Executive Director may also Benefits receive relocation benefits or other benefits reflective of normal market practice in the territory in which the Executive Director is employed.
In addition, the Committee may agree that Unilever will pay certain allowances linked to repatriation on termination of employment.
Incentive awards would be made under the annual bonus and MCIP in line with the relevant Remuneration Policy.
Incentive awards In addition to normal incentive awards, additional awards may be made to align the joiner as quickly as possible with Unilevers long-term goals, and to reflect value forfeited through an individual leaving their current employer.
Transition awards Transition In the event that we were to appoint a new Executive Director, the Committees preferred approach would be to align the incoming Executive awards and Director with our own performance-based Reward Framework by requiring them to invest in Unilever shares from the outset and aligning buy-out them fully with our inflight MCIP performance cycles and targets alongside their new colleagues at Unilever, recognising that no other longawards term incentive will be vesting in their first years of employment at Unilever.
We see this as the most sustainable approach to the remuneration of incoming Executive Directors over the longer term.
To achieve this, we propose where appropriate to offer incoming Executive Directors a Transition Award TA instead of a buy-out arrangement.
The TA should normally be no more valuable than the awards foregone.
The TA permits the joiner to potentially receive matching awards under in-flight cycles of the MCIP as if they had invested a proportion of their target annual bonus into the MCIP cycles that started before they joined Unilever.
The TA bridges the lengthy gap between an incoming Executive Directors arrival and the first maturity of incentives at Unilever, after the first five-year performance horizon has been reached this role is usually played less elegantly by buy-out awards.
The TA also facilitates the new Executive Director in building the required level of personal shareholding within five years of joining Unilever.
The level of TA offered by the Committee would take into account the circumstances of the case including the value of any awards foregone at the previous employer.
A TA may be offered by the Committee for all in-flight cycles or only some.
The TA requires the incoming Executive Director to commit to a minimum level of investment in future MCIP cycles to be eligible for an equivalent level of Match shares in inflight MCIP cycles.
For example, if the incoming Executive Director has an initial target annual bonus of 100, the maximum TA the Committee may offer would be based on this level of award.
If the Executive Director commits to investing at the maximum level of 67% of annual bonus in MCIP for each of the next four years, the maximum TA award would be 67 worth of Match shares in each of up to four inflight MCIP cycles ie a total of 67 x 4 267 with vesting based on Unilevers actual performance to the vesting date and only if the Executive Director actually invests at least 67% of their annual bonus awards through MCIP for the duration of the TA.
Accordingly, the TA may be worth up to 267% of the new Executive Directors initial target annual bonus and vests 25% per year thereafter at the actual performance multiplier 0 x to 3 x for the MCIP cycle ending in the corresponding year, and so is entirely subject to Unilevers performance.
Within these limits the Committee will determine the size of the TA based on individual circumstances, with the aim that the TA should normally be no more valuable than any awards foregone.
As stated above, to be eligible for the TA, the Executive Director must invest no less than a corresponding percentage of actual annual bonus into new cycles of MCIP starting in each of the years that the TA vests.
The TA vesting in any year will be forfeited if the corresponding level of investment the new Executive Director has made into the MCIP in that year is lower than the initial commitment.
If the Executive Director elects to make a higher investment in new MCIP cycles than the initial commitment, the TA will not be increased.
A TA would normally only be offered if required to compensate an Executive Director for awards foregone.
If an Executive Director joins without the need to compensate for awards foregone, a TA generally would not be provided, other than in exceptional circumstances.
Buy-out awards The TA is the Committees preferred approach.
However, there are clearly circumstances where the TA would not be effective.
For example, for some incoming Executive Directors who are forfeiting no or low-value awards it might not be justified to make a TA in respect of every outstanding MCIP cycle.
For others, it might not be enough to facilitate departure from their current employer if they had an exceptionally large value of accrued awards, or if awards were not subject to performance conditions.
For those reasons, the Committee reserves discretion to make appropriate joining arrangements with the intention that the TA or buy-out awards in aggregate should normally be no more valuable than the awards foregone.
Accordingly, the Committee may elect to compensate Executive Directors hired from outside for any awards they lose by leaving previous employers broadly on a like-for-like basis although a TA may form part of this.
Incoming Executive Directors will be required to retain all shares vesting from any share awards until their minimum shareholding requirements have been met in full.
If a buy-out award is required, the Committee would aim to reflect the nature, timing, and value of awards forgone in any replacement awards.
Awards may be made in cash, shares or any other method as deemed appropriate by the Committee.
Where possible, share awards will be replaced with share awards.
Where performance measures applied to the forfeited awards, performance measures will be applied to the replacement award or the award size will be discounted accordingly.
In establishing the appropriate value of any buy-out the Committee would also take into account the value of the other elements of the new remuneration package.
The Committee would aim to minimise the cost to Unilever, although buy-out awards are not subject to a formal maximum.
Any awards would be broadly no more valuable than those being replaced.
60 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 SERVICE CONTRACTS POLICY IN RELATION TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SERVICE CONTRACTS AND PAYMENTS IN THE EVENT OF LOSS OF OFFICE Current Executive Directors service contracts are terminable upon notice 12 months notice from Unilever, 6 months SERVICE notice from the Executive Director, and are available for shareholders to view at the AGMs or on request from the Group CONTRACTS & Secretary.
Starting dates of the service contracts for the current CEO and CFO: NOTICE PERIOD CEO: 1 October 2008 signed on 7 October 2008 : and CFO: 1 October 2015 signed on 16 December 2015.
A payment in lieu of notice can be made, to the value of no more than 12 months fixed pay and other benefits unless TERMINATION the Boards, at the proposal of the Committee, find this manifestly unreasonable given the circumstances or unless PAYMENTS dictated by applicable law.
Executive Directors may, at the discretion of the Boards, remain eligible to receive an annual bonus for the financial OTHER year in which they cease employment.
Such annual bonus will be determined by the Committee taking into account ELEMENTS time in employment and performance.
Treatment of share awards is as set out in the section on leaver provisions, below.
Any outstanding all-employee share arrangements will be treated in accordance with HMRC-approved terms.
Other payments, such as legal or other professional fees, repatriation or relocation costs and or outplacement fees, may be paid if it is considered appropriate.
The Committee reserves the discretion to approve gifts to Executive Directors who are retiring or who are considered by the Boards to be otherwise leaving in good standing eg those leaving office for any reason other than termination by Unilever or in the context of misconduct.
If the value of the gift for any one Executive Director exceeds 5,000 it will be disclosed in the Annual Remuneration Report.
Where a tax liability is incurred on any such a gift, the Committee has the discretion to approve the payment of such liability on behalf of the Executive Director in addition to the value of the gift.
LEAVER PROVISIONS IN SHARE PLAN RULES GOOD LEAVERS AS DETERMINED BY LEAVERS IN CHANGE OF CONTROL THE COMMITTEE IN ACCORDANCE OTHER WITH THE PLAN RULES CIRCUMSTANCES Investment shares are not impacted Investment shares Investment shares may normally be disposed of in INVESTMENT by termination although they may be are not impacted connection with a change of control without causing SHARES MCIP transferred to the personal representative by termination.
the corresponding matching shares to lapse.
of the Executive Director in the event Alternatively, Executive Directors may be required of his or her death without causing the to exchange the investment shares for equivalent corresponding matching shares to lapse.
shares in the acquiring company.
Awards will normally vest following the Awards will Awards will vest based on performance at the MATCHING end of the original performance period, normally lapse time of the change of control and the Boards, SHARES MCIP, taking into account performance and upon termination.
on the proposal of the Committee, have the PERFORMANCE unless the Boards on the proposal of discretion to pro-rate for time.
Alternatively, SHARES GSIP the Committee determine otherwise Executive Directors may be required to exchange pro-rated for time in employment.
the awards for equivalent awards over shares Alternatively, the Boards may determine in the acquiring company.
that awards shall vest upon termination based on performance at that time and prorated for time in employment unless the Boards on the proposal of the Committee determine otherwise.
If an Executive Director dies, awards will vest at the time of death at the target level of vesting prorated for time in employment if the director had previously left as a good leaver.
An Executive Director will usually be treated as a good leaver if he or she leaves due to ill-health, injury or disability, retirement with Unilevers agreement or redundancy.
The Boards may decide to treat an Executive Director who leaves in other circumstances as a good leaver.
An Executive Director will not be treated as a good leaver if he or she chooses to leave for another job elsewhere unless the Boards determine otherwise, if he or she is summarily dismissed or leaves because of concerns about performance.
In deciding whether or not to treat an Executive Director as a good leaver, the Boards will have regard to his or her performance in the role.
If Unilever is affected by a demerger, special distribution or other transaction which may affect the value of awards, the Committee may allow matching shares under the current and legacy MCIP and performance shares under the GSIP to vest early over such number of shares as it shall determine to the extent any performance measures have been met and awards may be pro-rated to reflect the acceleration of vesting at the Committees discretion.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 61 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS KEY ASPECTS OF UNILEVERS 2018 FEE POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Non-Executive Directors receive annual fees from Unilever N. V. and PLC.
The Boards determine Non-Executive APPROACH TO Director fee levels, which are limited to 5,284,200 in total per year which number is based on the limits SETTING FEES as currently approved by N. V. and PLC shareholders using 2017 average FX rate 1 1.14210.
Unilevers policy is to set fees at a level which is sufficient to attract, motivate and retain high-class talent of the calibre required to direct the strategy of the business.
They are set taking into account: Unilevers Group-wide reward philosophy: the commitment and contribution expected by the Group: and fee levels paid in other global non-financial services companies based in Europe.
Unilever applies a modular fee structure for Non-Executive Directors to ensure we fairly reflect the roles and OPERATION responsibilities of Committee membership and Chairmanship.
Our basic philosophy is to pay the Chairman an all-inclusive fee.
Other Board members receive a basic fee and additional fees for being Vice-Chair, chairing or membership of various Committees.
The fees are currently split 50 50 between PLC in sterling and NV in euros.
The Boards may decide to pay fees in any other currency based on such foreign exchange rates as the Boards shall determine, provided total Non-Executive Director fees stay within the annual limits as approved by shareholders from time to time.
The 2018 fee structure can be found in the Annual Remuneration Report on page 71.
The fee structure may vary from year to year within the terms of this Remuneration Policy.
Fees are normally reviewed annually but may be reviewed less frequently.
Additional allowances are made available to Non-Executive Directors where appropriate, to reflect any additional time commitment or duties.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a personal shareholding of at least 100% of their total annual fees OTHER ITEMS over the five years from appointment.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in any of the Groups incentive plans.
All reasonable travel and other expenses incurred by Non-Executive Directors in the course of performing their duties are considered to be business expenses and are reimbursed together with any tax payable.
Non-Executive Directors also receive expenses relating to the attendance of the Directors spouse or partner, when they are invited by Unilever.
Other benefits or additional payments may be provided in the future if, in the view of the Boards, this is considered appropriate.
Such benefits and or payments would be within the total annual limits as approved by shareholders as described above.
The Committee reserves the discretion to approve gifts to Non-Executive Directors who are retiring or who are considered by the Boards to be otherwise leaving in good standing eg those leaving office for any reason other than termination by Unilever or in the context of misconduct.
If the value of the gift for any one Non-Executive Director exceeds 5,000 it will be disclosed in the Annual Remuneration Report.
Where a tax liability is incurred on any such a gift the Committee has the discretion to approve the payment of such liability on behalf of the Non-Executive Director in addition to the value of the gift.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NEW NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR HIRES In the event of hiring a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee will align the remuneration package with the Remuneration Policy as set out above.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT The terms of engagement of Non-Executive Directors are set out in letters of appointment which each Non-Executive Director signs upon appointment.
Non-Executive Directors are currently appointed for a one-year term, subject to satisfactory performance, renomination at the discretion of the Boards on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and re-election at forthcoming annual shareholder meetings.
It is Unilevers expectation that Non-Executive Directors serve for a minimum of three years.
The letters of appointment allow for Unilever to terminate a Non-Executive Directors appointment in cases of gross misconduct, bankruptcy or where the Non-Executive Director is prevented from occupying such a position by law.
The letters do not contain provision for notice periods or compensation if the Non-Executive Directors appointments are terminated by Unilever.
Non-Executive Directors may terminate their engagement upon three months notice.
Except in exceptional circumstances, the Boards will not propose Non-Executive Directors for renomination when nine years have elapsed since the date of their appointment.
Letters of appointment are available for inspection on request from the Group Secretary.
In considering appointments to the Boards, the Directors and Unilever give due consideration to the time commitment required to fulfil the role appropriately.
62 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT The following sets out how Unilevers existing remuneration policy available on our website was implemented in 2017, and how our updated Remuneration Policy set out on pages 53 to 62 will be implemented if it receives shareholder approval at the 2018 AGMs.
com ara2016 downloads existing remuneration policy set out in Annual Report & Accounts 2016 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2018 FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS If approved by shareholders, Unilevers updated Remuneration Policy will be implemented with effect from the 2018 AGMs as set out below.
If the updated Remuneration Policy is not approved, Unilevers existing Remuneration Policy as approved at the 2017 AGMs will continue to apply.
ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual fixed pay effective from Details of the rationale for the fixed pay proposals for Executive Directors FIXED PAY May 2018: can be found in the section Implications of the new Reward Framework on pages 49 and 50.
CEO: 1,773,772 CFO: 1,102,874 Implemented in line with the 2018 n a OTHER BENEFIT Remuneration Policy.
ENTITLEMENTS For 2018, the Business Performance Multiplier will be based on the Implemented in line with the 2018 ANNUAL BONUS following metrics: Remuneration Policy.
Target annual bonus of 150% of fixed pay for the CEO and 120% of fixed pay for the CFO.
Business Performance Multiplier of between 0% and 150% based on achievement against business targets over the year.
A 0% multiplier will be applied for threshold performance, and up to 150% Maximum annual bonus is 225% multiplier for maximum performance.
Performance target ranges are of fixed pay for the CEO and 180% considered to be commercially sensitive and will be disclosed in full with for the CFO.
the corresponding performance outcomes retrospectively following the end of the relevant performance year.
Performance conditions are assessed over a three-year period.
The performance Implemented in line with the 2014 GSIP 2018 conditions and target ranges for 2018 awards will be as follows: Remuneration Policy.
AWARDS Final GSIP award made on 16 February 2018 vesting 16 February 2021.
Target award 200% of base salary for the CEO based on current salary 1,010,000 and 150% of base salary for the CFO current salary 656,250.
Maximum vesting of 200% of initial award so maximum vesting of 400% of base salary for the CEO 4,040,000, and 300% of base salary for the CFO 1,968,750.
In addition, a two-year postFor the three business-focused performance conditions, 25% of target vesting retention period will awards vest for achieving threshold performance, 100% for target and 200% apply to this award beyond the for maximum performance with straight-line vesting between threshold and three-year vesting period for maximum.
For the TSR measure, 50% of the target award vests for threshold the CEO and CFO.
performance at 10th place, 100% at 7th place, and 200% vests at 3rd place a or above with straight-line vesting occurring between these points.
a For the relative TSR measure, Unilevers TSR is measured against a comparator group of other consumer goods companies.
TSR measures the return received by a shareholder, capturing both the increase in share price and the value of dividend income assuming dividends are reinvested.
The TSR results are measured on a common currency basis to better reflect the shareholder experience.
The current TSR peer group consists of 18 companies 19 including Unilever as follows: Avon Colgate-Palmolive Henkel LOral Reckitt Benckiser Beiersdorf Danone Kao Nestl Shiseido Campbell Soup General Mills Kelloggs PepsiCo Coca-Cola Este Lauder Kimberly-Clark Procter & Gamble The Committee may change the TSR vesting levels set out above if the number of companies in the TSR comparator group changes eg via M&A activity etc.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 63 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Implemented in line with the Performance conditions are assessed over a four-year period.
The performance MCIP 2018 Remuneration Policy.
conditions and target ranges for 2018 awards under the MCIP will be as follows: MCIP award to be made on [3] May 2018 vesting 16 February 2022.
Paul Polman elected to invest the value of 67% 1,353,400 of his 2017 annual bonus into the MCIP.
Graeme Pitkethly elected to invest the value of 67% 659,531 of his 2017 annual bonus in MCIP investment shares.
Matching shares are awarded based on performance up to a maximum of 3 x matching shares.
Performance at threshold results in no matching shares being awarded, target Therefore the maximum value performance results in an award of 1.5 x matching shares, up to a maximum from the matching shares for the award of 3 x matching shares, with straight-line vesting between threshold CEO would be 4,060,200 and for and maximum.
Participants are required to hold all their own investment the CFO would be 1,978,594. shares and remain employed by Unilever for the duration of the relevant performance period.
It is the Committees intention that management should be assessed against the progress they make on the USLP as a whole, rather than selected components of it.
Accordingly, each year the Committee will determine a numerical rating for the previous years MCIP Sustainability Progress Index in the range of zero to 200%, with 100% representing on-target performance: annual ratings will then be tallied as an average index for each four-year MCIP performance period.
At the end of the MCIP performance period, the Committee will disclose a full narrative setting out the performance achieved and the corresponding outcome that the Committee determines for the Sustainability Progress Index.
64 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 ULTIMATE REMEDY MALUS AND CLAW-BACK Grants under the GSIP and MCIP are subject to ultimate remedy as explained in the 2018 Remuneration Policy.
Malus and claw-back apply to all performance-related payments as explained in the 2018 Remuneration Policy.
In 2017, the Committee did not reclaim or claw back any of the value of awards of performance-related payments to Executive Directors.
SINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2017 FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below shows a single figure of remuneration for each of our Executive Directors, for the years 2016 and 2017.
Paul Polman Graeme Pitkethly CEO UK CFO UK 000 000 a 2017 2016 2017 2016 A Base salary 1,154 1,239 750 511 B Fixed allowances and other benefits 898 855 252 185 C Annual bonus 2,307 2,289 1,124 928 b b D MCIP matching shares required by UK law 2,042 1,240 285 153 Long-term incentives b b E GSIP performance shares required by UK law 5,126 2,603 704 305 Long-term incentives sub-total 7,169 3,843 989 458 F Conditional supplemental pension 134 144 - - Total remuneration paid required by UK law A B C D E F 11,661 8,370 3,115 2,082 G Share awards required by Dutch law 7,154 3,170 2,187 674 Total remuneration paid required by Dutch law A B C F G 11,647 7,697 4,313 2,298 a The figures included relate to amounts paid or payable to Graeme Pitkethly for his services from 21 April 2016 for the remainder of the year, being the date on which he was appointed as an Executive Director of the Boards of NV and PLC.
b Graeme Pitkethlys GSIP and MCIP values in the above single figure table for 2016 and 2017 include GSIP performance shares and MCIP matching shares previously granted to him in 2014 and 2015, before his appointment as an Executive Director.
The values shown for 2017 for awards granted in 2015 include gross delivery costs, including tax and social security.
Where relevant, amounts for 2017 have been translated into euros using the average exchange rate over 2017 1 0.8756, excluding amounts in respect of MCIP and GSIP which have been translated into euros using the exchange rate at vesting date of 13 February 2018 1 0.8882.
Amounts for 2016 have been translated into euros using the average exchange rate over 2016 1 0.8152, excluding amounts in respect of MCIP and GSIP which have been translated into euros using the exchange rate at vesting date of 14 February 2017 1 0.8494.
We do not grant our Executive Directors any personal loans or guarantees.
ELEMENTS OF SINGLE FIGURE REMUNERATION 2017 A BASE SALARY AUDITED Salary set in sterling and paid in 2017: CEO 1,010,000.
B FIXED ALLOWANCE AND OTHER BENEFITS AUDITED For 2017 this comprises: Paul Polman Graeme Pitkethly CEO UK CFO UK a a 2017 2017 Fixed allowance 285,525 228,420 Medical insurance cover and actual tax return preparation costs 102,238 17,130 Provision of death-in-service benefits and administration 13,952 6,518 Payment to protect against difference between employee social security obligations 496,106 - in country of residence versus UK Total 897,821 252,068 a The numbers in this table are quoted in euros translated from sterling where necessary using the average exchange rate over 2017 of 1 0.8756.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 65 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED C ANNUAL BONUS AUDITED Annual bonus 2017 actual outcomes CEO 2,020,000 which is 100% of maximum, 200% of base salary.
CFO 984,375 which is 100% of maximum, 150% of base salary.
This includes cash and the portion of annual bonus that Executive Directors have indicated will be re-invested in shares under the MCIP.
Performance against targets: Further details of the annual bonus outcomes are described in the Chair Letter on page 47.
The calculated pay-out for Unilevers 2017 performance ratio of 122% was endorsed by the Committee as representing a balanced assessment of underlying performance of the business.
Paul Polman In determining annual bonus outcomes for Paul Polman, the Committee also considered his leadership and very strong personal performance.
In 2017 Paul led Unilever to take a further step up in delivery with another year of strong topand bottom-line growth.
This consistency of performance is a key hallmark of his leadership and it has now been firmly established over the 9 years since he became CEO.
The quality of the performance in 2017 matched the strength of the results with broad-based growth across all retained Categories and strong levels of brand support and investment.
Most importantly, through a series of initiatives culminating in Connected 4 Growth C4G, announced in fall 2016, Paul has taken Unilever closer to our consumers through an organization able to respond with the agility required to compete effectively in our rapidly changing marketplace.
During the year Unilever significantly strengthened its portfolio through acquisitions and disposals.
Engagement scores have remained high 74% and Pride in Unilever remains at a remarkable 90%.
In addition to his firm internal leadership Paul continues to build Unilevers external profile and reputation, helping the Company to attract and retain key talent as a leading employer of choice across our markets worldwide.
In 2017 Paul received a number of notable awards for his business and humanitarian leadership.
As a consequence of the review of his personal performance, Paul Polman was awarded a personal performance multiplier of 140%.
This resulted in his receiving an annual bonus capped by our remuneration policy at 200% of his base salary, calculated as follows: Graeme Pitkethly In determining annual bonus outcomes for Graeme Pitkethly, the Committee considered his leadership and very strong personal commitment to the performance of the business.
In 2017, Graeme led Unilevers capital allocation, services delivery, technology investment and performance management to a year of good delivery.
Record savings through zero-based budgeting provided the flexibility to invest behind our brands and capabilities to fuel future growth while increasing our margins.
2017 was also a year of accelerated portfolio change, with several strategic acquisitions and the divestiture of the Spreads business repositioning Unilever for future growth.
Capital allocation was disciplined, with new leverage targets achieved and the Unilever NV preference shares repurchased, setting a platform for greater strategic flexibility and improved corporate governance.
In 2017, Unilever delivered a strong step up in profitability and cash flow, maintaining competitive growth, while increasing the impact of Finance and ETS across Unilever.
As a consequence of the review of his personal performance, Graeme Pitkethly was awarded a personal performance multiplier of 125%.
This resulted in his receiving an annual bonus capped by our remuneration policy at 150% of his base salary, calculated as follows: 66 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 D MCIP UK LAW REQUIREMENT AUDITED 2017 OUTCOMES This includes MCIP matching shares granted on 13 February 2015 based on the percentage of 2014 annual bonus that Paul Polman and Graeme Pitkethly had invested in Unilever shares, as well as performance in the three-year period to 31 December 2017 which vested on 13 February 2018.
Further details of the performance measures including the impact of our April 2017 toughening of performance measures to align the non-GAAP margin measure from COM to UOM are disclosed below in note E. The values included in the single figure table for 2017 are calculated by multiplying the number of shares granted on 13 February 2015 including additional shares in respect of accrued dividends through to 31 December 2017 by the level of vesting 148% of target award for the CEO and 142% of target award for the CFO and the share prices on the date of vesting NV 43.57 and PLC 37.91.
The CFOs award vested at a different level than the CEOs award as it relates to an award granted in 2015 before his appointment as an Executive Director.
Performance measures and performance against them are as set out in the table below although the weightings of the measures were different for participants below Board level, so the weightings of each measure in the award that vested for the CFO are Underlying Sales Growth at 30%, Margin Improvement at 30%, Cumulative Operating Cash Flow at 30% and TSR at 10%.
These have been translated into euros using the exchange rate on the date of vesting 1 0.8882.
E GSIP UK LAW REQUIREMENT AUDITED 2017 OUTCOMES This includes GSIP performance shares granted on 13 February 2015, based on performance in the three-year period to 31 December 2017, which vested on 13 February 2018.
The values included in the single figure table for 2017 are calculated by multiplying the number of shares granted on 13 February 2015 including additional shares in respect of accrued dividends through to 31 December 2017 by the level of vesting 148% of target award for the CEO and 142% of target award for the CFO and the share price on the date of vesting NV 43.57 and PLC 37.91.
The CFOs award vested at a different level than the CEOs award as it relates to an award granted in 2015 before his appointment as an Executive Director with the performance measures and weighting as set out under heading D above.
Performance against targets: a For details of comparator group please see page 63.
Further details of the GSIP and MCIP outcomes are described in the Chair Letter on page 47, with details of our stepped-up plans for shareholder value creation and related treatment of inflight legacy awards available on our website: www.
com ara2017 downloads Compensation Committee Statement: Alignment of Performance Measures for 2017 On the basis of this performance, the Committee determined that the GSIP and MCIP awards to the end of 2017 will vest at 148% of initial target award levels ie 74% of maximum for GSIP and 99% of maximum for MCIP which is capped at 150% for the Executive Directors.
F CONDITIONAL SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION AUDITED CEO Paul Polman : Conditional supplemental pension provision agreed with Paul Polman on hiring, which will be paid on his retirement or his death or total disability prior to retirement.
Contributions are made at the rate of 12% of capped salary which, in 2017, was 976,028, resulting in contributions of 117,123.
G SHARE INCENTIVES DUTCH LAW REQUIREMENT AUDITED As per the Dutch requirements, these costs are non-cash costs and relate to the expenses recognised for the period following IFRS 2.
This is based on share prices on grant dates and a 98% adjustment factor for GSIP shares and MCIP matching shares awarded in 2017, 2016 and 2015.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 67 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED IN THE YEAR AUDITED a a PLAN MCIP GSIP Conditional matching share award made on Conditional share award made on 17 May 2017 13 February 2017 BASIS OF AWARD Based on the level of 2016 annual bonus paid in 2017 The CEO received a target award of 200% of base salary.
invested by the CEO and CFO.
The following numbers CEO: b of matching shares were awarded on 17 May 2017 : PLC 30,532 CEO: NV 30,532 PLC 0 The CFO received a target award of 150% of base salary.
NV 26,578 CFO: CFO: PLC 14,171 PLC 5,423 NV 14,171 NV 5,423 Maximum vesting results in 200% of target awards vesting, Maximum vesting results in 150% of target awards which translates to a maximum vesting of 400% of base vesting.
salary for the CEO and 300% of base salary for the CFO.
c d MAXIMUM FACE CEO: 1,719,197 CEO: 4,095,997 c d VALUE OF AWARDS CFO: 688,694 CFO: 1,901,099 Four equally weighted long-term performance measures.
Four equally weighted long-term performance measures.
For THRESHOLD 0% of the target award vests for threshold performance.
the three business-focused metrics, 25% of the target award VESTING vests for threshold performance.
For the TSR measure, 50% % of TARGET of the target award vests for threshold performance.
AWARD 1 January 2017 31 December 2020 1 January 2017 31 December 2019 PERFORMANCE PERIOD DETAILS OF Subject to four equally weighted performance measures: Subject to four equally weighted performance measures: PERFORMANCE MEASURES Participants are required to hold all their own investment shares and remain employed by Unilever for the duration of the relevant performance period.
a Please refer to our website for restated details of the equivalent tables from page 70 of the Directors Remuneration Report 2016, which incorrectly stated performance ranges.
com ara2017 downloads Compensation Committee Statement: Alignment of Performance Measures for 2017 b Under MCIP, Executive Directors can choose whether they invest in PLC shares or NV shares or an equal number of shares in each.
Executive Directors receive a corresponding number of performance-related matching shares.
Matching shares will be awarded in the same form as the investment shares ie in PLC shares, NV shares or an equal number of shares in each.
On 17 May 2017, the CEO invested 60% 1,119,888 and the CFO invested 60% 453,750 of their 2016 annual bonus in MCIP investment shares.
The CEO elected to invest fully in NV shares.
The CFO elected to receive an equal number of shares in each of PLC and NV.
c Face values are calculated by multiplying the number of shares granted on 17 May 2017 by the share price on that day of PLC 41.54 and NV 49.25 respectively, assuming maximum performance and therefore maximum vesting of 150% for MCIP and then translating into sterling using an average exchange rate over 2017 of 1 0.8756. d Face values are calculated by multiplying the number of shares granted on 13 February 2017 by the share price on that day of PLC 32.99 and NV 38.93 respectively, assuming maximum performance and therefore maximum vesting of 200% for GSIP and then translating into sterling using an average exchange rate over 2017 of 1 0.8756.
68 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MINIMUM SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENT AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SHARE INTERESTS UNAUDITED The table below shows the Executive Directors share ownership against the minimum shareholding requirements as at 31 December 2017 and the interest in NV and PLC ordinary shares of Executive Directors and their connected persons as at 31 December 2017.
When calculating an Executive Directors personal shareholding the following methodology is used: Base salary at the date of measurement.
Shares in either Unilever PLC or Unilever N. V. or a combination of both will qualify provided they are personally owned by the Executive Director, by a member of his immediate family or by certain corporate bodies, trusts or partnerships as required by law from time to time each a connected person.
Shares purchased under the MCIP, whether from the annual bonus or otherwise, will qualify as from the moment of purchase as these are held in the individuals name and are not subject to further restrictions.
Shares or entitlements to shares that are subject only to the Director remaining in employment will qualify on a net of tax basis.
Shares awarded on a conditional basis by way of the GSIP or MCIP will not qualify until the moment of vesting ie once the precise number of shares is fixed after the three-year vesting period, or a four-year vesting period for the MCIP, has elapsed.
The shares will be valued on the date of measurement or, if that outcome fails the personal shareholding test, on the date of acquisition.
The share price for the relevant measurement date will be based on the average closing share prices and the euro sterling US dollar exchange rates from the 60 calendar days prior to the measurement date.
Executive Directors are required to hold shares to the value of 100% of their shareholding requirement for 12 months post cessation of employment at Unilever, and 50% of these shares for 24 months post cessation of employment with Unilever.
ULE members are required to build a shareholding of 400% of base salary 500% for the CEO.
This requirement is 150% of base salary for the Top 100 management layer below ULE.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THEIR CONNECTED PERSONS INTERESTS IN SHARES AND SHARE OWNERSHIP AUDITED Share ownership Actual share Shares held as at Shares held as at b b 1 January 2017 31 December 2017 guideline as % of Have guidelines ownership as a % base salary as at been met as at of base salary as at a 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 ?
31 December 2017 NV PLC NV PLC CEO: Paul Polman 500 Yes 5,293% 824,245 307,239 952,374 314,130 CFO: Graeme Pitkethly 400 Yes 641% 32,189 42,908 44,496 55,797 a Calculated based on the minimum shareholding requirements and methodology set out above and the base salaries as detailed for the CEO and CFO in section A on page 65. b 1 NV shares are ordinary 0.16 shares and PLC shares are ordinary 3 p shares.
9 During the period between 31 December 2017 and 21 February 2018, the following changes in interests have occurred: Graeme Pitkethly purchased 7 PLC shares under the Unilever PLC ShareBuy Plan: 3 on 9 January 2018 at a share price of 40.795, and a further 4 on 8 February 2018 at a share price of 38.490: and as detailed under headings D and E on page 67, on 13 February 2018: Paul Polman acquired 46,878 NV shares following the vesting of his 2015 MCIP award, and 116,972 NV shares following the vesting of his 2015 GSIP award, in accordance with his share choice to receive 100% NV shares on the vesting of these awards: and Graeme Pitkethly acquired 3,454 PLC shares following the vesting of his 2015 MCIP award, and 4,966 NV shares and 5,013 PLC shares following the vesting of his 2015 GSIP award.
The voting rights of the Directors Executive and Non-Executive and members of the ULE who hold interests in the share capital of NV and PLC are the same as for other holders of the class of shares indicated.
As at 21 February 2018 none of the Directors Executive and Non-Executive or other ULE members shareholdings amounted to more than 1% of the issued shares in that class of share, excluding the holdings of the Leverhulme Trust and the Leverhulme Trade Charities Trust, which amounted to 5.7%.
All shareholdings in the table above are beneficial.
In addition, 68,531,182 shares are held by the Leverhulme Trust and 2,035,582 shares are held by the Leverhulme Trade Charities Trust, of which Paul Polman is a director.
INFORMATION IN RELATION TO OUTSTANDING SHARE INCENTIVE AWARDS As at 31 December 2017, Paul Polman held awards over a total of 316,539 shares which are subject to performance conditions, and Graeme Pitkethly held awards over a total of 94,313 shares which are subject to performance conditions.
There are no awards of shares without performance conditions and no awards in the form of options.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 69 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED MANAGEMENT CO-INVESTMENT PLAN AUDITED The following conditional shares vested during 2017 or were outstanding at 31 December 2017 under the MCIP: Balance of Balance of conditional shares Conditional shares conditional shares a at 1 January 2017 awarded in 2017 at 31 December 2017 Dividend Performance shares Additional period accrued shares Share Original 1 January 2017 to Price at during Vested in earned in Price at Shares No.
Awards are all subject to continued employment and maintenance of the underlying investment shares.
Under MCIP, Executive Directors are able to choose whether they invest in PLC or NV shares or an equal number of shares in each.
On 17 May 2017, Paul Polman and Graeme Pitkethly each invested in the MCIP 60% of their annual bonus earned during 2016 and paid in 2017, and received a corresponding award of matching shares which will vest, subject to performance, on 16 February 2021. b This includes a grant of 41,775 NV shares made on 14 February 2014 70% of which vested on 14 February 2017, a grant of 29,128 NV shares made on 13 February 2015 which vested on 13 February 2018, a grant of 39,318 NV shares made on 11 February 2016 vesting 11 February 2019, and 6,502 NV shares from reinvested dividends accrued in prior years in respect of awards.
c This includes grants that were made to Graeme Pitkethly before his appointment as Executive Director on 21 April 2016, being a grant of 2,139 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 14 February 2014 84% of which vested on 14 February 2017, a grant of 2,215 PLC shares made on 13 February 2015 vesting 13 February 2018, a grant of 4,912 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 11 February 2016 vesting 11 February 2019, and 318 NV shares and 499 PLC shares from reinvested dividends accrued in prior years in respect of awards.
d Reflects reinvested dividend equivalents accrued during 2017 and subject to the same performance conditions as the underlying matching shares.
e The 14 February 2014 grant vested on 14 February 2017 at 70% for Paul Polman and 84% for Graeme Pitkethly.
In accordance with Unilevers existing remuneration policy, Executive Directors are able to choose whether they receive any shares due to vest under MCIP in PLC or NV shares or an equal number of shares in each.
Paul Polman elected for share choice and chose to receive his shares in the form of 100% NV shares, and Graeme Pitkethly elected to receive his shares in the form of an equal number of shares in each of PLC and NV.
com ara2016 downloads existing remuneration policy set out in Annual Report & Accounts 2016 GLOBAL SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN AUDITED The following conditional shares vested during 2017 or were outstanding at 31 December 2017 under the GSIP: Balance of Balance of conditional shares Conditional shares conditional shares a at 1 January 2017 awarded in 2017 at 31 December 2017 Dividend Performance shares Additional period accrued shares Share Original 1 January 2017 to Price at during Vested in earned in Price at Shares No.
The 2017 award was made on 13 February 2017 vesting 13 February 2020. b This includes a grant of 43,700 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 14 February 2014 70% of which vested on 14 February 2017, a grant of 36,497 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 13 February 2015 vesting 13 February 2018, a grant of 35,115 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 11 February 2016 vesting 11 February 2019, and 6,999 NV shares and 7,817 PLC shares from reinvested dividends accrued in prior years in respect of awards.
c This includes grants that were made to Graeme Pitkethly before his appointment as Executive Director on 21 April 2016, being a grant of 4,263 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 14 February 2014 84% of which vested on 14 February 2017, a grant of 3,216 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 13 February 2015 which vested on 13 February 2018, a grant of 16,297 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 11 February 2016 vesting 11 February 2019, and 976 NV shares and 1,098 PLC shares from reinvested dividends accrued in prior years in respect of awards.
d Reflects reinvested dividend equivalents accrued during 2017, subject to the same performance conditions as the underlying GSIP shares.
In accordance with Unilevers existing remuneration policy, Executive Directors are able to choose whether they receive any shares due to vest under GSIP in PLC or NV shares or an equal number of shares in each.
Paul Polman elected for share choice and chose to receive his shares in the form of 100% NV shares.
Therefore, upon vesting, his 14 February 2014 PLC award was cancelled and converted and delivered to him as 33,749 NV shares resulting in a total vesting for the 14 February grant of 67,186 NV shares.
Graeme Pitkethly elected to receive his shares in the form of an equal number of shares in each of PLC and NV.
com ara2016 downloads existing remuneration policy set out in Annual Report & Accounts 2016 On 16 February 2018, under the GSIP Paul Polman received an award of 26,209 NV and 26,209 PLC performance-related shares, and Graeme Pitkethly received an award of 12,772 NV and 12,772 PLC performance-related shares.
70 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS Starting dates of our Executive Directors service contracts: Paul Polman: 1 October 2008 signed on 7 October 2008 : and Graeme Pitkethly: 1 October 2015 signed on 16 December 2015.
Service contracts are available to shareholders to view at the AGMs or on request from the Group Secretary, and can be terminated with 12 months notice from Unilever or six months notice from the Executive Director.
A payment in lieu of notice can be made of no more than one years base salary, fixed allowance and other benefits.
Other payments that can be made to Executive Directors in the event of loss of office are disclosed in our existing Remuneration Policy which is available on our website, and in our Remuneration Policy detailed above in the event of its approval by shareholders.
com ara2016 downloads existing remuneration policy set out in Annual Report & Accounts 2016 PAYMENTS TO FORMER DIRECTORS PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AUDITED There have been no payments to former Directors or payments for loss of office during the year.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2018 FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Committee reviewed Non-Executive Director fee levels in 2017 against established external benchmarks, and noted that fee levels had essentially remained unchanged for six years with the exception of Chairman and Vice Chairman fee levels, which had been adjusted on succession in those positions.
Accordingly, the Committee recommended updating Non-Executive Director fee levels as set out in the table below, to be implemented with effect from the 2018 AGMs with fees paid 50% by each of Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC, at a constant GBP:EUR exchange rate of 1 1.2817 : Current Proposed Revised Revised Roles and responsibilities Annual Fee Increase p. a.
Annual Fee Annual Fee Basic Non-Executive Director Fee 75,000 10,000 85,000 108,949 Chairman all inclusive 600,000 25,000 625,000 801,092 Vice Chairman modular 30,000 10,000 40,000 51,270 Member of Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee 10,000 5,000 15,000 19,226 Member of Compensation Committee 10,000 5,000 15,000 19,226 Member of Corporate Responsibility Committee 10,000 5,000 15,000 19,226 Member of Audit Committee 15,000 5,000 20,000 25,635 Chair of Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee 20,000 10,000 30,000 38,452 Chair of Compensation Committee 20,000 10,000 30,000 38,452 Chair of Corporate Responsibility Committee 20,000 10,000 30,000 38,452 Chair of Audit Committee 30,000 10,000 40,000 51,270 All reasonable travel and other expenses incurred by Non-Executive Directors in the course of performing their duties are considered to be business expenses.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 71 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION IN 2017 FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below shows a single figure of remuneration for each of our Non-Executive Directors, for the years 2016 and 2017.
Includes basic Non-Executive Director fee and Committee chairmanship and or membership.
b The only benefit received relates to travel by spouses or partners where they are invited by Unilever.
c Chairman with effect from 21 April 2016. d Chairman until 21 April 2016. e Chair, Corporate Responsibility Committee from 27 April 2017. f Vice Chairman and Chair of the Compensation Committee.
g Chair, Corporate Responsibility Committee until 27 April 2017 retired from the Boards at the April 2017 AGMs.
h Retired from the Boards at the April 2016 AGMs.
j Chair, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
We do not grant our Non-Executive Directors any personal loans or guarantees, nor are they entitled to any severance payments.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES AUDITED Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a personal shareholding of at least 1 x their annual fees over the five years from 1 January 2012 or appointment if later.
The table shows the interests in NV and PLC ordinary shares of Non-Executive Directors and their connected persons as at 31 December 2017.
There has been no change in these interests between 31 December 2017 and 21 February 2018 other than Laura Cha, who bought 2,000 NV shares on 2 February 2018 at a share price of 47.11.
72 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT All Non-Executive Directors were reappointed to the Boards at the 2017 AGMs, with the exception of Louise Fresco who retired from the Boards in 2017.
Date first appointed Effective date of a Non-Executive Director to the Board current appointment Marijn Dekkers 21 April 2016 27 April 2017 Nils Andersen 30 April 2015 27 April 2017 Laura Cha 15 May 2013 27 April 2017 Vittorio Colao 1 July 2015 27 April 2017 Louise Fresco 14 May 2009 n a Ann Fudge 14 May 2009 27 April 2017 Judith Hartmann 30 April 2015 27 April 2017 Mary Ma 15 May 2013 27 April 2017 Strive Masiyiwa 21 April 2016 27 April 2017 Youngme Moon 21 April 2016 27 April 2017 John Rishton 15 May 2013 27 April 2017 Feike Sijbesma 1 November 2014 27 April 2017 a The unexpired term for all Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment is the period up to the 2018 AGMs, as they all, unless they are retiring, submit themselves for annual reappointment.
OTHER DISCLOSURES RELATED TO DIRECTORS REMUNERATION SERVING AS A NON-EXECUTIVE ON THE BOARD OF ANOTHER COMPANY Executive Directors serving as non-executive directors on the boards of other companies are permitted to retain all remuneration and fees earned from outside directorships subject to a maximum of one outside listed directorship see Independence and Conflicts on page 35 for further details.
Paul Polman is a non-executive director of DowDuPont Inc. formerly The Dow Chemical Company and received an annual fee of 102,399 $115,000 based on the average exchange rate over the year 2017 of 1 $0.8904.
In addition, he received a restricted award of 2,750 ordinary shares with a nominal value of $2.50 per share in the capital of DowDuPont Inc.
The shares include the rights to vote and to receive dividends thereon.
The shares cannot be sold or transferred until Paul Polman leaves the board of directors of DowDuPont Inc. and in any case not earlier than 12 May 2019.
NINE-YEAR HISTORICAL TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR PERFORMANCE The graph below includes: growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over nine years FTSE 100 comparison based on 30-trading-day average values: and growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 investment over nine years AEX comparison based on 30-trading-day average values.
The Committee has decided to show Unilevers performance against the FTSE 100 Index, London and also the Euronext 100 index AEX, Amsterdam as these are the most relevant indices in the UK and the Netherlands where we have our principal listings.
Unilever is a constituent of both these indices.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 73 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED CEO SINGLE FIGURE NINE-YEAR HISTORY The table below shows the nine-year history of the CEO single figure of total remuneration: 2017 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CEO Single figure of total remuneration 000 3,859 6,292 6,010 7,852 7,740 9,561 10,296 8,370 11,661 Annual bonus award rates against maximum opportunity 82% 80% 68% 100% 78% 66% 92% 100% 92% GSIP performance shares vesting rates against maximum opportunity n a 47% 44% 55% 64% 61% 49% 35% 74% MCIP matching shares vesting rates against maximum opportunity n a n a n a n a n a 81% 65% 99% 47% Share Matching Plan vesting rates against a maximum opportunity 100% 100% n a n a n a n a n a n a n a a Shown in year of award.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CEO CFO The table below shows the percentage change from 2016 to 2017 for base salary, bonus and benefits excluding pension for the CEO, CFO and all UK and Dutch management in Unilever.
The subset of UK and Dutch management has been used as a fair representation of our dual listing status.
Benefits not including % change from 2016 to 2017 Salary Bonus pension a b CEO -6.9% 0.8% 5.0% a c CFO -2.2% 21.1% -5.5% d UK and Dutch management 3.0% 31.4% 5.6% a Calculated using the data from the Executive Directors single figure table on page 65 for information on exchange rates please see the footnotes in that table.
b It is noted that although the CEOs salary has decreased in the above table, this is due to currency movements, rather than any change in remuneration amounts, as his salary denominated in sterling remained the same in 2016 and 2017. c To enable meaningful comparison of the CFOs pay between 2016 and 2017, the CFOs 2016 salary and benefits as disclosed in the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report, page 67 have been extrapolated to cover the whole year from 1 January to 31 December 2016, notwithstanding that Graham Pitkethly was only appointed as an Executive Director of the Boards of NV and PLC and paid as such with effect from 21 April 2016.
The CFOs year-on-year change in bonus is driven by a higher bonus performance ratio and higher personal performance multiplier for 2017. d Figures for UK and Dutch management have also been affected by significant changes in the average sterling:euro exchange rates for 2016 and 2017, and a higher bonus performance ratio with benefits also increasing due to the introduction of the new Reward Framework for our Top 500 managers in 2017.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CEO CFO PAY RATIO COMPARISON The table below provides a more detailed breakdown of the fixed and variable pay elements excluding pension for each of our UK and Dutch management Work Levels, showing how each management Work Level compares to the CEO and CFO in 2017 with equivalent figures from 2016 included in the adjacent table for comparison purposes.
74 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Figures for the CEO and CFO are calculated using the data from the Executive Directors single figure table on page 65.
To enable meaningful comparison of the CFOs pay between 2016 and 2017, the CFOs 2016 salary and benefits as disclosed in the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report, page 67 have been extrapolated to cover the whole year from 1 January to 31 December 2016, notwithstanding that Graeme Pitkethly was only appointed as an Executive Director of the Boards of NV and PLC and paid as such with effect from 21 April 2016: we have used the CFOs actual variable pay figures for the relevant years which reflect his lower awards and vesting rates for GSIP and MCIP prior to being promoted to CFO, as set out on page 67 above for 2017 and in the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report, page 69.
We have applied a similar approach for WL6, calculating averages based on actual variable pay awards and corresponding vesting rates.
Variable pay figures for our other management Work Levels WL2-5 are calculated using: target annual bonus values multiplied by the actual bonus performance ratio for the respective year so disregarding personal performance multipliers, which equal out across the population as a whole : target GSIP values multiplied by the actual GSIP performance ratio for the respective year, based on closing share prices on the vesting date : and MCIP values calculated at an average 45% investment of bonus for WL3 employees and 60% for WL4-5 employees with vesting again at actual MCIP performance ratio, based on closing share prices on the vesting date.
Changes in pay ratios between 2016 and 2017 reflect a higher bonus performance ratio in 2017 122%, compared to 110% in 2016, and higher GSIP and MCIP vesting outcomes which play an increasing part in total reward from WL3 upwards, particularly with the introduction of the new Reward Framework for our WL4-6 employees in 2017.
As the new Reward Framework is rolled out to WL3 employees and an invitation to participate in MCIP is extended to WL2 employees in 2018, we expect to see this reflected in future charts accordingly.
Year-on-year comparisons also reflect significant changes in the average sterling:euro exchange rates for 2016 and 2017: where relevant, amounts for 2017 have been translated using the average exchange rate over 2017 1 0.8756, and amounts for 2016 have been translated using the average exchange rate over 2016 1 0.8152.
For this comparison, pension costs have been excluded for UK and Dutch management staff because these include some defined benefit pension plan elements, the actual cost of which to the company varies year by year.
For the Executive Directors, pension costs are a proportionately smaller element of the total compensation package see single figure table on page 65 than for UK and Dutch management staff.
Excluding pension costs in this comparison consequently increases the pay ratio relative to WL2-4.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The chart below shows the relative spend on pay compared with dividends paid to Unilever shareholders and underlying earnings.
Underlying earnings represent the underlying profit attributable to Unilever shareholders, adjusted to eliminate various items, and provides a good reference point to compare spend on pay.
In calculating underlying profit attributable to shareholders equity, net profit attributable to shareholders' equity is adjusted to eliminate the post-tax impact of non-underlying items in operating profit and any other significant unusual terms within net profit but not operating profit see note 7 on page 107 for details.
THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE The Committees membership was further refreshed in 2017.
Ann Fudge Chair, Marijn Dekkers and Vittorio Colao all served throughout this period, while Strive Masiyiwa stepped down from the Committee on 27 April 2017, with his place being taken by Mary Ma on the same date.
The Committee reviewed its terms of reference during the year.
The Committees revised terms of reference are contained within The Governance of Unilever, and are also set out on our website.
com investor-relations  As part of the Board evaluation carried out in 2017, the Boards evaluated the performance of the Committee.
The Committee also carried out an assessment of its own performance in 2017.
While overall the Committee members concluded that the Committee is performing effectively, the Committee has agreed to further enhance its effectiveness by reviewing progress in implementing the new Reward Framework below senior management levels, adding a knowledge session for HR compensation strategy for 2018, and considering the skill mix of members in the context of Committee Chair succession.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 75 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ADVISERS While it is the Committees responsibility to exercise independent judgement, the Committee does request advice from management and professional advisers, as appropriate, to ensure that its decisions are fully informed given the internal and external environment.
The Committee appointed Tom Gosling of  PwC following a tender process to provide independent advice on various matters it considered.
During 2017, the wider PwC firm has also provided tax and consultancy services to Unilever including tax compliance, transfer pricing, other tax-related services, contract compliance reviews, internal audit advice and secondees, third-party risk and compliance advice, cyber security advice, sustainability assurance and consulting: PwC has also been assisting with financial due diligence on M&A transactions undertaken by the Unilever Group.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK, which is available online.
com Code of Conduct: Executive Remuneration Consulting The Committee is satisfied that the PwC engagement partner and team, which provide remuneration advice to the Committee, do not have connections with Unilever N. V. or Unilever PLC that might impair their independence.
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
The fees paid to PwC in relation to advice provided to the Committee in the year to 31 December 2017 were 59,400.
This figure is calculated based on time spent and expenses incurred for the majority of advice provided, but on occasion for specific projects a fixed fee may be agreed.
During the year, the Committee also sought input from the CEO Paul Polman, the Chief Human Resources Officer Leena Nair and the EVP Global Head of Reward Peter Newhouse on various subjects including the remuneration of senior management.
No individual Executive Director was present when their own remuneration was being determined to ensure a conflict of interest did not arise, although the Committee has separately sought and obtained Executive Directors own views when determining the amount and structure of their remuneration before recommending individual packages to the Board for approval.
The Committee also received legal and governance advice from the former Group Secretary Tonia Lovell and General Counsel - Executive Remuneration & Employment Margot Fransen.
SHAREHOLDER VOTING Unilever remains committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
In the event of a substantial vote against a resolution in relation to Directors remuneration, Unilever would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote and would set out in the following Annual Report and Accounts any actions in response to it.
The following table sets out actual voting in respect of our previous report: Voting outcome % of votes For Against a 2016 Directors Remuneration Report excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy 2017 AGM PLC 98.14% 1.86% b 2016 Directors Remuneration Policy 2017 AGM PLC 95.83% 4.17% c 2016 Directors Remuneration Policy 2017 AGM NV 97.90% 2.10% a 7,780,454 votes were withheld approximately 0.61% of share capital.
b 1,634,396 votes were withheld approximately 0.13% of share capital.
c 131,936,737 votes were withheld approximately 7.05% of share capital.
The Directors Remuneration Report is not subject to a shareholder vote in the Netherlands.
It has been approved by the Boards, and signed on their behalf by Ritva Sotamaa, Chief Legal Officer and Group Secretary.
76 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017
